ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e25	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e36	I have to admit that when I took on the role of spokesman for this case, I had the ambition to make a different article than I can do today. Shipping is one of Norway's most important industries. Norway is the third largest shipping nation in the world, and the maritime cluster here in the country is the most complete in the world. This industry is also one of our most important district industries. Nevertheless, we in Norway have not succeeded in creating a stable and sustainable framework for this industry. Since the last Stortinget had a report on shipping for treatment, in 1996, there have been more than 20 proposals for changes to the framework conditions. The various support schemes have almost been a repetition of the annual budgetary negotiations. It goes without saying that such unstable framework conditions have made shipping difficult from Norway. The problem has been exacerbated by the fact that, in the same period, through cooperation in the EU, our neighbouring countries have led a completely different and much more offensive policy for their maritime industries. I had hoped that today we could have put this part of the story behind us, that the Storting, or at least a plurality on the Stortinget, would have gathered about a scheme that would have given stability and a good situation, a set-up roughly in line with what one has achieved in the EU. The signals from the Minister of Industry have been the same. He has spoken hot for a broad settlement. Today, we should only note that this was not the case, rather we should be able to conclude that uncertainty has increased during the treatment of this matter. In spite of this, I will first concentrate on what is still positive, and which collects digestion. Last winter, representatives from the Workers' Party put forward a proposal to pay net pay to the offshore fleet. This was confirmed by Stortinget last year and introduced from 1 July last year. I'm glad the Government doesn't take a new turn on that matter. In fact, it's now a co-consultant committee that goes in to reschedule our offshore. We must therefore be able to establish that this part of the maritime industry has been given its framework conditions, and these are now similar to those of its competitors. The Labour Party supports the proposal by the Government to harmonise the tax conditions of the Norwegian fleets with those of the EU. The government will come back with concrete proposals for this in connection with the budget for next year, but I would also like to say here that the framework conditions are reasonably well clarified. The majority will open the Innovation Norway scheme for the shipbuilding industry. This is positive, but of course it requires resources to be available at the entries. Until 1 January 1997, Norway had its own guarantee scheme for building loans on ships. Since she was retired, it has become more difficult to obtain the necessary funding. At the same time, we know that other Nordic countries have such arrangements. I am therefore pleased to be able to revisit this loan scheme. Such a scheme does not cost the state anything, but is important to ensure Norwegian shipyard conditions in line with the competitors. This can provide new jobs and sorely needed jobs for Norwegian yard workers. The majority also want GIEK to play a more active role than today. The majority will have a more offensive policy when it comes to research and innovation for the maritime industry. The Maritime Competence Fund is being continued. In other areas, however, there are not multiples. Quite rightly, the government is getting support from SV to terminate the arrangements that our foreign trips have today. There is also a multiple against asking the Government to stop the proposal for changes to the foreign policy. When it comes to the support arrangements for the rest of NOR and NIS, these are completely undecided. While the aim of this message was to clarify the framework conditions for the maritime industry in Norway and to relax about them, the opposite has been the result for many parts of the industry. This creates new uncertain and new concerns, not least for those added, who are afraid of their jobs, and who are now facing an uncertain future. Once again, the framework conditions will be part of the annual draft treaty on the state budget. Once again, lobbying towards growth and government will be an important part of the industry’s activity. The Labour Party and I had a sincere wish that it would be possible to get a broad deal about shipping here today. As a case spokesman, I have tried to gather support for such a settlement. Unfortunately, I have to say that there was no basis for this. We in the Workers' Party have had no locked positions or absolute demands for which we had to have an impact, but we have been busy getting solutions that would also apply to our foreign travel and, not least, ordinary crews in the rest of the NOR fleet. It was soon made clear that the government would run so-called slack in this case - so get some support here and some support there, and in that way get an impact on the Government's plan. Today, we have to conclude that this slump trip led to very few port passages, which led to a crash and fall, and we have to be able to establish that the government did not come to an end. The government could choose another procedure, it could choose to stick to one party, or some of the parties, and try to create a whole series of schemes with this or these. I would like to remind you that when the government of Stoltenberg proposed changes to the petroleum policy in the previous period, it was able to make an impact on exactly what was put forward by obtaining support from different parties. However, the Labour Party chose to make a broad comparison with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, simply because we thought it would give greater stability. Of course, even if a case spokesperson has a responsibility to solve a case in the port, it is his government's responsibility to get through the matters she has put forward. Of course, it also applies in this case. I have to say that it surprises me how little has been done by the Government and the government to get a pass for their own arrangements, or to get a common alternative. Before the message arrived, a newspaper article said that the Minister of Industry would discuss the content of the message with the opposition party before being presented - this is a broad solution. In retrospect, we can see that the Labour Party was never invited to such a discussion. However, it is more surprising that the Minister of Industry did not take any initiative against the Labour Party after the message was presented. The notification has good results on the position of the maritime industry in Norway, on developments in the EU and internationally. In some other areas, we get good facts when we read the government message. But in one area the message is particularly deficient, and it is in the area of costs. Some estimates have been made by correspondence between the Committee and the State Council. I still lack a more thorough discussion of this topic. For example, how much does it cost? the model of competence? What is the cost of making it active only for NOR or for NIS? Is it true that the cuts in the arrangements for foreign ferries only have a saving effect? It's e.g. so that today the Color Line system pays close to 150 million. kr in tax. Will these tax revenues be affected by a loss of the arrangements they have today? This and other questions should be better dealt with, so that the Storting had a better basis for taking its decisions. This lack of an overview of the costs of the different schemes has made it difficult to determine the proceeds of different models. When there is no common solution for shipping today, we in the Labour Party have chosen to keep up our primary position, that we first have to take care of the arrangements we have today, so pay the rest of the NOR fleet and then expand with the NIS competence model. As I have said before, I am very disappointed that it has not been possible to get a comprehensive configuration of the setting. As a last almost desperate attempt, therefore, the Labour Party has created a new proposal for compromise, which I will present here in the Chamber today. This is an alternative scheme to the one that has a doctor there before. This option has a cost that should make it possible to collect support if there is a willingness to do so. In my view, a non-debt on the cost can be if you choose to vote against this proposal. Finally, I would like to make the suggestions that the Workers' Party has with SV in the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e82	The representative of Olav Aksensen has taken up the proposals he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e87	The case-speaker pointed out in its article below the throne for a broad settlement in this matter. In the media I have seen that he has said that it should be possible for ten years to come. Nevertheless, the Labour Party chooses not to support the Government's model of competence, but to pass on today's schemes and to add to them the whole framework that the Labour Party had for these purposes when the Axis itself put into government. So the working party chooses to bet on a model that, over the ten years it has existed, has changed a dozen times, as Akselsen himself said in his article. Does the representative Akssen think this is a good contribution to a stable framework for maritime industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e96	I have a lot of understanding of the Right Party and the Government Party's concerns about the proceeds of the different regimes. However, I would like to ask the government party to be a little careful with its own rhetoric, given the prehistory of this matter, not least in the previous period, where there were no limits to how much the government party would do when it came to establishing this industry's framework conditions in line with what is in the EU. What the Labour Party has wanted in this matter, and which has been the line all the way back from us, is to get a gradual extension of these arrangements, so that we would have similar arrangements in Norway as in the EU. Therefore, this principle of equality has been decisive for us. And then, of course, a responsible party like the Labour Party has to take care of the costs of the different capitals, and that's what has made us step forward. We've done it this way that we've picked up the different groups of vessels that we've been saying that the need for it has been acute, by first taking the ferries, so the offshore fleet, and now we want to expand it to the rest of the NOR. It's defensive, and it should have our collectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e103	The rapporteur has expressed doubts to the media that we are unable to achieve calm and stability for the Norwegian shipping industry when dealing with this maritime communication. He has also stated that it is doubtful that the ferry companies will now be phased out and that they will not be able to find a solution for coastal shipping and for other categories of vessels. We have had a number of investigations, including: the European Maritime Benchmark research project, which shows that if we do not improve the framework conditions in Norway, growth in the other European shipping countries will be much greater. Stakeholders in Norway will work more closely where growth takes place and where decisions are made. My question to the case rapporteur is: What does he think, with the background he has by having been the case rapporteur, that the long-term consequences and effects for Norwegian shipping are now going to be if this setting remains?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e112	I have previously compared this industry to the oil industry, which is Norway's most important industry, where Norway has very good results to show. I believe that one of the reasons for this is that we have reached a broad oil policy compromise, which has been independent of government options and which has been overdue. It is my ambition that Norway should also be the second most important industry, the maritime industry. I thought that today, or in connection with the processing of this message, we would have a possibility window, so that we could get it done. Now, unfortunately, the situation for the maritime industry after processing this message is more unresolved than before. The disadvantage of this is, of course, that there will be new uncertainties. The advantage is that the Storting will have to come back and deal with these different issues, and then the result of that will actually be what determines future for this industry. I understand very well the frustration that is spreading in the industry these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e119	I'm very surprised by the representative Aksensen's contribution to getting a broad deal, because the case-speaker knows that it's not right, what he says, that the government party has not had the will to talk. What we've said is that we don't have more money than what's in the frame of it already. And on the Storting there are no multiples to spend more than $1 billion, which is three times as much as the Working Party was involved and used when they were in government. One billion is a very high amount. So if the Axis really would have cooperated to make a compromise, he would have seen that there aren't multiples to spend more money. We were willing to discuss content and re-priorities, but we realized that the Labour Party was more concerned with self-profiling than getting to a compromise. Because the Axis is busy with stability, what to do is to reduce and resolve in the long term, for example. the taxes on wealth, which will mean a lot to this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e126	The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and everyone else who had to listen to this here, could be 100 pst. make sure that I would be much better here today and presented a scheme that I had believed would benefit this industry. I mean, when we're in the opposite situation, the government has to take responsibility for it. There has been a total lack of willingness to make a setup. What's quite correct is that the Workers' Party has been given the opportunity to vote for the Government's arrangement - and so some vague statements that one might once in the future get to something else. In my view, it never has our real negotiations, nor within what has our current framework, simply because the government parties believed that there were many for this in the first place, and have therefore expected this matter to come to port. When it comes to taxes and all that, I think it's difficult to draw it out as an example of stability, because neither in that case has the government been given any order in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e135	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e139	It is true, as the rapporteur has said, that the Norwegian maritime sector represents one of the largest and most important industries in total, and without comparison with anything else has an international character that is very significant. I think it is also important that, in today's discussion, when we have put the tone here and to a greater extent choose to look back, we take inwards what has happened over the last two or three years in order to correct the fundamental problems we have had in the Norwegian economy, which was in the fight against unemployment, the fight to correct the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, which is also very much affecting the Norwegian maritime sector. There has been a clean-up job that has produced very good results, and has been very useful also for the Norwegian maritime sector overall. It was very necessary to have a tight fiscal policy that enabled Norway to come to a level of monetary policy, interest rate policy and wage policy and inflation rate, so that we did not have significant competitive disadvantages – which was the situation when this government took over. Ultimately, this is about money, it's about priorities, and it's about prioritizing something else. There is no doubt that there are some industries in the Norwegian maritime sector that today have no reason to feel as satisfied as others. But I think that when we look back, as the rapporteur chose to do, we see that the allocation of net pay and reimbursement arrangements over the course of these three years has increased from 305 million. NOK 1 020 million. kr, i.e. more than three times. And what this is about are priorities within the framework proposed by the Government, which are to be stable now out of the grubbing-up period. With today's high level, it is also about prioritizing within this historically high level. I record that many of the government's proposed measures have been implemented. In the field of taxation and in a number of other areas, there has been a unison positive feedback, so when the case-rapporteur turns into a spokesman for the industry, I am not sure if he, when he goes as high on the track as he does, has had the necessary contact with all aspects of the maritime sector in Norway. Because we have a relatively significant cut-off in terms of positive feedback on the message as such. When one chooses to prioritize the model of competence - but only after one, as the Akssen says, has given net wages to the rest of the NOR fleet - it is a real point of view that we just have to take note of. The accent has also stated – and it is quite clear from the comments – that the model of competence within the NIS fleet, as proposed, is in place in the long term. But I think that in a debate like this, in the high-cost country of Norway, there is a need to find out that some factors are more important than others. Ringing the hub in the Norwegian maritime sector, the maritime cluster as such - which is the whole foundation for shipping, maritime activities, which are run by Norway - must go ahead of what is to be prioritised in second, third, fourth and fifth places in this debate. That is where I feel that we have not reached far enough in order to get the widest possible solution today. We note that the Workers' Party has chosen to give priority to ferries on international voyages in front of what is fundamental, on which we believe it is necessary to invest, namely the model of competence, which has received a broad and positive feedback from the Norwegian maritime sector. I believe that the industry is not well served by speaking as the case-rapporteur has chosen to do today. It can hardly serve the Norwegian maritime sector to create a dark picture of the decision taken here, and it can hardly be useful for the Norwegian maritime sector that today's discussion has an ambition level of 30, 40, 50 or 60 pst. above the historically high level that we currently have in appropriations for reimbursement schemes and for net wages as such - a level that is four-five times above what was the level when Akselsen himself put into government and was the Council of State. I think you do the whole maritime sector a bear service if you lay down at a level of ambition that it's not possible to achieve at all. Then one forgets all the positive aspects of the other framework conditions and of the ambitions of the notification as such - one extends to an average EU level in terms of taxes, taxes, areas of financial taxation, tonnage taxation, shipping taxes, etc. In view of the matter that we have dealt with earlier today, I also feel that there is reason to ask questions about political realism, who is going to finance the invoice. Two hours ago, Stortinget concluded the treatment of the national transport plan. There I registered that the Workers' Party paid 22 billion kroner over what was the Government's proposal. And I see that in the field of field-by-area, you go to an economic level where you put your ambitions on a level that is not feasible in the realistic part of the world. When you choose to go so high on the track and criticise others for not achieving solutions to the extent that you have on your own behalf, on a matter that is clearly important for the nation and for the Norwegian maritime sector as such, you have to ask for the necessary credibility. Furthermore, I think it is very important to work internationally so that we do not have discussions about tax terms for the benefit of one industry rather than others in the future. Of course, industry neutrality is a concept that we have to try to cultivate, insofar as it is possible to cultivate it. But I think we have to do everything we can internationally through our membership of the IMO and also vis-à-vis our contact with the EU, etc. in order to clean up the tax regimes that will take place in one particular industry. I think there is reason to look forward with hope to a positive trend, so that there are no tax arrangements outside the borders of the country or in more exotic parts of the world that allow you to sail under flags of convenience, or that Nordics will not be competitive with employees from Eastern Europe, from the Philippines or from other places that have a pay level that is not close to a Norwegian net salary. I believe that today's treatment in many ways provides stability that is necessary for the industry. And then we're told that in large parts of the Storting there are people who have greater ambitions in this area than the government parties have found as the proper platform. But I repeat that today's level, which is also proposed in the future, is a historically high level -- it's actually three times higher than the level left by the case rapporteur when he was in a previous government. In addition, I just want to say that we have to look forward, and we have to make sure that creating a dark picture of the situation is the scarce basis for it, and neither is it appropriate for the Norwegian maritime sector to cultivate that kind of political activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e167	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e170	In the past, the right had strong wordings when mentioning the lack of effort of previous governments for shipping and Norwegian seafarers. The right criticised in strong order that the scheme was too bad, and the party's leader wrote letters to the trade unions and said that only the Right came into government, there would be better framework conditions and better conditions for Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. What has changed so much that right now cuts in framework conditions that they would previously improve? The right would have had bigger frameworks at its disposal to make the situation better if they wanted it. The representative of Kristiansen knows that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e177	The representative Bendik's H. Arnesen is moving well within the terminology of "choicelifts". It might have been interesting to continue a discussion with the Workers' Party under this theme, but I think Bendiks H. Arnesen makes himself the spokesman for a false opinion if he believes that there is a proposal for a brutal cut in the proposed message and in the committee setting. That's not right. What we're proposing is another priority within the same allocation framework that -- I'm just repeating -- is on a historically high level. It cannot be considered to be cut. In addition, the representative Arnesen probably knows that we are promoting tax proposals that will primarily hit the Norwegian maritime sector best of all in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e182	What shipping organisations ask through their superstructure Maritime Forum is to harmonise the framework conditions, to get the same conditions as European competitors. Then they're going to pick up the fight, fold up the shirts and do the rest of the job themselves. They are fairly sure to win because Norway is still the world leader in competence in shipping. But this doesn't want the Right. The business-friendly Right does not want to help this area, which may be the only one, or at least one of the few, where we are world leaders in competence, and where we have a lot of jobs. I don't understand this, because, also theoretically, as Professor Torger Reve at the BI School of Handles says, if we subsidize or provide support for one element in this cluster, this cluster is altogether so profitable and is the second most valued in Norway for oil and gas. When I joined Gabrielsen in the Business Committee, he fought for reimbursement arrangements. Why has the Right changed its attitude to Norwegian shipping and maritime?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e191	I think it must be a big misunderstanding, the representative Hedstrom now expresses that it is the opinion that he believes the party Right represents. What we are proposing is a model of competence that the representative Hedstrom knows has got very good mention in the maritime environment, from the Shipowners' Association, the Maritime Forum, plus that a number of shipping companies have clearly stated that this is considered to be very positive. This means that not everyone on board can be given priority, but priority must be given to what is the basis for having a hub, a cluster, starting with Norway, in order to operate international activities. Net wages and salaries for all are unlikely to be competitive, however, in all areas. In particular, I think of the NIS fleet as such. But expressing that we are failing the Norwegian maritime sector is a totally wrong view. That we give priority, contrary to what the Progress Party is capable of, should not surprise anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e198	No one has, or has believed, been prepared to have competitive conditions to match low-cost and tax havens. What we're talking about is having competitive conditions that match our closest competitors, the countries around us. Let me give the government honor. The notification is offensive and is good in describing the needs of the industry. There has never been so much money used, perhaps not even inflation-adjusted, as it has been done lately. In that way this is well and good. The problem is that the countries around us have significantly improved their competitive conditions during a time when we have done the opposite. We started well in 1996, but unfortunately we have reversed some of these arrangements. If the cluster is to become competitive in the future, we need to improve the conditions of competition. There's not enough government going on, and my question to Ivar Kristiansen is: What kind of grip does Right now think it's necessary to take -- I'm not talking about low-cost land -- to create the broad political compromise that is necessary for this to be sustainable over time?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e205	I think that the replicator just shows that the Government's proposals have great opportunities to become the current policy for the Norwegian maritime sector in the future. I think that when you start asking us questions about what's going on in order to give a high enough priority, the answer is, first of all, that we have to be able to give priority to what's most important of all. We have to be able to rank. If we are to choose within our neighbouring countries, within the EU, we must not just shop on the top shelf. It could be tempting to follow the comments of the representative, but then we have to do it in full, and then I am not sure that we have the Central Party anymore. For example, if we are to take part in the purchase of EU agricultural policy or policies in other areas, I am not sure that we will get the broad set of questions that Mr Enoxsen is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e212	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e215	Shipping has long been a throw-off in industrial policy in Norway. Maritime industries are hampered by policy-defined framework conditions which are significantly worse than those under which European competitors otherwise operate. That is an indisputable fact. Arguing governments, repeated deteriorations in industry conditions are in stark contrast to the EU's offensive investment in shipping companies, seafarers and other maritime activities. We now see clear results of years of political gambling on maritime heritage silver. The ship's speed is within a weathering process. The Norwegian share of the world fleet is decreasing, and the number of Norwegian seafarers and young people in maritime training has fallen over time. We experience that several of the large companies are purchased from abroad. In order to be able to compete in international competition for new markets, many companies find it necessary to put their new business out of the country’s borders. In that situation, high expectations were generated for the shipping communication. Here the Government emphasises that Norwegian shipping is an important part of the country's business and contributes directly and indirectly to the creation of value added. It is established that shipping represents an experience and competence that is important for the rest of the maritime environment. It is stated in the message: "In order for these companies to continue to contribute to growth and value creation in the future, it is important that shipping and maritime industries remain clearly anchored in Norway." The Progress Party welcomes the fact that the Government has so clearly stated that its overall objective is that Norway should be an attractive place to own and operate shipping activities from. But what is now important is to establish tools that make it realistic to achieve this goal. It must be clear: the shipping message does not go far enough, because there is a piece left to equal conditions of competition with European shipping nations. But it should be a good starting point for improvement. As the Progress Party sees it, the notification must be made more obligatory and contain a timetable for the implementation of framework conditions and instruments. I would like to remind you that changing governments have had low credibility in shipping policy. There are enough examples of proposals for worsening framework conditions for shipping companies and seafarers since the Stortinget dealt with the previous shipping report. Therefore, security through predictability and long-termity is important when launching a shipping policy. Trustworthiness must be restored, and not far enough has come here. I'll do some examples. There is no obligation to speed up the reduction and elimination of the property tax in the tax notification. A halve of taxes on wealth is reported during 2006 and 2007, with a consequent dwindling. But I underline: no obligations. There are no concrete promises that tonnage taxes will have the same content as European competitors. It can mean new uncertainty, new flagging and weathering. The proposal for a model of competence in the Norwegian ship registers without at the same time including all seafarers in NOR in the net pay scheme creates new problems. Thousands of Norwegian seafarers in coastal, ferry and other categories of vessels are excluded. They won't make it in competition. Due to the cost of Norwegian labour, they will be released on leave. It goes on and on and on and on. In the Sem Declaration, the Government's political platform, the Bondevik government promises good conditions for Norwegian seafarers. For many, it's actually the opposite that happens. This is happening as the EU builds up to a maritime power under the Treaty of Lisbon. Shipowners and seafarers are seen as a unit. There is no distinction between ship categories and seafarers, as the Government chooses to do in Norway. For example, in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Denmark and Sweden, generous net pay schemes have been introduced to offset some of the pay differentials among some other countries’ seafarers, for example. Filipinos and Indians. One has understood the importance of having a solid tribe of its own seafarers. There's only one thing to say about this: Norwegian shipping is going to hurt. The Progress Party has fought for many years to ensure that Norway will continue to be among the world’s leading maritime nations in the future. We are the country in Europe where shipping is most important to society and should therefore be Europe's most attractive location for maritime activities. The maritime industry is united on common requirements to ensure the competitiveness of shipping companies and seafarers. We support shipping organisations and the common platform set up. What we are asking for is not special arrangements, but a level playing field with Europe. It's not too much in the world's richest country when we expect extra revenues due to a high oil price of over 30 billion kroner. If they do, Norway will continue to be a leading shipping nation, as we still have a competitive advantage by being world leaders in competence. The Progress Party is obliged by decision at our last two national meetings to work for European conditions of competition. At the heart of the resolutions adopted at national level are provisions for the introduction of a European tonnage tax for shipping companies, the removal of taxes on wealth and the introduction of a statutory system of aid to ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers. It will be important to get the necessary tools in place from day one, and not a little later. Then the trust comes. Investments and developments will then be based on Norway. We feel the urgency of harmonised conditions with the EU and of providing long-term guarantees. A broad research project, the European Maritime Benchmark, carried out by the BI School of Economics, could be an example of this. A comparison of the attractiveness of five European countries as host countries for maritime activities has been presented. Compared countries are Norway, Denmark, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany. With the existing framework conditions, the strongest growth will come in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, while Norway’s role as a maritime power will soon be over. First, it'll be on the shipowner's side. Then it will reproduce to the rest of the marine environment. It is quite natural that businesses will shift your growth and make important decisions. Although Norway has good assumptions, there is evidence that regulatory framework conditions are central to explaining these developments. Now let's learn from this. Let's help turn a negative trend by giving this industry European conditions. It will in any case be profitable for Norwegian interests. It is also important to comment on the importance of predictability. In many countries, long-term business guarantees are provided by the authorities, a commitment to secure investment, which provides value creation and jobs in the countries concerned. It is also true for the shipping industry, which invests in Norway with a two-digit billion each year, and which represents an annual value creation of 40-50 billion kroner. With the assistance of the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association, the Progress Party will start an investigation and work on a draft constitution that can provide a formal opportunity for long-term tax, tax, legal and regulatory decisions. We would like to put forward such constitutional proposals in order to have a debate on these issues and a concrete discussion of such changes during the next enlargement period. Constitutional amendments must be tabled before the end of September 2004 in order to be dealt with during the next enlargement period. If we can have a system that allows decisions that cannot be amended for example for 10 years, it can facilitate planning and investment decisions. Norwegian authorities will also gain greater credibility. Long-term and predictable framework conditions are a very important desire and requirement of the maritime industry, and are also a frequently mentioned wish from other sectors of the economy that make long-term investments. When tax rates, tax laws, depreciation rates and rules, legal provisions and regulations can be changed at any time and experience changes frequently, including in late night hours during budget negotiations, this creates major problems. I would like to comment on some of the main tools that we believe need to be put in place when dealing with this message. The government will reduce tonnage taxes to European level. It is good, but there are no concrete promises regarding the timing or arrangement of the tonnage tax system. The progressing party considers it to be such that the time should be clarified in this setting. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide for full European harmonisation of the Norwegian tonnage tax system. This implies harmonisation with the main structure common to the European schemes. Such an approach should be based on the models in Denmark, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom both in terms of the content of the system and the structure of the system. This is absolutely necessary in order to attract international shipping companies and not just keep the companies already in Norway. When the Government announces that it will come back with concrete proposals for amendments and adaptations to the shipping tax system in the 2005 state budget, it is not offensive enough, we believe. The Progress Party will therefore present proposals for a reformed Norwegian tonnage tax scheme covering the above mentioned conditions and applicable from 2005. The shipping industry has been characterised by extensive, active private Norwegian ownership. Special taxes on wealth affect private time, capital intensive and competitive activities in particular. The Government mentions in the Communication the importance of continuing ownership and head office in Norway and highlights the central importance of shipping companies. This must then be followed up with the necessary concrete measures in the field of taxation. The Progress Party believes that a policy should be developed to keep shipping companies and maritime companies in Norwegian hands, as well as attract international maritime activities. Therefore, the tax on owners must be harmonised with Europe. As part of the conversion of the Norwegian tax system, the property tax has to be removed. In the Communication, the Government calls for a halving of the property tax in three years and then for gradual winding-up. The Progress Party believes that a concrete proposal should be made to reduce and eliminate taxes on wealth and to make a timetable for this. As far as seafarers are concerned, the Government in the Communication proposes a conversion of the support scheme to a model of competence for seafarers, which involves a net pay scheme for the certification of positions in NOR and the certification-related, reimbursable posts in NIS. In addition, Norwegian offshore crew in NOR will be covered by a net pay scheme. Seafarers associated with other categories of ships are excluded from net pay arrangements or other support schemes. The Party of Advances considers that such a conversion as the Government proposes can only be accepted if the following improvements and clarifications are made: A net pay scheme must apply to all Nordics in certification and training positions on board NIS ships and not be limited by those ships that meet current requirements for full Norwegian reimbursement staff. In the event of an extension of the NIS operating area, the introduction of a model of competence must be done at the same time, in order to ensure that ships can retain the Norwegian positions of competence during the transitional period. And most importantly, it must be stressed that the government's conversion can only be accepted if it is also ensured that the competitive seafarers of NOR, who fall outside the Government's proposal to introduce a model of competence in this register, are competitive. This means that seafarers on international ferries, on cargo ships, ropeboats and other categories of vessels, who are currently covered by net pay arrangements, by various reimbursement schemes, or who fall entirely outside these schemes, must be included in full net pay arrangements. These arrangements must be legislated in line with the legislation of Sweden and Denmark. The net pay scheme for all Norwegian seafarers engaged in competitive operations in NOR is an important instrument to secure on-board jobs and to ensure a future Norwegian business cluster. This is the only system that can make Norwegian seafarers competitive in Europe on a broad scale. Seafarers at all levels help to maintain and further develop the maritime competence that is so important to raise itself in international competition. I would like to address the proposals No. 3-5, by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e267	The representative Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e273	The party of progress is a very small party, so in this case as well. Heath flow has previously highlighted issues other than purely industrial policy, and it has been an active debater on refugees, asylum seekers, immigrants and foreigners in general. We must be able to say that he has spoken in such a way that he can hardly be called a foreigner's best friend. The government is now working on changing the foreign policy, so that foreigners on the Norwegian coast are free to do so. If this arrangement goes through, in my view, there will be seafarers from Russia, Ukraine and other low-cost countries who will be manning ships in our coastal shipping industry. Whatever the net pay scheme, they'll have so low rents that they'll outrun the Nordics. My question to Hedstrøm is: why is he, who otherwise is so skeptical of this type of labour, so relaxed in this case that he becomes only a passive auditor to the scheme of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e282	I want to draw attention to our comments in the setting. It is true that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has put this foreign regulation to the hearing. In that case and in the case of the shipping message itself, which we are dealing with here today, we want to hear all the instances on both sides, whether it's the Maritime Association and similar organisations, or the Shipowners' Association and other business organisations. Once we have received all the hearings, the Advance Party shall take its position. But we will do that in a balanced way and on the basis of the fact that we have heard all of the Norwegian democracy being affected by this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e289	Although we are still early this week, I registered yesterday that the Progress Party could probably plan a power fund, a government fund like this, in the order of 30 billion kroner. Today, the Progress Party has proposed to spend SEK 75 billion more than what was proposed by the Government in dealing with the national transport plan. So my question to the representative Hedstrøm is: will there be money left to finance the election promises of the Progress Party to Norwegian seafarers when only the promises of the week have been fulfilled so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e296	I have one minute. Using public funds to compete for valuable pieces of Norwegian business: the power sector as an eternal resource creates incredible values for Norway and will create even greater values in the future. In terms of infrastructure and roads, there are investments Norway has to make, but if we take them now, we can take advantage of these opportunities for a longer time than if we take the investment in ten to fifteen years. It's good economy and stands for good value creation. As far as shipping is concerned, we will provide the same framework conditions as for poorer countries in Europe. But they have understood one thing: if they are to survive with a high standard of living, they must build up within the maritime sector. The Treaty of Lisbon intends to have these instruments until 2011 in order to attract skills and value creation. Norway should also be awake before it is too late!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e308	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e311	Norway is a nation that is proud to be a welfare nation, and we have a welfare society that can compare. In fact, we can take care of most of our citizens in a respectable and good way. So what is the reason why we are a welfare nation? Well, the reason is that we've had a tax system where we've been taxing both business and private individuals for many years. We've had a tax system that's been fair and progressive, that is. that those who have had the most to deliver, have also done the most to society, and instead, those who have little, have said something less. This is a system that we in SV are very concerned about should be passed on. We need to have a tax base in this society in the years to come if we are to be able to take care of this welfare nation. We know that we have enormous obligations ahead of us, including: Because we get many more older. We also have a alarmingly high number of miscarriages, social security, etc. So you can ask yourself what this has to do with the shipping message. Well, here we have an industry that is asking for significant tax relief. We have an industry that asks for tax credits for billions of dollars every year. Is it in the interests of strengthening the welfare state that an industry to which shipping should have significant tax relief every year? In the opinion of the SV, shipping must also contribute to the welfare state by paying taxes. We are aware that there are international rules that are far more favourable in terms of the tax ego of shipping, but this also applies to many other industries. We have a number of industries that have been flagged abroad and are threatening to fly abroad, because they believe that the Norwegian level of costs is too high, either in terms of labour or taxes. We know that today we have a number of companies that have moved out to the Baltic. There are also other parts of the world to which companies choose to move, precisely because the Norwegian cost level is too high. Then we have to ask ourselves, should we treat shipping much more specifically because of what is happening? Yes, to some extent we should treat shipping in a special way. It is a special industry, it also agrees with SV. SV also agrees that this is an industry that is important to the country. But we cannot treat shipping specifically with the dimensions to which a majority in the United Kingdom has been willing. That is what we consider irresponsible in relation to the whole of the policy that we want. Let me go into the individual areas. One area that we in SV have discussed very carefully is the cargo vessels. The cargo ships do not constitute so many boats, there are 200-300 boats going along the coast, but they are unusually important. On average, a freighter takes approx. 40 trailer loads. And when we know what challenges the trails represent both in terms of pollution and not least traffic accidents, this is a very important industry. That's why we've spent a lot of time, both with the organisations, with employees and internally in the party, discussing how we can get the freighters to get better conditions in the years to come, so that we can move freight from road to sea. We in SV have said that one of the areas in which we want to get ahead is all the charges that freighters are charged, which are quite formidable when you start summing up all the fees that are on the sailing, ports, etc. Another area that we want to give priority to is this by stimulating the renewal of the cargo vessel. It's a fleet that's old. Many boats are 30-40 years old, and through Innovation Norway, we want to launch a programme to get ahead and stimulate the construction of new boats. In particular, we would like to start testing this with gas-powered boats. Although it's a little bit ahead -- because we have to have an infrastructure along the coast that allows you to fill gas -- we think it could be exciting to start a innovation around this with a gas-powered freighter that could operate with environmentally friendly transport of goods along the coast. Another area where SV has previously supported the net pay scheme is within the offshore sector. It was a political situation that arose for about a year. One year ago, where SV came into negotiations with a majority, and where we actually got the chance to influence shipping policy by setting some demands that we have been calling for for for many years. Those requirements existed, among others: the inclusion of apprentices on ships, the demonstration of positive business development through much more offensive work in this area, and even more consideration for health, environment and safety than in the past. SV was involved in this last time this matter was being dealt with, and we are actually on it. We're on it because we don't want to wing back and forth. We want to continue that arrangement. As far as ferries are concerned, we have always been critical of their net pay arrangements. We know that those who run the ferry companies today, Color Line and Fjordline in general, represent the richest people we have in this society. They're at the top of the equation, for example. Oslo municipality. And that we're going to be involved in subsidizing this industry with heavy amounts, we think we're completely unreasonable. That's why we've always opposed being part of that kind of net pay scheme. We also see that these ships compete to some extent with hotels, because they have many of the same services, in the form of courses and conferences, and they have many of the same professional groups: cooks, waiters, bartenders, maids, etc. Then we have the treasure chest. We see that the Government has added up to a reduction in both tonnage taxes and property taxes. We in SV are not completely rigid about this. We are willing to look at both the property tax and the tonnage tax. But we're not willing to signal that we're interested in any significant relief in any of these areas. With regard to the ships flying a foreign flag, we would rather have a tightening, while we could look at adjustments for the ships flying a Norwegian flag. But these questions we will come back to when this matter comes to Stortinget. We have discussed this matter very, very thoroughly. There are probably few things that SV has had as many enquiries about the last six months as this case. We feel that this is a very complex matter. We experience that if we had now been willing to go ahead with the net pay scheme for the groups I have mentioned, it is other groups that are also in the process of waiting. We have received enquiries from Hurtigruta and the fishermen, who believe that they should also come under the scheme. So that if you sort of open up a net pay scheme, there will always be new groups in line to do so. Moreover, it is not unreasonable that those with a normal land-based industry could also seek some kind of relief so that they can more easily compete with non-resident enterprises. I think we should have the thinking of the furniture king Jens Petter Ekorenes, who has tried to find a place to live abroad. Twice he has tried to move abroad and failed, he has told me. He has chosen to flag home his furniture industry to More, and has invested in one thing, and that is competence. He has invested in competence, and has managed to get the best of furniture -- not the cheapest, but the best. That is also our challenge in shipping. From our beginnings of education, from higher education to higher education, we need to focus on becoming the best, the best in knowledge, the best in technology and the best in business development, health, the environment and safety. That's SV's answer to how we're going to get speed on shipping. But we see that this isn't easy, because it's land around us as per. today has very special arrangements. Therefore, we will work internationally both through Nordic cooperation and otherwise to try to abolish part of the schemes, so that normal tax rules can be established for this industry as well. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that SV has put forward alone, and those that we have with the Centre Party, and I would like to point out that in the case of proposal No. 6, we have an adjusted proposal. In the end, I will be allowed to say that we have had many meetings with shipping organisations, and those meetings I have experienced mainly as positive. I think the commitment this group shows for its industry is impressive. I think that we mainly meet business from the industry, and we still want to have a dialogue with the industry on how to best as a shipping nation. We can never get the cheapest, but we can get the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e345	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e348	First of all, when Ekorenes has been able to survive in Norway with his production, it's because he's been replacing workers with robots. It becomes interesting if SV's answer here is that Norwegian ships are to be manned by robots for ten years to come. I also mean that SV is completely mistaken in their rhetoric when they claim that this is support for the richest people in Norway. This is about providing support schemes to Norwegian seafarers in line with what they have in Denmark and Sweden. With SV's arrangement, the usual workers, who are otherwise busy, will now be fired. I must admit that I long hoped that SV would be involved and support these schemes, not least on the basis of SV's efforts in connection with offshore layers last year. Nevertheless, I see that SV is consistent in this area. Inge Ryan is otherwise very busy with district work. Why is he no longer busy by the workspaces that exist in this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e357	Yes, SV and the undersigned are engaged in district work. But as I've tried to describe in my article, we're here in a dilemma, because we have a group that shouldn't contribute to the common fund. But we've nevertheless gone into this thoroughly to see if we have the opportunity to be part of the scheme. I mentioned in my speech that in particular with regard to the cargo ships, which is one of the areas where there are many district jobs, and which also have a significant environmental benefit, we are looking for schemes that will make this industry more favourable for years to come. I think we're doing well, and we want to have a dialogue with the industry further around it, and that also applies to the other groups. Otherwise SV is not so defensive that we want the shipping to go to rowboats. That's something that belonged to Terje Vigen and that group. We still want motorboats to be sailed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e364	The case-speaker, through his posts and reply lines, has found that it was not possible to get a broad settlement in this case, and he has given the Government the whole debt for it. It might be interesting to ask the representative Ryan if he can say something about what the case spokesperson has done to involve SV in order to get a broad deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e372	It is well known that SV has had the most extreme position in this case. We have been quite consistent, as the rapporteur was involved, in relation to this with a net pay scheme. And we've been relatively clear over many years about both what we mean about the ferry companies, and what we mean in the other areas. Therefore, the talks between the case rapporteur and the SV's fraction have not been particularly extensive in this area. We have had a few short conversations, but I have had the impression that priority has been given to finding solutions along with the parts that are closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e377	It was a little funny that the representative Ryan named Ekorenes, who last week at a meeting in Fosnavåg gave clear notice to his own party, Right, and to the other government parties that they should go in for net pay arrangements all over the world. It was also a little strange that Ryan spoke so warmly about this with a cargo ship. Then I have to ask, why didn't he go with the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party and get multiple pay for the net pay for the freighter? That's exactly what they're asking for. First, they will be able to get an economy that allows them to invest in gas cargo vessels, etc. Which allows us to get a modern fleet. I can't believe Ryan can stand here and talk about the cargo ship's woe and well, when he had the opportunity to get multiple numbers for a net pay scheme for these. And the question is, why didn't he?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e384	As I mentioned in my post, the cargo ships were one of the areas in which we dissented most of the time in dealing with this matter. We got very good information from that group, and we also had a very thorough treatment of it in our group. I'm not hiding that we had different views about what was the right choice of way forward. What I was presenting now was what we finally landed on. But it wasn't particularly easy for all the members to know what to do about this matter, because we saw that the freighters have a significant environmental benefit in relation to what SV wants, namely to get goods across from road to rail and sea. In this way the cargo ships are very interesting, and therefore we have tried to put in some arrangements in the future, as I also mentioned, both in relation to this with fees and to stimuli in relation to the construction of new boats that might be interesting for this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e389	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e392	The work on the Maritime Communication has shown a great deal of commitment from all the political parties. There is no doubt that the maritime industry has a significant impact both directly and indirectly on the value creation here in the country - both today and in the future. In St.meld. No 31 is added to a high level of support for net wages and salaries of over NOK 1 billion. The message provides guidance for an offensive shipping policy for the future. It is very important for the competitive situation of this industry, and it is important for the way in which shipping driven by Norway can position itself vis-à-vis its closest competitors in the EU. It is particularly important that we have achieved an agreement on increased harmonisation with the EU on a number of fronts, thereby understanding and anchoring that this industry's challenges are of a global, international, competitive and complex nature. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is agreement to harmonise the tonnage tax in relation to the European level and that it is willing to do the same with the Norwegian fleet tax system. The government will also halve the taxes on wealth in 2006 and 2007 with a view to liquidation. This will mean a great deal for Norwegian private ownership in general, and for the shipping industry in particular. Ownership in Norway often leads to head office functions in Norway. This will make important decisions on the further structural development of the company, on which operational units will be located, and on which research will be carried out, a natural part of the agenda. The head offices are decisive for the strategic decisions on each and the manner in which value creation is to be done. Experience has also shown that, where competitive conditions exist, the head offices will be located and thus also the largest ownership interests will take place. Ownership and thus head office functions are important for increasing value creation, tax revenues, attractive jobs and boosting business dynamics. There are also several other factors that are of great significance for the attractiveness of the maritime industry in Norway. In this context, it is important that the Government draws closer to the NIS flag in the Saumans. The reason for this is that the NIS registry is no longer what it once was. The aim of the NIS register must be to ensure that ships at international speed are still eight and driven from Norway. It is then important that the conditions for the NIS register are competitive, flexible and have a high level of customer service - without going beyond quality. It is important that the register be marketed and sold as an attractive and quality proof, with a high level of customer service. It is nice that the Government has set up a group to look at. I also found it interesting in this context that a not only tries to make the register more attractive, but will also consider an additional extension of the NIS registry on the coast. These relationships - a working group that looks at NIS conditions and further expands NIS on the coast - can lead to several Norwegian seafarers with the Government's system, together with several important aspects for a strengthened maritime nutrition from Norway. It will also be important to have a large fleet under the Norwegian flag. This could have much to say about the Norwegian impact of international shipping. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the level of support for net pay is so high, with over $1 billion. At the same time, it is important that the net pay arrangements also have views and solutions for the future. This is based on the fact that we have to make it possible to ensure and maintain the competence we have in the major Norwegian maritime environment. Then we have to add basic arrangements that build up under this. That's what the government's proposal for a model of competence does. The model of competence is forward-looking and is a model that also supports large parts of the industry below. This model includes net wages and salaries for licenced settings in NOR and subject to reimbursable NIS settings. It is proposed to continue as a complement to this arrangement that other seafarers in the offshore fleet of NOR will also be covered by a net wage. The positions which fall within the scope of the provisions on certification are those of masters, mates, engineers, radio officers and aspirants within the ship groups currently covered by the reimbursement arrangements. We look at the model of competence as a right to the future and as a good tool for preserving and developing the industry in Norway. In a globalized industry, we have to realize that we're not fully competitive at price, but we have to bet on quality. At the same time, a model of competence will provide a stable system of support for seafarers prioritising maritime competence. The consequence of prioritising maritime competence is that passenger pricing on ferries on international voyages will not be covered by specific support schemes. However, the rentals of the debt have a guarantee for the current level of aid until 2006. However, I note that several parties on the Stortinget give priority to maintaining existing schemes, and then extending net pay to the entire NOR fleet before one will eventually give priority to the NIS competence model. So in this, there's an understanding that one has nothing against the model of competence in itself, but that one had seen that it was more money than the historically high one that is today. It will always be of interest to prioritize money for good purposes. Money for good purposes wants everyone, but sometimes there is a need for prioritization. Not least, it is easy to forget that historical sums have already been allowed. The framework for the net pay scheme has never been higher. The shipping message facilitates future growth in the maritime sector. We have a complete maritime industrial environment with a cluster of maritime companies covering everything from maritime transport to marine equipment. When the goal is to ensure that a maximum possible share of the value creation and employment of Norwegian maritime enterprises is achieved in and from Norway, it is important to focus on just this environment. The government wants to ensure Norwegian competence on board and an innovative maritime industry on world-class land. There is a need to focus on the acquired knowledge of enterprises in the maritime environment and research institutions and to manage it. This is a Norwegian competition union that means a lot to value creation, and we have to do our best to maintain and take care of it for the future as well. When it comes to the prioritisation of the shipbuilding industry, the government is closely following developments here. If there is a need for action or closer assessment of the framework conditions, this will be considered. Norwegian shipyards are an important part of the maritime cluster. At the top, there was a broad agreement that we should facilitate a broad settlement. There is no multiple on the Storting to increase the financial framework for the purpose. I am therefore amazed at the case-speaker's strong desire to work on the matter, but the disappointment of the willingness to compromise after all. There are several agendas inside the image. The maritime industry did not compete with the Labour Party for its own marking needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e428	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e431	The big message we are discussing today is called Vilje to Growth - for Norwegian shipping and the maritime industries. When we end today's debate, I am not quite sure if the results show that it is willful for growth. Today, the Labour Party has tabled a compromise proposal, or we hope to be a compromise proposal, in terms of the net pay system for seafarers travelling abroad, where we ask that the scheme only apply to the on-board security team. According to the alarm instructions, employees are required to be on board in order for the passenger ship to be allowed to disembark. My question to the Christian People's Party is: why can't the Christian People's Party consider such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e440	What has been told me is that the proposal put forward here by the Labour Party will cost about 300 million. kr more than what the Government has submitted, and what is already in the Storing Message. That's why it's a little strange that the Labour Party in 12 hours throws this proposal into place instead of taking our challenge, when one knows that the government party has no more money to spend, and when we've previously invited the Labour Party into a dialogue to re-prioritize within the frame to achieve a broad deal and a broad deal. But that's also what it's all about-- since it was pointed out. There is a deal about the fleet tax scheme, that it should be spent on 1 billion DKK for seafarers, on the conversion of maritime education, on the value of research and innovation in the maritime industry, on the extension of NIS to Norwegian base and NIS as a competitive register, on net pay for the offshore fleet in NIS, and on the continuation of the arrangements that we have today. A lot of areas are negotiating, but I could have wished that the Workers' Party had shown greater willingness to get even wider deals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e449	The representative Grimstad and I come from More and Romesdal, the state of the country that may have the largest and strongest maritime cluster. Everyone as one within this cluster, perhaps with the exception of the fishing boats, has asked us to implement net pay arrangements for all competitive shipping. Why? Well, because they say that had it not been for the Norwegian sailor, one could never have developed the maritime cluster as she has been in More and Romesdal and in the rest of the country. Now we get a system within the competence model that means that very many Norwegian seafarers who have helped build this up will be put on land. This industry is in its start-up phase at the end. My question is, why does not the Christian People's Party on the right want its own when they ask for such a scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e458	Me and the representative Lodve Solholm come from a great state, More and Romesdal, where this industry and this industry are very strong. Of course, we're listening to the nutrition. Before Ansgar Gabrielsen presented the government's message, he had also traveled the country and the beach around and listened to the industry's challenges. What the government is promoting with the model of competence is broadly anchored in much of the industry. But then one would like to have even more money for even more groups than what the government has put up with. I can share the desire to have even more money to distribute, but we have to stick to a frame. The party of progress could have been involved in re-prioritizing within the framework, but there were also some taxes, so the party of progress has not been interested in it, but flags its primary position. The progress point said they'd spend $75 billion more on traffic, and yesterday they'd spend $30 billion more on Statkraft. I don't know how many billion more they'll spend until the week is gone!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e469	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e473	Let me start by saying to the Right-wing Enterprise Policy Spokesman that it is correctly perceived that the Centre Party will ensure the implementation of framework conditions that make Norwegian industry competitive, including Norwegian agriculture. It does not imply the adoption of other countries’ tax rules, for example, but it implies the assumption of Norwegian climate, Norwegian housing patterns and Norwegian cost levels when setting up the framework conditions for individual industries, so that we can compete with the countries around us. This must also be done in relation to the maritime sector. If we believe that the maritime sector is important, and that is what the Centre Party believes, we must be willing to take the consequences of it and strengthen the framework conditions for this industry, so that it can cope with international competition. We'd like to agree that competing for taxes between countries is a practice. I think everyone, including the industry, would have liked to have seen that you could have been ahead of you. It is also necessary to work internationally, as the Committee advocates, and to harmonise tax conditions and avoid competing with each other under these types of framework conditions. But on the other hand, we should not be so confused and lost by this industry as to do this international work in order to create good framework conditions, or to create a level playing field and competitive opportunities between countries. In 1996, the Stortinget made several positive and good decisions to ensure that we grew in the industry. There was optimism, and we saw that recruitment to the industry increased, not least through education. For the time being, a number of decisions have been taken in this Chamber that have weakened the competitiveness of the industry, while the countries around us have significantly improved their framework conditions. Then we see that the government has presented a big message that is offensive, which describes the challenges in a very good way, but where one withdraws in the conclusions that the government draws in the big news. A unanimous political environment has expressed the desire for a broad political settlement, and it is quite frustrating to see that it has not been possible to achieve it. In the same way as the case rapporteur, I have to say that the government parties must take a significant part in the responsibility that it has not been possible. It's okay that the government parties were not willing to spend more money on this sector than what the government offered - it has to be noted by the other parties. But then the government parties must also take their share of the responsibility for the fact that it was not possible to achieve a settlement. Despite the fact that the Central Party and the Advance Party are quite close to each other in part of the conditions we want for this industry, it must be said that the Progress Party also has a significant responsibility for the fact that it has not become a settlement. In fact, in some contexts the Progress Party could have chosen the second best instead of flagging its primary positions, and contributed to getting closer together. Because even if it was not possible to achieve full agreement, we are now in a situation where there is a total gap, and where industry will live with unforeseeable even in the future, in a way that does not serve the industry, which will not contribute to optimism, which will not help more young people to educate themselves in the industry and choose this as their future career path. The issue that we have to deal with today is not about the aversion of the rich leaders to paying taxes or their need to have net wages for their employees. It's about a lot more than that. That's where SV, in my opinion, makes one of their fundamental bombs, because you're not able to see the relationship between the different parts of the cluster. It is not possible to see that having Norwegian owners, having head offices in Norway and having Norwegian seafarers is a necessity to develop the rest of the maritime environment, which includes the workshop industry, the classification societies, insurance, bank, finance, shipbrokers, and we would like to include auditing and legal services, etc., which is also an important part of this maritime cluster, and which it is absolutely necessary to develop this industry further in the future. If we do not have Norwegian shipping companies, Norwegian owners, the rest of this cluster will not develop either. Therefore, it is unfortunately necessary to tune in with the wolves you have around you. It is necessary to have conditions of competition that can match them in the countries around us and that enable this industry to develop. The Stortinget has not been able to contribute. It is therefore to be hoped that the Government, at least when presenting the State budget for the autumn, will choose to be offensive in such a way as to show that, in this context, it may indeed be possible to bring together broad support in the Storting for a more offensive shipping policy than is currently decided by the Storinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e494	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e497	In its contribution to the arrangements put in place for shipping in 1996, the Enoxen pointed out. Then it is tempted to point to page 80 of the shipping message, Will for growth. The figure shows that during the last three years of the Central Party, support was given to seafarers year after year reduced from 471 million. kr per. years to 307 million. kr in the last State budget that the Central Party participated in. What is the credibility of the Central Party, then, when it owes it to this government to be too passive when it owes it to strengthen the framework conditions for Norwegian maritime industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e504	Yes, it is true that in Bondevik I, time, the support for shipping was reduced, also at that time with a Prime Minister of the Christian People's Party at the head and with the support of the Right, who was a budgetary partner at least for two of the years the central government has set up, and who actually helped to reduce this support, in violation of what the Right had promised in various election campaigns. The point, however, is that the Center Party has actually been able to learn from the results we saw by reducing the aid. Shipwrecks were weakened, boats were flagged, and the optimism and growth observed following the decisions taken in 1996, where the Centre Party was a driving force for the decisions to be taken turned around. That sailor won't be in the Senter Party. And we're actually able to learn that it's being done wrong, and take the consequences of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e511	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e514	The left is well pleased that a majority on the Stortinget supports the main lines of the Government’s proposals in this Storing Message, which will ensure good framework conditions for Norwegian shipping in the future. Norwegian shipping has a long and honorable history, and with our long coast as the starting point, shipping should also have a long and honorable future. The role of the public in facilitating this is primarily based on the opinion of the Left to ensure good and stable framework conditions. Our maritime industry deals with a cluster, or a network, of maritime companies, and covers everything from maritime transport to marine equipment, shipbuilding, mediation, financing, classification, research and maritime petroleum industry. This industry is one of our most global, and therefore the most competitive. Ensuring good and stable framework conditions is best done by pursuing an economic policy that facilitates better Norwegian competitiveness through a strongly reduced level of interest rates and an improvement in the relationship between the dollar and the euro. Through contributions to income policy cooperation, the Government also facilitates the reduction of wage developments that make Norwegian labour force today significantly more expensive than in our competitors. A damp wage growth will guarantee Norwegian maritime companies access to competitive and competent labour. This is of particular importance for the fact that an internationally oriented industry, such as shipping, will still be localised and further developed with a base in Norway. In addition, it is important that public support schemes are set up in such a way as to ensure industrial competence and a good link between education, skills and support systems. Our skilled seafarers with high competence are important to the maritime Norway. The Government provides in the message a better way to ensure such coherence, primarily by providing a stable system of financial support for seafarers prioritising maritime competence. In this context, the government proposes a shift of social welfare schemes to a model of competence for seafarers. In line with the objective of prioritising social benefits to maritime competence, this includes: that passenger ticketing on ferries on international voyages will not be covered by specific social welfare arrangements. Such a conversion will bring together the level of benefits as at present, but concentrated on the establishment of a net pay scheme for the most skilled jobs on board. In this way, the maritime competence, which is important for the future of Norwegian shipping, is given priority to providing sea-going hotels and serving places with unparalleled competitive demonstrations of land-based hotels and serving places, as the current social welfare system suggests. In addition, the provision of coordination of education and training, the continuation of a separate supplementary training positioning scheme and a dedicated training qualification fund add to the emphasis on skills and a stronger link between skills and social welfare systems. The target is growth for Norwegian shipping and maritime industries. Such healthy, stable and forward-looking growth is not created by over-dimensioning public social benefits. He is also not created by not targeting public social benefits against what is the core competence of the industry. For an industry that is so heavily influenced by international, open competition, a faulty and excessive use of public support will only give a sweep of inefficiency and thus make our companies poorer equipped to meet the competition they have to live with. The government is committed to harmonising tonnage charges in relation to the European level. There is also a need for a greater degree of harmonisation of the Norwegian shipping tax system down to EU level, as noted above. the arrangements, inter alia: Denmark, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. At the same time as the Government of the Great Britain Communication on the Tax Reform proposes to reduce the wealth tax for liquidation, this would provide a good basis for believing that Norway is an attractive location for shipping and maritime industries both with regard to public framework conditions and not least with regard to the competences we hold. Norway should in the future be an attractive location for international companies related to shipping and maritime industries. With this message and with the grips taken by this Government, the Left actually believes that this is a forward-looking industry, which will be located in Norway, with good Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e543	The representative, Vihodde, said that there were stable framework conditions. We know that the vast majority of those who have spoken now will claim that we will see the flagging out of Norwegian companies and that Norwegian seafarers will be put on land. That is a stable framework! Then we're rid of the Norwegian sailor, and there's stability in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e548	If the representative Solholm traces that kind of optimism into the industry, that might be the result! Actually, it doesn't have the left trust in. We don't believe it's gonna be flagging out. If we had listened to the Progress Party and the Progress Party wanted to use money, we would never have received the interest rate we have today, we had never received a competitive crown price, and so the industries that are on the coast, where both Solholm and I come from, lost thousands of jobs, because they lost their competitiveness. Then I want to remind the representative, Solholm, that we want to actually bring down the property tax, and we hope that the Progress Party will support us in this matter. With the framework conditions laid down in this big message, which means inviting stability, I actually believe that this industry is facing a bright future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e557	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e560	For several generations, shipping has been one of Norway’s most important industries. This is quite natural, because Norway is a coastal nation with about 57,000 kilometres of coastline extending over 282 coastal municipalities and 17 coastal areas. The boat has been essential for the transport of people and goods to and from all our coastal communities. The competence we have built up over generations has made Norway one of the world's leading shipping nations. This competence has also led us internationally to technology and equipment for shipping. I would say that, without this very strong maritime competence, Norway could not have appeared to be one of the leading nations on oil and gas extraction at sea. When we started the oil age in Norway, we already had a great maritime competence that allowed us to have a lot in place and quickly become a leader in this area as well. The opportunities for further development in this area are closely linked to our being able to keep up with the maritime industries in the future. Today we have seafarers in all the municipalities of the country, including those that are far from the coast. We also have suppliers of goods and services for the maritime businesses across the country. This creates important jobs across the country. At least 75 000 professionals in the country are linked to this important maritime industry. I would also say that with a good maritime policy, Norway could have developed this into something far more and increased employment significantly, with its good starting point. Therefore, I must say that this big message does not properly bear its name. Although in some areas the roll-out message points in the right direction, it does not show a great deal of willingness for growth. With this government's maritime policy, I fear that we will have problems keeping Norway as the third largest shipping nation in the world. Until then, the competitive situation becomes too difficult. We must remember that our competitors have significantly improved their framework conditions in recent years. The current representative of the Grand Duchy of Right Ansgar Gabrielsen expressed great disappointment in 1998 at the Bondevik I government that would cut the reimbursement scheme. He believed that such a policy to those degrees would fail the Norwegian sailor. I can say the same today about Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen's shipping policy. I think there are many seafarers who in the previous election gave their voice to the Right because the party so strongly promised to work for the Norwegian sailor, who now sees that they have failed. I remember how pleased the sailors were when former party leader in the Right wrote letters to them and promised better times. I see it as crucially important for a better development of Norwegian shipping that we should be able to maintain a strong seafaring position here to land. Nor can we remain a large Norwegian shipping nation without Norwegian seafarers. No one should believe that in the future we can raise capable officers on shipping without also having in place subordinate Norwegian seafarers. No one makes me think that someone can become a skilled officer and learn this profession by just simulating seafarers, and board as an officer right from education. That is why, in my view, the so-called model of competence, for which the Government is in favour, is a very poor instrument, both for recruiting new officers from Norway and for securing Norwegian jobs on Norwegian ships. A skilled seafarer and a ship's officer is only by practicing the profession in its proper sense and by embarking. With the government's policy, this possibility will be greatly reduced. I don't think anyone believes that net pay and such special arrangements are something we want. But when this is introduced to our competitors, I can see that we have no choice but to have the same arrangements if we are to be able to compete in this market. Therefore, active international efforts should also be made to eliminate this type of tax dumping. So until that happens, our shipping and our seafarers must have framework conditions that enable them to compete. The ships registered in the NOR register, which are subject to competition, wear very heavy. The average age of these boats is now 35 years old, which clearly shows that they are not profitable enough to make investments and renewal. With the competitive situation they are exposed to, I also see no lighting through the decisions that are, according to all judgement, taken here tonight. Nor will SV's medicine work here. I am very surprised that the government parties and the SV do not see us here facing a very important district industry, which not only means important employment for the districts but is also an important offer for many coastal communities. I would say that this is also an environmental issue. If we believe something about getting more of the traffic from road to boat, the conditions should be arranged in such a way that this can be done. The government is proposing to change the foreign policy. Such a change will eliminate the requirements for a work permit for foreign crews on foreign ships engaged on Norwegian domestic voyages. This will thus open the Norwegian coast to full competition from low-cost countries. I have no doubt that it will undermine Norwegian domestic shipping and make the situation even worse for this industry. I have wondered a lot about what the government wants with such a policy that in this way freezes Norwegian business, but I have gradually reconciled myself with the fact that this is no hope for another policy. However, I am more surprised that the Progress Party, with its stated commitment to saving Norwegian shipping, and which has so clearly spoken the Norwegian Seafarers' case, will open the coast to such competition. I am surprised that the Progress Party in this way is moving away from its objectives and empowers the Government to move forward on its path towards worsening the situation for Norwegian seafarers. I heard what the representative Hedstrom said about this earlier this evening. But there will be a vote on this tonight. It's going to be interesting to see what the Progress Party is doing. For many years I have been working to ensure Norwegian shipping and Norwegian seafarers. I would have thought that this time we would have a broad consensus on a policy that was positive and long-term for the industry, but I have to keep on saying that we haven't. I would like to commend case rapporteur Olav Aksensen for the many attempts he has made, both to the right and to the left, to find solutions for the benefit of the industry. I note that the will has been far from present on the part of the Government and the SV to achieve this. This case clearly shows that it is only the Workers' Party that has the whole of the maritime policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e595	Norwegian seafarers shall survive as a crew on Norwegian boats. The Stortinget will take care of that. It's that simple. Therefore, Norwegian seafarers shall have net pay arrangements in the competitive part of the NOR system. It shall not be the case, as the representatives of the Maritime Organisations conclude, that Norwegian seafarers will in the long term not survive either on foreign voyages or on oil-related shipping in the North Sea with the policy that a scarce majority of the Stortinget now proposes during the consideration of the shipping communication. The Coastal Party is associated with the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party that net wages should be introduced for all Norwegian seafarers in the competitive part of the NOR register. We are not opposed to international framework conditions, it should be lacking. But it's amazing that the Norwegian seafarers are going to have worse conditions than the ones we're competing with. Net wages and salaries of foreign ferries in NOR must be continued. It will guarantee seafarers and shipping companies a policy that will be stable and forward-looking. I understand that the members of the mariners' organisations are very frustrated when they repeatedly experience that there are only a few votes missing in the Storting to ensure Norwegian seafarers' jobs. On 16 June 2000, the representative, Stolt-Nielsen, proposed that the Government be required to submit proposals for measures to ensure maritime industries and Norwegian seafarers of internationally competitive framework conditions. This joined Stortinget. When the notification finally arrived, two years too late, it contained only proposals for competitive framework conditions for the offshore fleet, which forced the Government’s will to do so through February 27, 2003. Nevertheless, the Stortinget quickly handles the message during six of the busiest weeks of the year. This is irresponsible treatment of a matter that means being or not being for the total maritime business environment, where good Norwegian seafarers are a key factor. The Coastal Party will point out that the Government has not done its job. Or do they have it, maybe the Right Policy works? The notification does not contain any constructive proposals to make our competitive NOR fleet and passenger ferries internationally competitive, as requested by the Storting three years ago. This is despite the fact that foreign competitive pressure has increased and will continue to increase over the same period. On the contrary, with the decision tonight, ferries in international traffic will also lose their competitiveness from 2006 onwards. The government's conclusion is clearly that it is entirely okay for foreigners to take over both freight and passenger traffic along the Norwegian coast. The message might as well be said in plain text: Flag out, we no longer need Norwegian seafarers for anything other than offshore missions. Competence reform is what they call it when they say that several thousand Norwegian seafarers are going to land. Good sailors don't come straight from the classrooms. The practical training on board will always be essential for the quality of maritime training. It's important to be able to set sea legs, and it's important to know what seawork is. It's also important to be able to stand on a swinging school floor. With the Government's proposal, only the offshore fleet will be able to provide such training, but the offshore fleet is not large enough to take practical training responsibility for future officers in NIS as well as on flagged Norwegian vessels. The government’s proposal therefore implies that the intake of seafarers’ training must be reduced in the coming years, while shipping goes into a period of high age. Steered winding-up, in other words. The ring-fenced effects of clustering activities along the coast will be high. The Government has taken the view, through the Maritime Communication, that the aim is to release workplaces, and now thousands of workers with horror are looking forward to being "released". When SV in this case joins Right, it shows to all people that SV is not industrially mature enough to participate in future government cooperation with someone. That's what people along the coast will notice. When the EU's ability to set labour free flow limits ceases in 2011, Poland and the Baltic States will certainly demand a reduced possibility for rich countries to use net wages as protection for national labour. This is why the EU today recommends that the opportunities offered by the net pay scheme be fully exploited by 2011. Norway goes the opposite way and places the entire maritime food concept, apart from the offshore fleet, open.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e618	The Government, in the big news we are debating today, has proposed a number of measures to ensure that Norway appears to be an attractive place to own, operate and flag shipping. Maritime activities account for approx. 9 pst. of the value added in the Norwegian economy, and represents a large proportion of Norwegian exports of both goods and services. By submitting the notification, the Government facilitates stable and competitive framework conditions for Norwegian shipping and the maritime industries. We therefore want to ensure Norway's leading role in international shipping, and we want to facilitate growth by proposing measures to ensure on-board competence and an innovative maritime industry. However, the framework conditions in Norway are now less attractive than in many of our competitors. In order to meet competition from other shipping nations, the Government proposes a harmonisation of the tonnage tax down to a European level. Furthermore, a greater degree of harmonisation of the legislation of the shipping tax system is proposed. Through these measures, the Government will facilitate those who want to operate shipping from Norway, and I am of course pleased that our proposal for a shipping tax scheme has broad support in the UK today. The government's announced halving and the long-term elimination of the property tax will provide better opportunities for Norwegian private ownership of the shipping industry and other maritime industries. I note that there now appears to be a political majority for the Government's proposals in this area as well. From 2001 until now, aid to seafarers over the State budget has increased from 310 million. NOK 1 020 million. kr in the state budget for the current year. The government wants to maintain the appropriations at today's historically high level, and is pleased that a broad majority support a high economic framework. The government will give priority to maritime competence because this will lead to the industry being better equipped to meet the competitive situation of today and the future. It is therefore proposed to introduce a model of competence for seafarers from 1 January 2006. The model is simpler and more targeted than the current schedule and implies net remuneration for all certification posts in both NOR and NIS, for the ship groups currently covered by the reimbursement scheme. In addition, all offshore seafarers in NOR will be covered by a net pay scheme. The model of competence also includes aspirants and apprentices in the certification posts. The Government proposes that those within the current net pay scheme be given time to adapt to the new regime. In line with the Government's wish to invest in the competence of Norwegian shipping and maritime industries, it is proposed to increase the quality of maritime education and make it more attractive. The government believes there is a need for increased cooperation and concentration of teaching places. We consider the integration of maritime certification education as an important contribution to increasing interest in maritime subjects and to improving cooperation between shipping companies and training centres on training places. In addition, the Government will increase its commitment to maritime research and innovation. I note that this is also a broad support for the Government's proposal. In order to meet the challenges of the internationalisation of the offshore fleet, the Government will increase the flexibility of the offshore industry through the access of NIS ships to the Norwegian base. The government has already launched a review of legislation and administrative procedures aimed at making the Norwegian flag attractive to international tonnage. Our goal is for the Norwegian flag to be a signal for quality shipping internationally. I am pleased that a broad majority of people also support the Government's action to make the NIS register more attractive. The government’s willingness to grow in what has been - and is - one of the country’s most important industries through the big news. The most important thing that can be done for Norwegian shipping and the maritime industries is to ensure stable framework conditions over time. I therefore note, despite too much of what has been said here today, with satisfaction that there is indeed broad support for the main lines of shipping policy, and that it has not materialized any majority against the proposals put forward by the Government. However, I see that some priorities differ from what we do. I take note of that. What is at least definitive is that the government will be on the government budget for 2005 to present the tax proposals as they stand in the communication, and we will be in the budget for 2006, to the extent that we are given the opportunity to present St.prp. No 1st harvest, to provide a model of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e644	It seems that the Council of State was more concerned with Norwegian seafarers before he became the Council of State. In my opinion, the Council of State has now invited to intervene, which will weaken the opportunities for Norwegian jobs on Norwegian ships. Governments talk a lot about owning and operating, and about taxes. But he talks less about seafarers who don't have certificates. Does the Council of State think that the changes now being made to shipping will create recruitment and more jobs at sea, or does the Council of State now feel that he is failing Norwegian seafarers, especially in view of his former involvement with Norwegian seafarers?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e654	I noticed that Arnesen also in his main post gave former stork representative Gabrielsen considerable recognition for his commitment to defeat St. pp. No 1 throughout the 1990s. It was particularly referred to Bondevik I, but all the statistics, as shown on page 80 of the big message, suggest that the exposure was actually even greater, and the need even greater, to fight down what came from the labor party governments at the time. It's a recognition that I naturally appreciate. Throughout the 1990s, the Storting granted an average of 350 million. kr per year to secure Norwegian seafarers. So now we're using the triple, and in this two-year period, the government has said that there will be no changes. It's a historical event in itself. But we also say that we should continue that level into the future, based on the model of competence. I thank you for the recognition, and I thank you, of course, for the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e661	"Competitive conditions," said the Council of State. Yeah, I suppose so! There are two important pillars here that matter to the seafarers and shipping in particular. One is the tax pillar, and no one can say with his heart that there are total obligatory wordings in terms of tonnage taxes and property taxes that guarantee shipping companies in relation to investments. We have also not been given legal certainty in terms of net pay schemes, as is the case in Sweden and Denmark, and are taken as a matter of course there. There are thus a number of differences between the Norwegian framework conditions and the European framework conditions. But in one area in particular, it's positive, and it's in terms of tonnage taxation. That's where the government goes in to get at the European level. But I want to ask the council directly, how's the device? In Europe, the Dutch model has been built on, although there are also some differences, but the scheme is much more flexible. Would it be possible to give some signals to those who are about to read the shipping message now about the tonnage tax arrangements? Is it being harmonised?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e668	I have to give the representative Hedstrøm quite rightly that the most important pillar for maintaining Norwegian shipping, Norwegian shipping, Norwegian shipping companies, and operating organisations in Norway, is the tax pillar. In the half-years I have been working on this message, I have had numerous interviews with Norwegian shipping companies, with the management of Norwegian shipping companies and a number of owners. And there's no doubt about what's going on for us to have shipping in Norway in the future. It's related to tax. And then there are three main elements that are included. The first is, of course, the tonnage tax system. That's what we're saying. We're going to halve the budget for next year. The second is how we tax the financial income in shipping. There we have said that we must have harmonisation with the European level. The third is how we're going to set up this system in detail. That's, as the message also shows, something we're going to get back to in St.prp. No 1 in the autumn, but I am fully aware of the issues raised by the representative Hedstrom, which are crucial for the Norwegian maritime environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e673	We in SV are committed to completing this with a net pay scheme on an international basis. And my question to the Council of State is: What has the Government and the Council of State done in relation to Nordic countries and with other European countries to take action to end the net pay system? My other question concerns the new, announced the foreign regulations in the law, which says that we can now bring in a foreign crew without work permit in the NOR fleet. What kind of attitude does the Council of State have to that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e680	First, the question of net wages and international arrangements. After Norway had introduced NIS at the end of the 1980s, there became a certain commitment in some other Nordic and Northern European countries to meet the competition that arose in its wake and the shipping policy that was established there. It must be said that since then, at both official and political level, changing governments have brought this up with our Nordic and Northern European colleagues, without success in achieving this, simply because they have not wanted it. These are things that I personally have also mentioned with my colleagues in neighbouring countries. As far as the foreign regulation is concerned, as the representative said, it is out at the hearing. Let me say it so that to the extent that the regulation should be adopted as it is, it will actually be a codification of what is current reality out there. I am not aware that any government has previously had an involvement to ensure compliance with the regulations that have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e687	As I have said in a number of speeches earlier this evening, the message presented by the Government is in a number of areas quite offensive and sketches some necessary steps. The fact that the Minister of Industry has also met with a persistent colleague in the Government who would like to be as economical as possible is so his case, but at least it outlines a very good grip. It is true, as the Minister of Industry says, that if we are to have shipping in Norway in the future, the tonnage tax is important. But that is not all, and it is not at all decisive. It is also necessary to have seafarers to secure the maritime cluster, and in that area, unfortunately, the Government fails, with the model that is outlined. It's in many ways uninteresting what we've used in the past, and how much money we spend today compared to two or three years ago. What's interesting is what the countries around us do, the competing countries, in relation to the arrangements they have put in place. And my question to the Minister of Industry is: how to ensure recruitment of jobs that are not subject to certification in the fleet [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e697	The President reminds us again that the line has to be 1 minute for questions. This also applies to responses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e700	I think the representative, Enoksen, had a timely look. It is true that when you debate matters of this kind, there will be black paint on the one hand and defence on the other. That is the way it is, but the fact that there is quite offensive and good grip in this message should be raised beyond doubt. In the case of seafarers, I have to say that in order for us to maintain the overall competence of the marine environment, as the report describes, we are totally dependent on having a significant proportion of Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. So the question is, how many do we need to maintain this competence? So it's like there's a certain commitment that we're going to have a net pay scheme in addition to that, that's also for employment reasons. Obviously, there are two different things. You'll need a certain number to override the marine environment, and what we're doing here can be called what you want, but at least that's the best thing we can do to ensure recruitment to this maritime environment. However, it is clear that this model also implies that some of the non-certificated jobs have a greater problem in relation to recruitment than if they had had a net pay scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e707	We have a government today that makes it a point that a non-fixed sequence here in the house. As a bit confused bee a warm summer day, the government sums up from one party to another, and to me it often seems as if the government is taking its inspiration from the song to Ingebrigt Davik, about the girl that's rushing on the school road, "hit a step, and there a step." One year the government gets through the budget with the help of the Progress Party, next year it's with the help of the Workers' Party, and now I realize that to the fall again it's the Progress Party that's the preferred partner. In the meantime, you can choose to work with SV in, for example. issues of climate policy, and one also receives support from SV today. In my view, this gives a reality that is very difficult to predict. The thing today is after I see it in a pattern. Last week, tax questions were not resolved. My question to the Minister of Economic Affairs is whether he feels that today's government's "liberation" leads to the prevailing conditions and stability of Norwegian business, as all demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e714	I understand that Aksensen is concerned that the government will receive support from SV, a party with which I understand they are going to be in government. But it is clear that the way the people have made this big deal, and with the people's views expressed in elections, we must take note of it. As I understand it, there does not appear to be any government option in the current ageing period that seems to be more manageable. And with all due respect, even if you can hum on the song about here a step, and there's a step in it, it has certainly led us to have a phenomenal development within what has to do with the business area. The competitiveness has returned to Norwegian business, optimism is if not "all hour high", and it is approaching. I have to say, as is true, the most important thing for the Government is to get through its policy, and we are gathering support for the places in the Storting where we have conflicting views. We've done that now. I think we'll be dependent on doing as long as we're in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e721	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e724	Everyone must have seen that large parts of our shipping industry have become increasingly competitive from a very large number of countries, because our conditions for industry are, in part, considerably worse than those of our competitors, not least for ships from EU countries. The government itself says that Norwegian shipping is an important part of Norwegian business and contributes to increasing value creation in Norway. Yes, this could of course be said to be stronger. As one of the most important industries in Norway for a very long time, the shipping industry has played a very important role in the Norwegian economy for jobs and in developing competences both at sea and on land. It is therefore incomprehensible that the Government and the Government parties do no more to ensure safe conditions for this industry as a basis for growth and development. A very illustrative example recently was the fact that last year these parties almost played gambling with the offshore companies and refused to agree to a net pay scheme. As a representative from More and Romesdal, I know the importance of this part of the shipping industry both for the region and for the country. Thanks to the opposition's strong commitment last winter and our shipping companies stopped their plans for deflagration, and we got net pay introduced. Very important jobs, both at sea and on land, were rocked. It helps to save jobs and enterprises in the shipbuilding and equipment industry. This was also very important in order to preserve the complete environment we have in the West, which has been mentioned earlier here in the debate. There is a very close link between the activity and knowledge at sea and the development of ships and equipment. It's this dense interaction that has made our shipyard industry almost unique in the world. In that case, it is not understandable that the government parties will not extend the net pay scheme to all Norwegian seafarers on board competing ships in the NOR fleet. There I thought it was obvious that the need is now visible. The coastal fleet is now in a very difficult situation, and it is extremely regrettable that the Workers' Party does not get a majority for conditions that can save this important industry and the many partly small shipping companies that are struggling very hard. But as the Minister of Economic Affairs also went into it, that's not all that's black. I am very pleased that it has succeeded in obtaining a majority for a separate guarantee scheme for building loans to ships, so that our shipyards - as it is in our competitor country - are guaranteed access to guarantees, and with that also loans. Building ships is very capital-intensive, and it makes no sense for Norwegian yards to lose contracts because of poorer arrangements than our competitors have. This is what the shipyard industry has brought up with us as representatives over and over again. This is a system that costs little or nothing for the state to implement. It is also true that the financial industry is now very unwilling to take the small risk of contributing to industrial financing, and the conditions given by industry - in this case the shipbuilding industry - are not always competitive. I also demand the Government's willingness to ensure the construction of the adopted gas ferries. Here we have a unique competence in the country, and Norwegian shipyards are ready. In addition to the activity and development of competence that these projects would entail - and I refer to what I said earlier - there are also good environmental reasons why we now need to use more gas ferries in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e743	Norway, as many have already pointed out in the debate, is one of the few countries with a complete maritime industrial environment. The environment is often defined as a cluster or network of maritime enterprises and covers everything from maritime transport to marine equipment, shipbuilding, mediation, financing, classification, research and maritime petroleum activities. The aim is to ensure that the highest possible share of value creation and employment in Norwegian maritime activities takes place in and from Norway. In the Communication, the Government has outlined the direction of a future shipping policy. The aim is to create a stable and long-term framework for industry, so that Norway remains a leading quality shipping nation. The alternative is the system that the Working Party and the Advance Party want, a system without logic, which in itself has shown that it is unstable. 20 changes have been made. I would therefore like to commend the Government for adding to a system that helps provide a framework for increased value creation, employment and tax revenue in Norway. It is very positive that the Government will take effect on the changes in the shipping tax, where the tonnage tax is proposed to be harmonised in relation to the European level. There is a great need for harmonisation of the Norwegian shipping tax system at EU level. We look forward to the government coming back with its concrete proposals for changes to the shipping tax regime in the 2005 state budget. The tax communication announced that the property tax would be halved during 2006 and 2007 and that it would then be stepped down for liquidation. This gives good conditions for Norwegian ownership, which I believe I have heard that the Workers' Party is also concerned about. But the Workers' Party obviously does not want to see the Government, by signaling the removal of property taxes, implement the main measure that can be taken to keep both ships, businesses, people and investors in that country. In fact, the government builds Norway through a comprehensive policy where the different actions and issues are related to several industries, societal areas and thus policy areas. The case rapporteur made it a point earlier this evening that it is the government's responsibility to get broad support in the Storting for its affairs. Yes, of course it has a responsibility for it, but it both surprises and disappoints that the Workers' Party has chosen such a passive approach in such an important matter. To say that more money solves everything is to wash your political hands. It is neither a will for priority nor a will for political craftsmanship. It may seem as if the Workers' Party, and in part also the Center Party and the Advance Party, believe that political leadership is blowing up a little more money all the way. It's not! An extension of the scope of the NIS vessels to take up missions on a Norwegian base could lead to a transition from NOR to NIS registration for some ships. These changes will provide greater flexibility in changing missions between Norwegian and foreign carriers while at the same time providing more uniform conditions of competition for Norwegian and foreign vessels operating in the offshore market. This measure testifies to a government that wants the best framework conditions for a competitive industry. Finally, an explanation of vote. When the right will not support minority proposals later this evening, it is not because they do not have much good in them, but the same proposals are already under the direction of the Government in relation to other issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e760	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e763	Despite the black-painting of the opposition: the Government’s maritime communication leads a long way to the EU harmonisation industry’s demand for several years. The Minister of Shipping's comments and answers this evening illustrate this very well. However, the communication also concerns other matters, such as: the safety of the sea, which I shall say a few words about. Safety at sea is characterised by a number of different actors in the form of shipping companies, brokers, agents, class companies and public authorities. The legislation and legislation in force is managed by several departments and agencies, which means that maritime transport operators must deal with several control and regulatory bodies. In particular, the Ministry of Fisheries of the Coastal Works, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade of the Directorate of Maritime Affairs and the Ministry of Environmental Protection of the Swedish Maritime Administration have an impact on maritime safety in the fairway and on board the ship, as well as on environmental safety. The Ministry of Fisheries is responsible for the supervision and control of ports and waters, including the port, lighthouse and pilotage of the State, as well as emergency pollution preparedness. Coastal states are central. The Coastal Plant ensures maritime traffic and navigation conditions in general in Norwegian areas of interest and promotes resource-efficient and economically competitive maritime transport. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is responsible for the condition of the ships with regard to the navigability of the ship, including ship structure, equipment, equipment and crew. Flag states are central here. Consequently, the overall objective of the Maritime Directorate is to ensure life, health and property in maritime activities. Internationally, the Directorate for Maritime Affairs is the representative of Norway in the IMO and EMSA. Maritime security issues are being addressed and increasingly international development appears to require greater national coordination. Most countries have also collected their coastal management in one organisation. In the Nordic region, apart from Norway, only Denmark has shared administration. A single organisation arrangement could contribute to a certain "cleaning" of the fragmented organisational structure. The users and customers are the same all the time. Along the coast, many expected the Maritime Communication to also address the issue of possible coordination between the various actors in maritime and coastal safety. The issue has been particularly focused after the crash of the "Sleipner" speedboat. In the future too, shipping accidents will occur along the coast. We're going to do our best to make it as small as possible. We can hardly claim that we do that if organisation, responsibilities and coordination are not optimal. Whether or not the current division in several departments is appropriate is, in my opinion, a good place to start the evaluation. I have a expectation that the Government will also follow up this question in the further work on the seafarers' framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e782	I want to claim that SV fails the Norwegian sailor by that they are now jumping off the agreement that was last winter and in the spring. They will no longer be with and build on this. The result of SV's vote tonight will be after all to say that réarlayer flags are out and tend to even more money - and pay nothing more in tax. Yes, there may not be any personal taxes on the riders again. This seemed good for SV. The Norwegian seafarer is seen on land, without work, and enters the queue of the unemployed and into the queues of the social office. These are probably the first people on board a cargo ship, the first ones that have to land. That's thank you, SV. So the rich are getting richer, and the seafarers are getting workless and poorer. It may well be in place to realize that what can save the total maritime line alongside what is agreed today on the tax and GIEK page, etc., is that we get to legislate a net pay scheme for all competitive maritime shipping in Norway. The Competence Model is not the solution to those problems, but it may be a good addition. Now we have to move forward, now we have to put in place a net pay system for all the competition. And it's not these schemes that have been changed. Had the Stortinget followed the Progress Party in legalising a net pay scheme, there would be no need to change these schemes 20 times, as it was called. Then I must be allowed to wonder a little about the representatives of Kristiansen and Grimstad their ways of harping on funds. I honestly believed that Kristiansen, who is a banker, knew that there was a difference between funds and the use of returns and spending money. In this way, it has to go back to the government party, which spends NOK 100 billion per year. years to set aside in funds, foreign funds, to help foreign business to compete in Norwegian business. There'll be jobs of this kind. And there might be tax income from that too. The krona is also weighted, and interest is reduced when a Norwegian company is competing with Norwegian funds placed in foreign funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e793	Net pay is a tax matter. The coastal party believes that net pay means securing a food cluster on which we are currently world leaders and which employs a total of between 70,000 and 80,000 workers along the coast. Rather, the government wants tax relief to be given to a few of the country's richest in Oslo. And that's this SV gives its support to. With the help of SV, several thousand jobs are being phased out along the coast, while with the help of the Progress Party, the amounts to secure the maritime food clusters can be distributed to a few very rich shareholders in Oslo. Several thousand of those who will lose their jobs are at an age where premature departure from the seafarer's profession bottle the value of the mariner's pension. They are of an age and have a background that makes it almost impossible to be relocated in another profession. They will switch to unemployment benefits and useless labour market measures before they end up as minimum pensioners. These are the seafarers who have paid their pension tax since they were 15 years old, and they will only get smelters again, thanks to the Government and the Swedish Government. Where's the morale? If we do not succeed in correcting the errors made tonight, before the scheme enters into force in 2006, we will be in a situation long before 2011 where the Norwegian fishing fleet has to be manned by non-residents, because qualified Norwegian seafarers will not be available. The coastal party joins the minority proposal and asks SV to think again before the matter is put to the vote. Unless SV decides to change, or government parties do not choose to focus on the clear signals from large sections of the opposition, the processing of the shipping message by Storting will contribute to an even more unstable situation for shipping. As a result, foreign ferries may be sold or must fly a foreign flag with foreign crews and Norwegian seafarers in oil-related North Sea shipping are gradually phased out. This allows even more freer use of foreign crews on ships under flags of convenience in Norwegian coastal shipping and on the continental shelf. SV’s Øystein Djupedal must have proclaimed on TV that the removal of the net pay scheme will lead to a strengthening of the competitiveness of Norwegian hotels abroad. This is an original thought. And when the idea is crazy, the result is going to be the original one.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e815	The Maritime Communication met with high expectations, expectations not least created by the Minister of Industry’s opinions prior to the submission. The greater was the disappointment when the message came. In particular, this applies to staff on board foreign trips. As a representative from Vestfold, one of the country's most important ferry companies, with large ferry traffic both to Sweden and Denmark, I look at the majority's decision to remove the net pay system for ferry workers as an accident both for the county and for the maritime industry as such. For the ferries Larvik and Sandefjord, the result will most likely be that Norwegian employees will have to land and be replaced by Swedish or Danish seafarers who will be at least 40 pst. cheaper to hire because they have a net pay scheme that the majority of the population will deprive Norwegian seafarers. Sweden and Denmark, together with the rest of the EU, have a system to make EU countries a leading area on shipping and have realised that, in order to achieve this, they must have seafarers who are competitively paid. And the EU does not distinguish between the different groups on board. Everyone is being treated the same way. All of these countries are in a much worse economic situation than Norway, but they have chosen to provide their maritime industry with competitive framework conditions because they see that this is altogether profitable. If the majority decision remains today, several thousand Norwegian seafarers will have to go ashore, and the ferries will have no choice but to fly out to Denmark or Sweden. For the part of Westfold, this will mean the direct loss of over a thousand jobs on board ferries. In addition, the administration will disappear, and in the long term, the entire maritime environment will be severely weakened. This will also affect the supplier industry and many companies supplying goods and services to the ferries. For Vestfold, the vote is an accident, and I am happy that the Progress Party is not in the majority. This short-term policy must be the responsibility of the government parties and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e834	This is a bit of a strange debate. The working party is trying to make it sound like this message is a disaster for Norwegian shipping, and in the media we have seen claims that the government wants to flag off. Of course, this is wrong. What is the case is that the government has got through the main lines of the shipping message, a message that was very well received when it was presented by the Minister of Industry two and a half months ago. The minister was almost told the genius. At least he got a lot of credit, especially for the proposal on the model of competence, which ensures maritime competence and training for all positions on NOR and NIS ships. In addition, even all offshore fleet seafarers will continue to be included in the net pay regime. In addition, NIS ships are granted access to Norwegian pedestal. From that part of the country I come from, Sunnhordland, where it is part of this type of shipping company, this is very welcome. That's what we've been working for a long time. It will give companies with NIS and NOR ships greater flexibility and thus competitiveness. The Government is also committed to harmonising the tonnage tax with the European level and to harmonising the shipping tax more closely in terms of financial income. Then we've heard that the government parties fail the NOR Seafarers in shipping. If this group of seafarers had been important to the Workers' Party, they might have considered transferring funds to this group from the net pay system for hotel, shop and restaurant staff on board floating hotels and conference places, positions competing in completely different labour markets. The Workers' Party has not been interested in this. The pressure from strong trustees in organisations on such ships was too strong. I understand that the Aksensen and the Workers' Party are disappointed that they have not received anything for Norwegian shipping. However, it has the government - to the joy of the shipping industry and people along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e849	It's natural when this case has got the outcome that she has, that one will try to blame someone. I believe that the government party wants to give me a reply. There have been allegations today that there is a need for marking from me and the Labour Party that it has not been possible to get anything into this matter. I will strongly reject that. In fact, I would also say that I think I would have been a much more popular man if I could have made myself a spokesman for a stable plurality in this matter today. It has unfortunately not been possible. Now it's not normal to do good for the conversations that have been between different parties, especially when there are no results. But since it has been insinuated that I have not tried to get a setup, I can tell you that I have been to SV several times. One has also taken it up at the parliamentary level, but SV gave early notice that they had nothing more to give in this area. To that end, SV here has been consistent, and promised nothing else. A multiple of SV, however, would not have led to a broad compromise, because it would have simply become a narrow multiple that would have forced through its vision. Therefore, it has always been my desire to come up with a scheme of government parties. It was early clear that the government party had nothing to give when it came to heads and ears. So one had to find a solution within today's $10 bills. That is, the government wanted to take from one type of seafarer and give to another. So within that scenario, we had different priorities. The government claims to have a historically high level of permissions for this region. That's absolutely right. What they don't include is that it wouldn't have been like that if it had been the government that decided. The government has fought with beaks and claws against the net pay arrangements for seafarers on ferries and has also been very active to try to prevent the arrangements we got for the offshore fleet. I am glad that one has dropped the rematch on the offshore vessel, but I am of course less happy that one has now managed to get the SV to remove the support arrangements for our ferries. What I experienced was an ultimatum from the government party where we actually had a chance to vote for the government's arrangement, which, in my view, was not good enough to create a lasting settlement, simply because in that arrangement there was a discrimination that would be difficult to explain. When the situation is still so bad, I mean that one should not paint black, and I would like to point out that I did not do that in my post. On the contrary, I drew out what was positive. Nevertheless, the situation for those working on the ferries is, of course, anything but light tonight. They've actually been told from the majority here in the hall to find something else to do, and I think it must be allowed for us who disagree in that policy to point out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e868	I take the floor to respond to the violent attacks from Solholm and the Advance Party and, in part, from Bastesen. It is said that SV somehow fails the cargo vessels completely. I'll deal with that. We in SV have had a steady dialogue with the seafarers on the cargo ships, at least since I came to the Stortinget--and long before that too, I think. SV is interested in finding good solutions. Today we have outlined two interesting proposals. We're looking for other solutions, where it's arranged so that we can get more cargo on the cargo vessels - off the road. I outlined in my main post why we are against the net pay scheme. We need to find other types of solutions that can help stimulate more shipping and that can in some way help this industry. Then it's said by the representative of Solholm that we're about to get the seafarers off the boat and into the social queues. It's not SV's policy - it's possible that this would have happened with the Progress Party's policy. In SV, we have a comprehensive policy for people who become unemployed. If this happens to a seafarer, we have a scheme called labour market policy, where we want to help those who become unemployed - whether they are in industry, in the public sector or there are seafarers - to other types of tasks. Norway needs people, and we actually trust that the Norwegian sailor - if he is supposed to be unemployed - can be used for anything other than working on a boat. It is possible that the Progress Party has a different view of this, that they want these people to be given social assistance. We have a different, comprehensive policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e883	What the Progress Party wants is to allow Norwegian seafarers to do what they want, and what they want to do, and what they thought the Stortinget would give them the opportunity to be on board Norwegian boats on the world ocean. That SV will retrain them, hunt them on land and then retrain them, get so much. But I claim – and I say that – that SV has failed in relation to what was said and done in February last year – on 27 February, if I do not think completely wrong. It also becomes a bit parochial when a financier political spokesman in SV, Øystein Djupedal, says that if we get rid of the net payroll scheme for ferry companies, we will strengthen the hotel industry in Norway. But that's not what happens. Ferry companies flag out, and then added the foreign seafarers, maybe they even added to the seamen from low-cost countries, and then they'll sail on exactly the same routes and compete with Norwegian hotels. It's not real. But what made me take the floor was that I thought the representative Arnesen was somewhat bold when he said that the Labour Party is the only party one can trust when it concerns seafarers. It's actually a positive error. I have been in the United Kingdom since 1989, except for four years, and if it is a party that has been committed to maritime policy since 1989, it is the Progress Party. The working party has wings. They have proposed several times to reduce, remove, remove the reimbursement arrangements we have had, and come back. It has simply been a position in which, whenever they have been in government, they have proposed to remove it, and when they have a seat in opposition, they have the will to introduce it - and raise it. What's positive is that we're now actually up in three operations of this arrangement where the Workers' Party has been fixed. I'm glad; we in the Progress Party are very happy about that. What's a shame is that SV is now hanging on the wingline: last year they voted for a net pay scheme for the ferry companies, now they're going against, and there's a situation where the framework for this part of the industry is not fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e894	Steinar Bastesen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e897	I'll try to be short. The tourism industry is of little economic importance for Norwegian jobs in relation to the maritime industry, with boats, seafarers, oil, shipyards and other related industries. Seafarers and oilworkers in the maritime clusters in Rogaland and in the country are also given their thoughts about the plans of the Government and the SV. The same applies to workers in the shipyard clusters in More and Romesdal, and otherwise in the country that loses a thousand, perhaps more, jobs by giving the commission to the heavily subsidized shipyards in Spain. What will the government parties and SV say on the day the same ferries fly the Danish or Swedish flag with net paid crews on the same routes where boats with Norwegian crews used to go before? The maritime industry is facing a fateful hour, caused by a majority on the Stortinget. The main challenge for Norwegian shipping companies, shipyards and organisations is that they have the same framework conditions as the maritime sector in other EU countries. The behaviour of politicians in the frigate case has increased the public's mistrust of the Norwegian political system. How are we going to be credible when we say that we are betting on training and education of Norwegian seafarers, but we are delivering jobs to foreign seafarers? The government is trying to shut down the maritime industry. I didn't think that would work. But they do it--day by day! Otherwise, I'd say we don't sell Norway a bit by bit. The Coast Party is against it!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e918	My advice to the Coast Party is that they might start by reading what Norway's Fiskerlag has said in terms of net pay. It could have been a good start before you jump out like you do in today's debate, with such a high and long jump. The second thing I want to say is that the Progress Party has to figure out that, when there is a rinse-off on so-called lack of follow-up from that team, you allow yourself to ask questions about whether the Progress Party has money left for Norwegian seafarers, when you on the wish list yesterday had NOK 50 billion. Unfortunately, I didn't take enough in, it wasn't 30 billion kroner you had, it was 30 billion to power, and then it was 20 billion to tax relief to the petroleum sector -- plus today's 75 billion bid in increased costs to the transport sector. And we're this week just coming to Tuesday! When the Axis feels like a response in this matter, it is of course a wrong image. No one has to take on that role in this debate. But I think we're doing the Norwegian maritime sector, the Norwegian maritime industry, a bear service when we're about to hang a grieving framework around this debate. It cannot be described as anything but a failure to reach either the level of ambition or that of others. And when it's used the term that "the bigger was the disappointment," and "it's just crumbs again," this doesn't depend on the reality that this case is associated with. There's a message that draws up some principal guidelines that I have a sense of having a great deal of excitement in this room, and, I repeat, that gets a donation from the Norwegian state that is historically high. The accent and others know that what is proposed at this level is to be continued. More interesting are the expectations such as: The representative, Mr Akselsen, refers to the Workers' Party, that it will be able to increase this historically high level in line with the proposals put forward here today. One thing is that you pass approx. 300 million. kr more, the second is what the tax relief figure may mean. And that's going to be very interesting. I think, for the sake of Norwegian maritime nutrition, it's probably time to find a slightly softer landing on this debate than anyone tries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e929	We are now at the brink of this debate on the shipping communication. It will be difficult for any party, with its hand on its heart, to make a realistic summary. We must all agree that with what is in the communication, the future of Norwegian shipping will be marked by great uncertainty. Now it's up to those who want to bet out, to spend their own money, either by continuing the ships and installations on Norwegian hands or by investing in Norwegian seafarers with the deterioration of the arrangements that will result from this treatment. Norwegian shipping is historically in the midst of a negative trend. We know that large Norwegian shipping companies are purchased. Bergesen, one of the world's largest tanker companies, has been purchased by a shipping company in Hong Kong, and after that the shipping company has earned huge sums of money. We also know that the world's largest shipowners for bend loaders, Navion, have been purchased by Teekay in Canada. This is a negative trend. The uncertainty created by the decisions to be taken here tonight, I think, would hardly be an improved situation or any hope for those who are going to make investments, who are going to buy and sell and provide Norwegian maritime operations. I want to comment on some of the posts. First, to the representative Slungård. There is a great difference between using and consuming national resources. It is proven that Norwegian shipping represents the second strongest value creation in Norway, with DKK 40-50 billion in value creation every year. So by spending a little of public money on this sector, trying to approach what is being done in the EU, you have enormous competence and value creation. There's a big difference. So to the representative of Arnesen, who is a former sailor. I had not expected you to start criticising the Progress Party. Since I was the case rapporteur for the last shipping report in 1996, we have always been responsible for what we have promised. And when it comes to the issue of work permits on the coast, the Workers' Party must also accept that we need time to hear all the hearing bodies and draw the conclusions we want. It is a responsibility to do so and not to reach hasty conclusions. So to SV and the representative of Djupedal's opinions on removing the net pay arrangements. It won't help Norwegian hotels. What will happen then is that the ferry companies have two alternatives: they can fly out to flags of convenience and get foreign ratings, or they can fly out to Sweden and Denmark and get net pay arrangements with the resulting teams. Color Line spends a lot of time on tourism and does it professionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e942	First to the representative Akselsen, who felt that he might get a little bit of "driving" here. But it is clear that when the Axis in its main post is so much directed against the government party as well as sending out a press release when the setting was presented, where Mr. The accent is stated above the government party's total lack of negotiating willingness and willingness to settle, is my intention to point out that it is actually not correct. It is also known by the representative of Olav Akselsen. Then we can probably spend a lot of time discussing here, but we've had the will to negotiate, and we've had the will to re-prioritize. It is quite right that we have had a framework to take care of, but the Labour Party could have been with and influence within the framework if they wanted to. But I think it's important to say, as Ivar Kristiansen also said in his post, that here is a lot of positive also for the shipping industry. The Storting message is called "Wild to Growth--for Norwegian shipping and the maritime industries," and is a good starting point. Most of the parties want a good and strong maritime nutrition in Norway. There is a slightly different angle of incidence to how one should solve this, but I think the industry has reason for optimism. As we see in the media, there's also a team of riders who say they want to fly back to Norway, based on the signals that have arrived. I think we all have a common task in the future to stand by together and ensure the best possible framework conditions for nutrition and to keep up the promises we have made here today. I have good faith that we can manage to arrive at constructive and good solutions for this incredibly important industry as the shipping industry is, based on the number of jobs and the amount of value creation it contributes to in Norway. Finally, I would say that there is reason for optimism. So there's a little explanation of vote, to take it right away. The Christian People's Party, and I assume that it applies to all the government parties, will vote against all the minority proposals. That doesn't mean we're disunity in everything that's lying there. There may be elements that can be positive, and in which we may also be partly a few, but in which we do not find reason to instruct the Government. Of course, when it comes to the Roma proposals, we will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 and Romantic Decision IV, but the rest we will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e963	I feel that I have to correct some of the errors of the Advance Party, as they have said a number of things like what SV stands for in this setting and in the shipping policy, which is not right. Let me first take a little bit of what the Progress Party actually is. Almost no matter who you may be, just you're rich and powerful enough and knocking on the door of the Progress Party, they're willing to give you the taxes you're asking for. The majority had to deal with only a few days ago a tax reform, where the Advance Party was the party that, of course, went the longest in relief in taxation for any conceivable object. Just before that, we had an oil and energy message to process, where the Progress Party would give NOK 10 billion in tax relief to Norwegian oil companies. The starting point of the Progress Party is that only you are rich and powerful enough, you get tax relief in buckets and buckets. It's interesting for these people to know, and we also see that in today's attitude: the party that's going the longest. Let me also say to the representative Hedstrøm, who is talking about Bergesen being flagged out. We're sorry about that. I believe that a large part of those who are engaged in Norwegian value creation are sorry that large, Norwegian, proud shipping companies or other businesses are being flagged out. But there's nothing the Greatness can do about it, unfortunately. Bergesen makes a completely commercial assessment of this. The framework conditions for this type of shipping activity in Norway are very good. Bergesen knows that, this was an offer you couldn't refuse. One cannot blame the storeroom, or, for that matter, the SV or whoever it might be, because Norwegian, ordinary private-sector companies make commercial assessments. We cannot prevent this, even if we would like to see Bergesen still under the Norwegian flag and in Norway. So to what's the background to much of this debate: I'm a little surprised, to say it straight out, that one of our oldest, most proud industries - Norwegian shipping companies and Norwegian maritime operations - has made itself dependent on state aid in the way you have here. The shipping companies have been able to build up a myth over the last ten years that they are in a very special competitive situation compared to very many other Norwegian industries. Nothing could have been more wrong than that. Hydro is constantly in competition all over the world with people who have another tax regime and lower tax-- Statoil: just the same thing. Any Norwegian business that is in competition internationally will always be able to meet someone who can offer lower taxes than we can in Norway. But what we have in Norway is a social contract, where employers and employees contribute something to the community. This means that Norwegian companies operating and living in Norway should pay taxes - must pay taxes - because it is part of this contract that builds a good society, building schools and kindergartens for our young and older institutions for our elderly. It is this contract SV wants to continue. That's why we can't say to the maritime industries, even if they come and knock on our door: Yes, you will get tax relief. No, we want the maritime industry - which is a proud, old and great Norwegian industry - to participate in the social contract and build this society further.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e976	I'm not going to help pull this debate out. I just want to say to the representative Hedstrøm when he expresses disappointment at my statements: What I think Norwegian seafarers are disappointed about is that the Progress Party will not take away from changes in regulations relating to work permits. It is obvious that this will open up competition even more, and I think there are many who are disappointed that the Progress Party does not stand by its support for Norwegian seafarers. It is now time to vote on this, and I note that the Progress Party is voting against stopping those changes. There has been a lot of discussion about the ferry competition with Norwegian hotels. It is probably so that these ferries generate traffic to Norwegian hotels and not from Norwegian hotels. I think it must be better that we have Norwegian seafarers on these ferries than we have foreigners. So to Djupedal: The industry hasn't made itself dependent on such support -- it's got them because of the competitive situation that's outside the country's borders. This does not apply to tax relief to the rich, to keeping ordinary Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. This applies not least to district jobs - jobs in all Norwegian municipalities, wherever they may be. It is also important, not least, to ensure a strong maritime activity along the coast. I want to say it so strongly that I think Djupedal and SV have misunderstood this. It's not about subsidising the shipping companies, but it's about keeping Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e987	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3366]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1001	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3369]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1015	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3370]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1029	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1038	I'm happy with this year's agricultural policy as it came to port. I am pleased that we have an agreement with both organisations to strengthen the position of agriculture and to have a good framework for the future. We have received a small increase in the target prices of approx. Forty million. kr. Otherwise, there is agreement on a scheme aimed at an income increase in agriculture of about 3 p.m. and that the industry will retain a substantial share of the productivity gain over the period 2002-2005. I would like to thank the Committee for its broad support for this statement. All, except for the Progress Party, vote in favour of the agreement and take a positive view of the main elements of the agreement. This is an important feedback to agriculture. Mening measurements show that the industry has great support, trust and understanding in the Norwegian population. More than 80 pst. expresses a positive attitude towards the level of aid and the framework conditions that agriculture currently has. At the same time, there are organisations based on the industry that are among the most trusted in the Norwegian population. All of this is satisfactory and should provide the basis for a good future for the industry. Economic developments have given good incentives to agriculture. Reduced labour consumption and reduced real interest rates have given rise to increased revenues. At the same time, the decrease in the number of annual works has been less than initially assumed. The agreement provides a good basis for each farmer to pursue his profession as a self-employed person, with good prospects for a decent income. Internationally, there are some challenges that agriculture focuses heavily on, together with growth and government. The WTO process is continuing. It is important that the Norwegian negotiating positions are closed, that a sufficient customs guard is provided, and that an internal support is maintained, and otherwise the arrangements that ensure that agriculture can have viable conditions in the future. It is important that agriculture adapts to a situation of increasing trade and internationalisation in the countries facing Norway. The agricultural agreement of the year has also focused on the continuation of the objectives of Agriculture Plus. The aim is to increase the provisions for industrial development, investment aid, municipal resources and modernisation of BU funds to increase the flexibility and achievement of the objectives of the industry. It is also important that the training given to professionals in the industry leads to greater competence for action. The purpose of the industry is 10 pst. production by 2010 shall be organic. I believe it is important that the public and industry together provide a stronger motivation for achieving this important goal. The agricultural market balance is very satisfactory. It's actually a part to go on when it's about meat, and some possibilities to expand production in this field. It is also positive to note that there is a great deal of investment and maintenance in agriculture, which is an expression of the optimism that we would like to stimulate. The agricultural agreement of the year also includes environmental plans that give local communities and users greater responsibilities when it comes to finding the right initiatives to take care of the environment and the cultural landscape, finding the right means to keep the landscape in claim and ensure sensible production. All in all, I feel as case spokesman that it is right to say that there is a basis for believing that the agreement provides a broad framework for a development that can provide optimism and a threat to the future in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1070	Like the rapporteur, I am pleased that there is a negotiated agreement between the state and the agricultural organisations. Of course, not everyone is satisfied with the negotiations, but the alternative, that the state's offer had come to the Stortinget and the Progress Party had given it its approval, would at least not have been an acceptable solution for the agricultural industry. So, like the case rapporteur, I would like to commend the parties for the fact that there was an agreement. For the Workers’ Party, it was important that the parties also reach an agreement on the Storting’s intention in last year’s settlement, namely that agriculture should retain a substantial share of the productivity gain. The working party is pleased that the parties followed this up and that agriculture will maintain the efficiency gains under the agreement. In the view of the Labour Party, this is very good, and we expect this to be reflected in the negotiation of the 2005/2006 income year by the contracting parties. There's a lot of demands on the industry. Changes are rapid and therefore it is important that efficiency gains remain in the industry. The majority of the Committee also agrees on a wording in which they ask the Ministry to provide the Storting with an appropriate assessment of the impact of amended legislation with structural effects. There is no doubt that there is a dramatic transformation and conversion into Norwegian agriculture. The number of agricultural holdings has fallen from 99 400 to 58 000, i.e. a reduction of 40 pst. during the period 1989-2003. Over the period 1999-2003, the decrease was 20 pst. and it appears that an increasing proportion of these uses exceed 200 deches. Although the area that goes out of operation is taken over by others, there's no doubt that we're in a time of great structural change. When we here in Stortinget treated St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, on Norwegian agriculture and food production, we said that one had to expect a moderate change in structure. Today there is a reduction of 10 use per user. today, and it goes without saying that this is not moderate. We are therefore pleased that the government parties will also look at this in the light of the decisions taken. We trust that the Minister of Agriculture will find a suitable and good form of such a review. We have discussed the WTO on agriculture many times earlier in this Chamber. The majority of the Committee points out that the Stortinget has previously given its support to the negotiating mandate and also appears to have adopted a good strategy by the Minister of Agriculture to maximise the content of the mandate. We are aware that this is not an easy matter, and the industry is also affected by uncertainty about what will be the final result. But as I said, we are pleased with the line the Minister of Agriculture has outlined, and the countries of cooperation he has chosen. In the Workers' Party, we are very positive that the parties agree that a national overall strategy for work on value creation and industrial development and coordination of instruments of use should be developed. It is often the small and medium-sized farms that want to develop complementary industries, and it is therefore good that work on the strategy design and coordination of programmes is carried out, in cooperation with Innovation Norway and the Ministry of Agriculture. There is no doubt that future farmers will see the farm to a far greater extent than today as an overall possibility of income, and that the parties have agreed in this area is good. The challenge may be in relation to the training of future drivers, because they may need to be professionals in more areas than today. The Parties agree that an overall allocation for organic farming will be increased by 5 million. kr. There is no doubt, as the rapporteur was also concerned, that it will be a challenge to meet the target, 10 pst. organic production until 2010. Coping with the volume of production is one thing, another challenge is to have the goods marketed as organic products. In particular this applies to milk and meat. There is no doubt that agriculture has major challenges. In this context, it is good to know that the vast majority of people in this country believe that we should have an agriculture that represents good and safe food, ensures the settlement and maintains our cultural landscape. In the Labour Party, we will not overshadow the challenges, but do our best to stick to the goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1098	For the third consecutive year, the parties to the agricultural settlement have been some of the agreements. As other people have done, agricultural income is calculated to increase by about 18 pst. per 1 % annual work from 2002 to 2004. The revenue increase for other groups has increased by about 8,5 pst over the same period. This means that agriculture has retained a substantial share of productivity growth. Within the framework of the agreement, the parties expect agriculture to receive an income increase of 3 pst. also next year. The Parties note that the 2004 agricultural agreement provides for an increase in income for the period 2002 to 2005 which is, as a percentage, higher than for other groups. This occurs at the same time as transfers from the State budget have been reduced by nearly $1 billion in the last three years, during a period of tight fiscal policies. Since 1985, transfers as a percentage of the state budget have decreased from 7 pst. to 2 pst. The right is also well-accompanied by several of the structural measures taken in the agreement, particularly in relation to milk production. This is a change in the way you use it, including: with a view to harmonising the legislation on milk producers, in order to make individual use more equal to cooperatives. This implies a simplification of the legislation. An increase in the single use milk quota of 125 000 litres allows economies of scale. The activity requirement for joint ventures is terminated and the conditions for joint ventures improved. There will also be a freeer translation of milk quotas. Up to 60 pst. the milk quota can now be sold in the market before each state, at a freely agreed price - a double in relation to today. Eastfold, Vestfold, Oslo and Akershus are merged into one milk region so that milk quotas can be sold and purchased throughout this Oslofjord region. According to the Right's view, the government's agricultural policy frees the farmer, and allows farmers to drive more profitable, either by driving more use or by investing in niche production. As a result of structural developments, the number of agricultural holdings has fallen by 40 pst. in the period 1989-2003, i.e. in a period of varying governments, with the participation of both the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right. Relatively, the reduction has been greatest in Austria and Northern Norway. Agriculture represented 3.6 pst. of total employment in 2003. The area used by those who leave operation is mainly taken over by other uses, either by sale or by rental. In the last five years, the reduction in total agricultural area has been estimated at 0.2 pst. The reduction in the agricultural area is due to the reduction in the area of cereals and other arable crops, and has mainly come to Austria. Efficiency and structuralisation will over time reduce the costs of the production of goods. This is necessary for agriculture to be competitive in a future of increasing trade and internationalisation at industrial and trade levels and to continue to be able to produce the common good which is the main basis for the level of transfers. International conditions are increasingly leading the development of national agricultural policy. In particular, a new WTO agreement could have a major impact on the formulation of agricultural policy in the future. This is likely to apply to both the level of support, alignment and market mechanisms. Although it is unclear at what time a new WTO agreement will be ready, and what extent it will be, the direction seems to be clear. The agricultural negotiator has just been visiting the Stortinget. His ambition is to have a framework for an agreement clear at the end of July. This is an ambition supported by the WTO Member States. The government believes that gradual adaptation in such a situation is an important contribution to the future fulfilment of Norwegian agriculture’s social tasks. Although the processing and marketing of agricultural products is mainly outside the scope of the Agreement on Agriculture, the processing and translation sectors are important both for employment and value creation and for the means of income in agriculture. Much of the food industry is based on Norwegian raw materials, while being increasingly exposed to international competition. It would be particularly serious for Norwegian agriculture if the Norwegian food industry were to be out of competition. The right is therefore pleased that this statement only means a marginal increase in the target prices and that there is a reduction in the target prices of most meat products. There are many other areas that you would like to enter, but the time is unfortunately not yet. Finally, I just want to briefly mention organic farming. The market development of most organic products is not satisfactory. I think a partial explanation can be given with a general high trust in the Norwegian people in the way Norwegian agriculture is operated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1117	The negotiated agreement between the country and the agricultural organisations involves a reduced framework of 170 million. DKK and reduced budget support by 410 million. NOK, while target prices are increased by 40 million. kr. The three main objectives pursued are the continued efficiency of agriculture, the transfers are to be adapted to the Norwegian positions in the WTO negotiations, and there must be simplification of grant and compensation schemes. The party notes that the Government does not use this time either the possibility of a change of course in agricultural policy, which could result in a much more efficient production, processing and marketing of agricultural products. A postponement of this process, an example of which is farming, will be harmful to agriculture in the long term. The proposals that could really matter were negotiated away - unfortunately, we believe. I am thinking then of the Ministry's proposal to double the maximum quota for milk, the possibility of quota rental and reduced target prices as examples of this. The few results that are moving towards more flexible and cost-effective solutions are far from sufficient to achieve the necessary pace of adaptation of Norwegian agriculture to an international competitive situation that we all know is coming. It's just questions of time. Target prices are also increasing this year, even though the increase has been less than usual in previous years. Here, the state in the negotiations should stand firm on its initial position, which would give us a target price reduction for agricultural products of approx. 150 million. kr. If we are to be able to maintain a viable agriculture, it is a prerequisite that, among other things, the food industry provides a basis for profitable production. For the meat industry in Norway, the commodity price is between 50 and 60 pst. the costs, depending on the species of meat. High commodity prices are propagating through all stages of the food value chain. The meat industry is already under severe pressure from international competition on the Norwegian market through imported finished products and border trade. Increased target prices exacerbate the situation, in particular when new food taxes and potential increased costs are introduced if the package method of CO-packaging gas is not allowed after 1 July of this year. Developments are worrying because commodity price differences towards Europe are increasing. NIFL's annual report, Food and Industry, shows a clear development for meat and cheese. While the prices of these key food products in the EU are being flattened or reduced, we are experiencing a marked rise in prices here at home. Figures from SIFO also show a sharp price increase in Norwegian food, a higher price increase than the general price increase. Prices are confirmed to have increased slightly more than in Sweden since October 2002, which is the reference point of the SIFO survey. This is also a development contrary to the Sem Declaration’s intention to reduce food price differences between Norway and our neighbouring countries. It is now high time to start a process away from the plan economy in agriculture, in order to increase profitability. We must get away from a development where the peasants have been deprived of their ownership and their right of self-determination, handed over and made dependent on the favor of the politicians. All essential ownership functions have been taken over by politicians and bureaucrats through concession laws, so that farmers cannot freely buy or sell agricultural land or choose the form of farming, not even determine the number of chickens or the number of pigs they want to produce, could not start milk production without having bought the milk quota and much, much more. The Norwegian farmer is basted and bound on the hands and feet of allowances and regulatory arrangements. If they are not followed, and the farmer thinks and acts himself, yes, then he gets criminalized. These include: must be done, we believe, is to give more leeway to industrious farmers for their own development by lifting concessional limits in the Law on Acquired Farming, removing a good part of the production restrictions and abolishing restrictions on the sale of land and forest property. By reducing the level of regulation that prevents agriculture from being rational and efficient, the growth rate could be restored in the industry. It follows that we will repeal the system of an agricultural agreement. We will then get back the farmer we once had, who was exponent of freedom and independence in our country. I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1134	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1137	I think we should try to move a little bit more of the agricultural debate back to Stortinget. I think that at the speed we now see in agriculture, we should probably get more agricultural debate into this room. When we debate farming and that is agreement, we take note of it, which is natural, but the debate in the national Parliament disappears in that way. I think there are two areas that require us to take a more thorough agricultural policy debate. The first is that many farmers are ahead of big investments. If you're going to build a new feather, you're talking about investments that will last for 20-30 years. There is also a very long time perspective on machinery and equipment, and many are uncertain about the future of Norwegian agricultural policy. Is it reasonable for a 25-year-old girl to bet on agriculture, or is it too daunting? What do we want with Norwegian agriculture? Is it life prepared to be a farmer in North Norway, etc.? That debate, I think, we're going to go back to the staging room. I encourage the Council of States to facilitate that we can have a more thorough debate on it. The second thing we have to debate is the enormous development of structure every year. I think this is accelerating. When we hear that there are ten uses being laid down every single day, there is an enormous pace in relation to this with structuralization. We'll soon have less than 50,000 uses. We don't know what's going to happen in the next few years, but everything indicates that this will continue. These questions need to be debated more thoroughly in the main hall. For as I see the situation now, it is up to the Council of State and the negotiators to make some agreements in connection with the agricultural negotiations that Stortinget more or less accepts, without making a little more premise. That is why I would like to refer to the joint motion that the Central Party and the SV have promoted, No. 7, and record it, so I won't forget it at the end of my post. Then I'd like to comment on two other issues. The first thing goes on with organic production. We record that the production has now reached over 3 pst. It's still a bit up to 10 pst. But we're recording that we're moving forward, and the impressions I get when I'm around meeting farmers are that there are more and more people interested in adding organic production. But there's one term that doesn't hang out with, and that's the market segment. So you haven't been able to profile the organic products, and it turns out that organic products are not sold in proportion to the production that is. Therefore, I would strongly urge the Council of States to take a take-off at the level of organic production, so that this type of product is dealt with more offensively, both in the form of campaigns and in cooperation with the chains. The last thing I want to mention in my post is what the Minister of Agriculture has been flagging for three years now, Agriculture Pluss. Then I would like to refer to a common remark from all the parties in the committee that I think is very pleasing. "The Committee believes that the framework conditions for niche producers need to be improved in order to achieve further progress in this production. One of the priority areas is simplification of the legislation on farm and small slaughterhouses." That a unanimous committee is behind this, we think we are very, very good, because we want to make an effort now, so that it will be easier for those who want to invest in niche production, both in terms of regulation and in relation to other framework conditions. I would strongly urge the Council of State to address a unanimous comitology and to make it possible for these slaughterhouses to be able to slaughter at home and process their products in line with the intentions of Agriculture Pluss. Until today, a lot of people have felt that it is so demanding that they have actually not dared to start with their own production, because both taxes, regulations and other conditions have made it almost impossible to start up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1157	This year, too, there is a negotiated agreement between the country and the agricultural organisations. But as the head of the Farmers' and Small Farms' team said at the open hearing in the nutrition committee, the industry felt compelled to enter into this agreement in order to avoid the opening offer being presented to the Stortinget, where, of course, everyone knew that the Government would have a majority for its opening offer with the support of the Progress Party, an offer that the Progress Party's representative has embraced here today. Of course, it is not difficult to reach an agricultural agreement if only the opening offer is bad enough and the willingness to move a little in the negotiations by the state at all is present, precisely because a disastrously poor opening offer could hit the industry in a way that responsible organisations cannot accept. That is why you are almost forced to enter into an agreement. In my opinion, this is little for the Government and the positioning parties to adorn themselves with, at a time when the industry is under continuous pressure, and where we experience structural changes that are bigger and go faster than ever before. The opening offer provided by the State facilitated the doubling of milk production on individual uses, for quota rentals, the increased direct turnover of allowances between farmers. Activity requirements in joint ventures and additional production grants should be removed, as should distance criteria in joint ventures. Overall: in total, this implies strong driving forces on structural changes, especially in milk production, structural changes which cannot be said to be in line with the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 and the majority of them at that time. It is quite right, as the representative Inge Ryan said in his statement: this actually means that important parts of Norwegian agricultural policy have been lifted out of this room and into the annual agricultural negotiations. According to the opinion of the Centre Party, this is unacceptable. It is the Stortinge that is to decide on this type of important decision. It is therefore appropriate to promote, in a short and timely manner, a major communication on agricultural policy which can help to ensure that the debate on structure takes place here and not in these annual negotiations, as it is now done, and in which the Storting has in many ways no choice but simply to join what is contained in a negotiated agreement. The pre-negotiable income framework involves a very tight chord. It's a very small rash that's going to happen before the many demanding assumptions can't be met. It implies a tight balance sheet to be able to meet the assumptions underlying a 3 pst growth in income. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it is not the worst thing about what is in the agreement that you have a very tight settlement for a single year. What is worst is the strong structural changes that it facilitates, which, in combination with a tight income statement over time, will lead to structural changes that will weaken the role of agriculture both in the context of rural policy and not least in the role of multifunctional agriculture, where milk production is central, and where major changes will result in a strong impact on precisely these functions. A majority of the Committee considers that it is also desirable to facilitate real co-operation in the future. The government's plan to remove the activity requirement and the additional production grant, or rather the operating grant, will mean that we will see a transition from real joint ventures and for use where only one of the parties is active. This is not a development that was the prerequisite for joint ventures, nor should it be a development that should be desirable for any of the parties. I see that it is also included as part of the protocol that we should look at schemes that are intended to ensure that active drivers are taken into account in the joint operation. This is absolutely necessary, and the majority of the Committee has also emphasised this, in the same way as a majority of the Committee also stresses the need and importance of maintaining a competitive food industry. It also requires that the use of budgetary resources should not be reduced, as has been done in the last two years, by a substantial reduction in budgetary resources. If the food industry is to be maintained, offensive measures must be taken to that end.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1172	For the third consecutive year of the Co-operation Government, the outcome of the agricultural negotiations will be dealt with in the Grand Duchy as negotiated, this year with both agricultural organisations. It is an agreement that continues the thinking of agricultural policy on the basis of which the last settlements have been settled and which is described in the Stortingen's treatment of the agricultural notification in 2000 and the treatment of the last years' agreements. When I repeat agreements, it is to emphasise that this is a policy that the agricultural organisations have also found to be able to take responsibility for after negotiations. It is an agreement that combines several important aspects: a trend in income for the period 2002-2005 which is clearly stronger than for other groups of increased opportunities for those who will develop their agricultural holding, especially in milk production, this year, and more similar opportunities for all forms of organisation to increase efforts in alternative business development, with increased responsibilities and powers at local and regional level, inter alia. By modernising the rural development funds, a stronger and more targeted environmental policy, with a safer basis in the WTO agreement This has been possible within a lower financial framework than the current agreement has. The main reasons for this are the reduction in real interest rates and the increase in labour productivity, which several have experienced. That's how long it's been. The total remuneration of the agricultural sector for labour and capital – i.e. before it is deducted from interest on borrowed capital and divided by the number of annual works – is slightly lower in 2004 than 10 years ago. Cost reduction and increased labour productivity are the basis for per capita income growth. agricultural mills. It will also be the main direction forward, at least for volume productions. At the same time, we need to strengthen and target efforts for business development and stimulate entrepreneurship, and the geographical priority must be firm. It is then necessary to increase the armpit for milk producers and give them opportunities - reduce the restrictions. This agreement provides for increased flexibility for operational users. In a more open world, this is not contrary to the objective of a comprehensive and decentralised agriculture in the future, but a prerequisite for it. For milk producers, the Agreement provides for the convergence of the possibilities of cooperation solutions and developments with respect to all other productions. When the agricultural notification was addressed in 2000, the Stortinget concluded that structural changes are needed, especially in milk production, and that farmers' livelihoods must be given priority. The agreement is based on this basis. One of the most important agricultural policy issues is: What should be the alternative? It is estimated that in ten years' time, without structural changes, transfers will have to be DKK 8-9 billion higher than today if agriculture is to be able to achieve income development as other groups. We have to give those who want to bet on a profession in the industry the opportunity. I, like the SVs and the representatives of the Central Party in the Committee, have recorded greater optimism in the industry in the last few years. This is due to lower interest rates and improved income. But I am also convinced that more people have seen the opportunities created by agricultural policy and agricultural agreements in recent years, the opportunities to develop their use, to withstand competitive commodity prices and a possible increase in interest rates again, to bet on something new, to do something that the father and grandfather didn't do. It's challenging and basic for recruiting girls and boys with the right skills. We need to have active agriculture across the country, an efficient and more diverse agriculture, an agriculture that takes environmental considerations, based on national leadership and local priorities, an agriculture with farmers who want to and have the opportunity to meet the challenges we see. It requires some balances for different reasons in policy-making. The agricultural agreement of the year is part of such thinking. I am pleased that the agricultural organisations have taken responsibility and concluded agreements within these various cross-cutting considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1210	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1213	The majority of the Stortinget has, in a comment, and the SV and the Centre in a minority proposal, expressed the structural challenges we have. It is clear that the opening offer has a device that, had it been adopted, would have affected the structure even more than the negotiated result results. In 14 years, 40 pst. of the uses have been lost. Now, of course, the Western Council knows well, but Hordaland has a lot of small uses. 75 pst. from 15 cows down, and the rest of the West and the Agder counties are probably in a similar situation. The Council of State is concerned that we have to make sure that those who want to drive are driven. But my question is: Is the Council willing to target instruments for the type of areas, such as: Hordaland, or does he think these uses are so small that we have to accept that they go out?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1222	There are two issues in Aud Gaundal's line. One concerns procedures relating to the major agricultural policy aspects of such an agreement, structural issues. There is a significant step forward by the SV and the Central Party in promoting a proposal, but there is also an ambition from the majority that the Government should adequately facilitate the clarification of these issues a little more far from the current agricultural agreement and policy. The last thing I noticed, although we have to make sure that we still have a main agreement that gives specific rights to the organisations. In terms of structural development, we have had significant structural developments, as the figures show, from 1989 to now, over 15 years. It also explains our development of wealth. We're getting more effective. Fewer people can do the same job as before, in all areas of the economy, including agriculture. This is why we are proposing that less use in the West and elsewhere should be given other and good alternatives for those who cannot be involved in productivity growth with volume production.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1229	The agricultural sector sets some negative records a day, we should rely on the capital media. We have the highest food prices across Europe and have even passed Iceland and Switzerland. We have the largest transfers per. farmers, just passed by Switzerland, and we have many dissatisfied farmers, who keep their noses shut when they accept the agricultural agreement. Price developments in Norway in food are higher than overall price developments, and price differences in Europe are increasing. Governments have promised earlier this year to carry out margin studies on price developments at all stages of the food chain. If it turns out now that some of the paragraphs have unreasonably increased margins, how will the Council of State deal with this? If you want to present a margin study, you also have to do something about it when you discover the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1236	I'm not so concerned about what Hedstrom had to think about negative records, because I actually see a lot of positive things. We have three years of negotiated agreements. We have records in income growth for the farmers. In fact, farmers initially have much lower incomes than other groups, but we still have to look at this as something close to a positive record. We see that it's an investment will, and for those farmers who are going to be in the industry, it's a greater degree of optimism than we've seen in a long time. So I actually see a lot of positive where the representative Hedstrom sees it negative, or wants to do it. We must also be able to say that it is positive that we live in a country with some of the highest wealth and well-being in the world. In addition, it provides a level of costs for a low-productive industry with which agriculture will always labor. When the margin surveys are on the table, I will consider what it is necessary to do. It is difficult to predict where in the chain it is necessary to put instruments and focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1245	I mentioned in my speech the need to take the agricultural policy debate back to the Stortinget. I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State agree that, at the pace we see today, both in terms of structuralisation and in other areas, it is important that we now have a broader agricultural policy debate into the Storting, so that the Storting will have the chance to give clear guidance on what we want to do with agriculture in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1250	Now I stand on this pulpit as Minister of Agriculture and the Council of State, with the tasks and limitations of following legislation, among others. The main agreement for agriculture, etc. It would have been interesting to stand here just as the Left Leader and discuss how we organize the decision-making power of our society, between the organizations and corporate power and democratic decisions. It's a debate I'm concerned about and engage in, and sometimes I do it a little too much, many in the social debate in broad areas believe. As far as agricultural matters are concerned, we have the main agreement and, of course, the right of the parties to negotiate all the realities that they seem to be important to themselves. At the same time, changing governments are facilitating more fundamental debates on a big message. We had that in 2000. I got to join in and prepare that big message, and I got to join in as a big crowd representative and debate it. I believe that what we're doing now -- I'm absolutely sure of it -- is within the framework of what the Stortinge suggested when it comes to structural development, especially in milk production. That is why I am sure this has a broad basis in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1259	The Minister for Agriculture said in his statement that in the context of the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, the need for structural changes in milk production was confirmed by a majority in the United Kingdom. What was said was that the majority advocated "moderate structural development" in milk production. It is a little too easy when the Minister of Agriculture refers only to the main agreement and says that it is the more solar rights of the parties to negotiate all aspects of agricultural policy. Indeed, it is the State that, through its offer, places strong leadership on what is to be included in these negotiations. When we know that we have had such a strong structural change in milk production between 1999 and 2003, that the number of agricultural holdings is reduced by 19 pst. during this period, and that the number of agricultural holdings included in co-farming has increased from 922 to 2 351 - an area where otherwise the activity requirement has been removed and thus facilitates the use that can be operated by one active owner - a very strong structural change has been made. My question to the Minister for Agriculture is: How much change in structure does the Minister for Agriculture think it is proper to include in these negotiations without presenting it to the Stortinget as a matter of its own?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1270	This puzzles me a little bit. It seems that the representative of Enoksen would have preferred to discuss the state's offer and does not relate to the reality that it is a negotiated agreement, which he and his party have also intended to vote for, as I understand it, later today. It is my opinion that this agricultural agreement and these structural measures, with the effects we can see from it, are within the framework of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000. The strange thing is that the representative Enoch and I sat in the same government when we presented St.meld. No 19, how precisely these formulations were a significant basis for internal discussions, not least between Enoxen and me. I would like to maintain that the structural measures underlying this are within the framework of what was in St.meld. No 19 and got a broad connection. Then I also record that exactly what we have done here, today gets broad support from the Storting, with the exception of the Progress Party, which believes that it adds to a too moderate structural development in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1279	Yes, it is quite right that the Minister of Agriculture says. We both sat in government. I remember very well the discussions that were going on at the time, and I also remember very well the treatment in Stortinget after the government change, where both the Minister of Agriculture and I were in opposition at the time and included in these discussions. I think we both have a first-hand knowledge of what happened, and we have a slightly different view of whether what the Minister of Agriculture is now doing is in line with the leadership put in St.meld. No 19 and which, moreover, a large majority in the Grand Duchy joined. It is quite obvious that changes in the structure of agriculture, and especially in milk production, will always be seen. But when you've experienced a downturn of 19 pst. In the course of a three-year period, and when, at the same time, the Minister of Agriculture and also the agreement are perceived to increase the production potential of each individual use as much as it does - rarely strongly in a single settlement - I am surprised that the Minister of Agriculture does not see the need for the Storting to take the form of, for example, a single settlement. a large-scale notification shall have a new discussion of structure in future milk production.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1288	Of course, the Minister of Agriculture will facilitate as many agricultural and agricultural policy debates as we can in the United Kingdom. There is nothing a Minister of Agriculture would rather than discuss the important issues. I took note of the majority comment that asks us to consider how it can be facilitated. I would also like to stress that it is important to find that in the short time from St.meld. No 19 were adopted, and until today - there has also been a special attention given to milk production in that communication, and this is where we see both the greatest interventions in structural development and perhaps the greatest potential for change - an important technological development has taken place. For example, that time. not milkrobot part of the debate theme. Today, there is something most milk producers are discussing, what are the consequences, for example. So looking statically at an industry that is under such a strong development, it's impossible to do. It is therefore necessary to hold this debate during the annual agricultural negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1298	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3370]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1314	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted. Otherwise, the President will state that it is not necessary to use the speaking time in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1325	I am pleased that this year's reindeer management agreement has brought together a broad majority in Stortinget. All parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, support the negotiated agreement, which has a framework of 95 million. kr. This agreement is important to ensure the pursuit of a cultural industry with a significant national interest and means a great deal to both Sami and Norwegian populations. The focus of this year's reindeer management agreement must be on the number of reindeer. Especially for the previous year, last year, the market and slaughter situation was such that the provision of reindeer meat and also failure in slaughter capacity and facilities, so that the number of reindeer we now have is record high and at an undesirablely high level. I just want to give honey to the department, which grabbed in and adapted the marketing. This led to an increase in translation, which means that the situation is now more under control. Against this background, it is particularly a priority to reduce the number of reindeer in order to make a defenceful use of the grazing resources available in reindeer areas. I also want to focus on the Value Creation Program, which is worth 7.7 million. kr. The development fund of Rein drifta is set at 33.5 million. NOK 4,5 million. kr is allocated to R & D funds. It's all forward-looking deposits that can help strengthen a slightly deferred nourishment. Two million. kr is also intended for combined industries. I think this page will be important in a situation where several cleaners have to wind up. If it was not to be closed to reduce the number of pure to a defensive level, the Committee said that a quota should be evaluated on the number of pure for each unit. It is important that the general Sami environment gather support for this activity, in order to stimulate the modernisation of the reindeer plant, a more frequent product development and support to reduce the number of clean areas, so as to provide a defensive exploitation of the grazing resources in the reindeer areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1338	I refer you to the article that the case-rapporteur Olaf Gedrem kept, and can mainly join me in it. When I take the floor anyway, it is linked to a separate note where we in the Workers' Party stand together with the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, and that relates to the reindeer number in Finnmark. In addition, a majority of the Committee, to which the rapporteur referred, describes the situation and concerns that may arise if adverse grazing conditions arise. We can be faced with a major animal protection disaster with starved and undernourished clean. This is because the number of pure is far above what ecology can carry. For the Workers' Party, it is now important to inform them that if the measures that are now to be implemented and are not started do not reduce the number of pure, we must move from voluntary to involuntary measures. As it is now, it cannot continue any longer. It's for the sake of the animals, but also for the sake of the fact that we in the Storting have wanted to bring down the number of animals over several years now. On questions from the Committee, the Ministry of Agriculture writes in particular:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t "For many years, it has been a prerequisite for the payment of grants from the reindeer management agreement that the holding carries on a reindeer business which complies with the laws and regulations in force at all times for the industry. If a maximum rate is fixed for each holding, and this is exceeded, illegal purification will be available." We in the Labour Party should also ensure that some of the measures we ourselves have promoted have not helped. The agreement we are discussing today is negotiated, but the special comment that the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the SV and the Center Party have is a signal that the number of pure must decrease. The Ministry of Agriculture should then take this into account in next year's reindeer negotiations unless the number of animals is drastically reduced in the contractual period we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1354	The rapporteur has presented the work of the Committee in an orderly and straightforward manner. I only have a few comments that I think it is important to present to the Norwegian reindeer industry, which in many ways is a cyclical industry that swings up and down, and which can be compared to some other industries, but which have its very special characteristics. Like the rapporteur, I would like to draw particular attention to one aspect of this industry's market situation and the fact that the Council of State intervened in the situation before Christmas and made sure that the provision started again. This whole industry is made up of some sort of paradox when we have the market situation as a background. The reindeer want to deliver products that they have a lot of, while we have an end-user who is eager to buy the reindeer industry's products, and then we see that in between this situation it fails. It is then necessary to focus attention on those actors who have been given a primary responsibility to ensure the sustainability of the reindeer industry, namely that there are those who buy their products, goods and services, and that we have some links between them that have a responsibility for the functioning and harmony of the market situation, more than has been the case so far. I am very pleased that the Minister of Agriculture has taken on board this relationship, which is also about studying distribution links and the responsibilities of the Agricultural Cooperation in this area. It is quite clear to me that this will be left-handed work, not primary work, on the part of the Agricultural Cooperation. Then we need to do what is possible within the framework of the agreement, in order to find out that there must be more, other and perhaps new actors who will have a new role to play with existing actors. If we are to succeed in this industry, and if we are to succeed in Sami culture and development, we must have a willingness to look at reindeer in the same way that we look at all other businesses. If we don't give this industry a backpack that it will never be able to carry on. I also think we've given the reindeer a heavy backpack to carry, because we've put similarities between reindeer and Sami culture. The big community expects this industry to operate tomorrow in the same way as it did 250 to 300 years ago, because this is in line with our traditional concept of culture. I think we have enough evidence to see that this industry is able not only to carry forward the Sami culture and development in Finnmark with this heavy backpack. If the value creation concept doesn't get a greater place in the reindeer business, I'm afraid we're getting an eternal discussion about the concept of state aid that has the ice of a stigmatizing attitude toward the entire Sami population. We have an obligation to clean up this term. I am pleased that the concepts of market thinking, market access and marketing have been given a far greater place in the reindeer industry than before, and I hope that is only a beginning on the further journey.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1371	There is a serious situation with regard to the development of the number of pure in West Finland in particular. On 30 January 2002, the Management Board established a maximum reindeer of 64 300 animals for summer pastures, while the reindeer number on 1 April of that year was 73 000 animals. Per. On 1 April 2003, the number was increased to more than 80000 animals, one year later to have risen in about 80 000. 100000 animals. What we can see is that the work on reducing the reindeer with the policies of the Government and the majority of the population has not worked. The Progress Party believes that it is no longer acceptable that the reindeer operators do not follow up the projects undertaken by the Government. It's the purest fall when, in the last years of reindeer management agreements, you see that in the relationship between the state and the NRL, you don't have the power to solve the problems associated with an upper reindeer. The entire scheme has lost credibility. Even the manager of the programme to reduce the reindeer figure at the Rein driftsadministration Regional Office in Kautokeino does not think it is possible to achieve the target. When the environmental, animal protection and district problems are visible to all, they give the impression of paralysis. If we continue to point out these misunderstandings without doing anything about it, the impression is created that the members of the Business Committee are only taking the floor in the debate and expressing their views in order to have something to fill the debate with. This is unfortunate, because the problems that the Storting is set to solve, grow and grow. This undermines the credibility of the Greatness. The size must be willing to take some new grip. A draft main analysis report of the Riksrevision of 30 April this year states that “part of the remaining nutritionists have increased their use of resources when others have reduced their flocks”. The National Audit Service also criticises the Ministry of Agriculture and the Rein driftsAdministration to do a bad job: "Disadvantages and priorities of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Management of Clean Farms in Alta may have contributed to the failure of the Boards to exercise their administrative powers under the law." Further: "More precise framework conditions are a prerequisite for exploiting grazing resources in a way that is adapted to ecology and provides predictability for reindeer operators." After all the losses, the policy must now be changed! In the opinion of the Progress Party, there are two dangerous ways to limit the extraction of a resource. You can give the driver the exclusive right to exploit a given geographical area, as the farmer does, or you can, as in the fishing industry, control the resource extraction through the quota principle. When it comes to reindeer operations, you don't do any of the parts. It leaves to each reindeer to determine their own withdrawal from a common resource. We don't think the problems of too high a reindeer can find their solution until each reindeer is given his own right over his part of the grazing resource. The ministry has started a job, but it will probably take many years before the page boundaries are established, and as we see it, there are no credible means of achieving this goal. We believe that the Stortinget must impose on the Government and take the necessary measures to bring down the reindeer for West Finland to 64 300 animals by 1 April next year. We are making a proposal on that. What we are now seeing is that the majority of the population have argued that the implementation of the decision on reintroduction in West Finland is to be carried out in cooperation with the industry, and that in this respect financial arrangements are to be put in place to which the practitioners can voluntarily join. But we can't ignore the results on the grazing basis, as has been said for many years. It's also in the proposition about this. Norut has performed studies to show that the low pastures are very low. In some areas it will take up to 100 years to recover the grazing base. So it's a huge environmental disaster that brings erosion and desertification to Finnmark. The Progress Party has, as I said, not wanted to accept this situation with many animal tragedy and a devastating chaos that has developed on the Finnmarks. We have constantly made the necessary proposals which, had they been adopted, would have improved the situation. I am disappointed that we have remained alone on alternative solutions. We could understand it if other parties had made constructive proposals to address the problems, but they are shining with their absence. I'll mention our suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1401	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1404	The work being done in Finnmark is very demanding. I have to say that both the conversion work and the value creation programme for pure, which you have now started, and which you outline the need for adjustments, are a very demanding and long-term work. I think it is important that the Storting has some patience in relation to such a demanding job as it is to have implemented the intentions in this case. It is known from the district plot that the reversal of a development is not done overnight. You have to have a perspective that goes on for a good few years, maybe up to ten years, before you can expect to see any results. But it's clear that you have to adjust the course along the way, so you keep trying to improve. The main reason why I take the floor today is that I want to follow up a little bit of what the Progress Party and Øystein Hedstrøm are taking up. We in SV are also very concerned that the number of pure increases as much as it does. We have also read the report from the Riksrevision, which is critical that nothing happens to the reindeer. It has to do with what's happening in relation to the ecological, that you actually graze down large parts of Finnmark. We also know that we can face a formidable animal disaster if you get such a winter that you can often get in Finnmark. That is why we want to say clearly to the Council of State that we are now expecting a stronger priority in the Ministry of Agriculture to do something, so that the reindeer go down. In fact, we evaluated whether we should support the proposals of the Progress Party, which are very tough, but we want to wait a year to give the Government and the Government the opportunity to do what the Stortinget has asked for, that is to say, bring down the figure, so that we can avoid both an ecological disaster and an animal protection disaster. I am aware that these are very complicated matters, and that it is not a simple task that we impose on the Council of State, but the Council of State must get some heavy tasks from the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1415	Governments definitely don't have a simple task. It has been tried over a long time to bring down the figure to a sustainable level. That doesn't mean that this is a problem to be easily addressed. I agree with what has been said by previous speakers here today. It's absolutely necessary that a powerful drag be inserted in order to reduce the reindeer number. I don't need to spend a long time. I just want to stress also from our side that this is a work that needs to be prioritised, and where the Council of State needs to use the means necessary to get this implemented, so that we get a sustainable clean-up even in a long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1422	This year's reindeer management agreement has a framework of 95 million. kr. This is the same framework as for the current contract year. The conversions carried out for the 2003-2004 contract year, involving a strong emphasis on production, have continued in the year’s agreement. The contracting parties have also been concerned this year with the design of the instrument system so that it is as effective as possible at all times in relation to the policy objectives of reprocessing. The Parties agree that a review of the regional grant should be carried out. The report of this work shall be available prior to next year's reindeer management negotiations. As most people here know, the market situation for reindeer meat has been difficult in the last year. This is a new and really a little bit strange situation, which in the proposition is explained in more detail. Among other things, it is emphasised that cooperation and dialogue between the different actors in the value chain are not good enough, which has had consequences for market development and development and sales. Marketing is primarily the responsibility of the industry and the other actors in the food chain. However, in relation to reindeer management, there is now also a public interest in its functioning. This is related to the scale adjustment in Finnmark. If the market system does not function properly, it will have direct consequences for this work. Therefore, funds for increased marketing have been proposed in addition to re-disposals to improve the possibilities for early slaughter in Finnmark. In addition, the value creation programme for pure priority applications for the marketing of branded products shall: I assume that these measures will lead us to avoid the situation we were up in last autumn and winter. The Ministry of Agriculture has also established contacts with key market players with a view to providing a solution-oriented contribution in this field. In this cooperation, obligatory cooperation with the industry itself is also necessary. I have noticed that the number of committees is asking the Ministry to come back to this in the context of the 2005 State budget. A viable and sustainable reindeer drive depends on women having a central position and influence at all levels. An important part of the reindeer policy work will therefore be to facilitate women to find it useful to be in reindeer-farming. It is now working to develop a new and more targeted gender equality policy in the reindeer sector. In various contexts, the government has highlighted the importance of ensuring the areas of reindeer management. The cleaning operation was in relation to disturbances, and even small interventions can do great damage. The government sees the need for improvements to be coordinated, and where impacts on reindeer management are assessed together and in relation to other existing and planned interventions. A new challenge in this context is the wind farms. When examining the last year's reindeer management agreement, we focused on the reindeer situation in Finnmark. As part of this work, government budget resources are known to be allocated to various bonus schemes to stimulate voluntary redeployment. The work on reindeer adjustment is a high priority. Administrative activity is very active in bringing about the voluntary winding-up and reduction scheme among reindeer owners. Of course, I'm not going to hide that this is a very challenging task. The purity rate has increased strongly in recent years, not least due to good grazing and operational conditions. Although the processes in progress have been completed in close proximity, it must be recognised that the situation is difficult. It is therefore necessary to keep a strong focus on the job and the bottlenecks that may prevent adaptation. A key success factor in the reindeer policy is the understanding and participation of the industry itself. I would therefore like to highlight the need for cooperation with the industry, which is based both on respect for the knowledge and experience of the practitioners themselves, and on the necessary recognition that we cannot continue with the imbalance between reindeer and grazing grounds. Cooperation must therefore be mutually committed. With such a starting point, and with common efforts, I think nutrition and government will succeed in laying the foundation for a reindeer that is viable and sustainable in the long term and that is also enriching to our country. I have taken note of the Committee's comments that it will be necessary to review whether the measures taken are sufficient to reduce the purity, and in particular. consider imposing quota limits on each reindeer. The slaughter season of the harvest will be critical as to whether such instruments will be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1448	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1452	For 14 years, Stortinget has talked about the reindeer being far too high in relation to the grazing grounds, but the situation has become worse and worse. I'm going to quote from a line round I had with the Council of State when we dealt with the reindeer management agreement two years ago, where the Council of State said: "I can assure both the representative Hedstrøm and the Stortinget that I am very concerned that we are now able to maintain the pace--at least-- to which this has been set up, and that it cannot be accepted by Stortinget that the practitioners of the reindeer industry are not now following up these projects that we are undertaking. In that case, we have to consider a harder line." And on the other hand, "Let this be a raised index finger." So this was two years ago. I think it's kind of like what the Council of State says today. Are we going to have the same debate next year, or can we now be reasonably sure that the tools that the Government is now putting in to bring down the reindeer will work? Can the Council of State go to the pulpit and say something concrete about how the Storting should believe that it works better than what has been done?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1467	These projects, which I referred to in 2002 on migration programmes, voluntary schemes, bonus schemes, etc. In order to reduce the purgatory, they're the ones we're now working on. I have to admit that what happened, and that I didn't foresee at the time, was that in the middle of this very serious situation, we had a market situation that meant that we didn't have animals taken out. Because it is now time for a reduction in purity, a significant number of pure animals have to be brought into a slaughterhouse, bought by some and eaten by some. It's part of the value chain -- which we can call it -- of which the reindeer adaptation has to be part. And here's a cardinal error, which we've now addressed. But the task is challenging. There's 400-500 tons in stock now. We're going to have a normal slaughter for the harvest, we're going to have a clean-up at the same time, and the market is going to fail. So it's a difficult job The Stortinget now hangs on me, but I also notice that the Stortinget against the reindeer industry even now raises its finger and says that for the autumn it must be slaughtered, and slaughtered a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1472	The grossing-up proposition reads as follows: "Due to very favourable climatic conditions in the last few winters, we have avoided the major animal protection tragedies. Difficult grazing conditions and unfavourable grazing conditions such as: locking of pastures could have very serious consequences if they were to occur in the following winter. One will then be able to face a major animal protection disaster with starved and undernourished reindeer in large parts of Finnland. In this context, it is close to pointing back in the winter of 1997, when almost 20 000 Rein was lost". Are you prepared in the ministry to deal with a situation similar to the one you had in 1997?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1481	We're going to be happy that, after all, we've had a condition on the animals and grazing conditions that have made it possible to take as large a number of animals, which is too high, over the last two winters without having the large animal threshings that we could get. What we're now focusing on in the department is getting down the reindeer considerably before the next winter, because we don't know what this winter will bring. That means that the slaughter season for the harvest will be absolutely crucial, and it will be absolutely crucial how we are now successful with the new grips we are taking on the market, not least in contact with Norwegian Meat and the major actors, who have now promised an extra effort in relation to the large stocks that are working to bring down the reindeer. That will be the decisive thing. I think it is important that the Storting today sends a very strong signal to the reindeer industry about significant slaughtering for the harvest, otherwise tough instruments will come forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1486	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3371]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1502	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party, 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to the main speakers of each group and five replies to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1511	The size shall now consider a Document No. 8 proposals from the SV to establish a value creation programme for the fishing industry. This is a very good proposal, which is welcomed by many teams. In the proposal, the proposers point to the importance of fisheries both for value creation and employment and the challenges facing the industry. The reduction in fish exports and the decline in employment in industry call for new measures to maintain fisheries as a major and important industry. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee is behind the proposal and is asking the Government to consider making proposals in the 2005 State budget to establish a value creation programme for the fishing industry. In 2001, the Workers' Party and the Government of Stoltenberg took the initiative in the creation of an agricultural value added programme. This has proved to be a very wise move to increase the diversity of products and to speed up product development. I feel sure that a value creation programme for fisheries could at least produce the same results. As an old fishing nation, we have a lot that can be recovered from products that can be attractive to the market. With a market that demands more fresh goods, I think the time has come for this kind of innovation. We are also aware that there is now growing cooperation between the fishing industry and the agricultural industry on product development and distribution of products from the blue and green fields. With the clean seas of Norway, good access to fresh quality raw materials and clean nature, I think we have a lot to gain from such cooperation. Therefore, it is also necessary to consider whole when such a value creation programme becomes established. For example, by-products and marine biotechnology must also be part of such a programme. This means that research and product development must be carried out and that the fleet link must be included in this whole. I look forward to having this matter re-examined in Stortingen until the fall, and I hope that the Government will take a constructive approach to this important matter. On the part of the Workers' Party, we believe that it must make a public contribution here so that a large potential can be unleashed. In my work as case rapporteur for this document, I had not in my wildest imagination believed that the main agreement for the fishing industry would be part of this matter. I note that with the help of the Progress Party, the government parties will this evening have a majority to bury this important agreement, which has been stuck for over 40 years. The main agreement has been an important area of cooperation between the country and the fishing industry for 40 years. This cooperation has focused on both the allocation of key instruments and other aspects. I am surprised that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party take such an important matter so easily that they simply put such a comprehensive proposal into a matter where this is not at all at home. In the opinion of the Labour Party, this is such a big case that it should have been presented to the Stortinget as a matter of its own, if the Government would absolutely have such a cancellation on the agenda. The Labour Party, in agreement with the government parties, was able to reverse this proposal, but we cannot, of course, prevent proposals from being re-submitted and the majority of them using their strength to adopt such a proposal. However, I am pleased that the Workers' Party, in the agreement on the revision of the government parties, was able to put in place the warranty card and the security training for fishermen, which had also been attempted by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1539	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1542	The representative Arnesen was a spokesperson in the debate today against what he has been in the media. It is perhaps because he has been informed that there was actually an understanding -- as I have understood it -- between the government party and the Labour Party in the negotiations, that this could be re-examined. But I don't quite understand 50 million. kr shall have so much to say. I think in the 1980s there were 2 billion dollars. And when a reduction in the main agreement for fishing, yelled that now it was death close to the entire coast of Norway. And now we have this. When we are in favour of this, we say that we should continue to have a number of concessions to the fishing industry, for example: I don't understand the noise that is now being generated around this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1547	The representative of Solholm claims that only one amount is involved. This is not just about a sum of money, it is also about an important cooperation agreement, as the Fisker team itself writes in its press release, which we got access to today. It is quite clear that there has been an important element of cooperation in this agreement, and it is also possible in the future that the amounts contained can also be increased. But I want to say that if you think you want to keep the money in the agreement, why do you start by cutting the warranty ticket, while proposing to cancel the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1554	I think there were many of us who were terribly happy when we saw on the back of the fishing sheet that the fishing agreement and the guarantee lot were mountainous, after negotiations on the revision of the working party and the government. The representative Arnesen has said that this has been important for the Labour Party. But it has not been more important for the Labour Party than that one has not been able to ensure that the agreement was not terminated. As I understand it, it has been understood that the government party has been free to promote the proposal in other contexts. And it has then in a remarkable way appeared in a matter that has nothing to do with the proposal. I would like to challenge the representative of Arnesen on the following: If, contrary to what would be expected, the fisheries agreement would be terminated after treatment in Stortinget today, the Labour Party will, in the event of a change of power, for example. together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left, be willing to renegotiate the fisheries agreement and conclude a new cooperation agreement with the Norwegian fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1561	There is certainly no provision in a budgetary agreement to make such a strong agreement that the parties to the agreement refuse to make proposals in the Stortinget. I don't think an agreement can be that strong. And no one had dreamed of bringing this matter up in a Document No. Eight proposals, where it doesn't belong at all. So I don't think we can guard against that. So I want to say that for us it will be very important after a shift of power to have a good dialogue with the industry, and then it is clear that such an agreement that we have had for 40 years is the best tool to implement it. It may not be in its present form, but we need an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1568	The representative Bendiks Arnesen has made quite strong criticisms, especially of the Christian People's Party, in connection with the fisheries agreement and his resignation. Now, when the agreement on the revised national budget was concluded, the Labour Party agreed that we were going to promote this proposal in another matter. There are different kinds of agreements that are made here in the house that have stretched for longer than a budget does, but in this case no agreement was made, and the Labour Party knew about it. So a little bit in relation to the crisis maximisation that has been. In the 1990s, the fisheries agreement amounted to DKK 3 billion, and today it is about 50 million. kr. Today's daily newspaper says to the Government: "Snow, or go off," and that the Workers' Party and SV believe that Ludvigsen's grip frames the construction and employment in the districts: "The result can be the closure of fishing farms in North Norway." This is crisis maximisation. Isn't the representative Arnesen seeing it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1575	I have no habit of operating crisis maximisation, and I believe that the industry and other parties have formulated themselves more strongly than I have in this matter. But I think you should take the industry seriously when they take such strong words in their mouths. Then I must say that I am surprised that the Christian People's Party, which has in a way been the guarantor of this agreement over all these 40 years, suddenly turns around and becomes the object of the agreement. I also have to say that I am surprised that when the new party leader of the Christian People's Party travels around the country and the beach and proclaims that you need more cooperation with the industry, you do not agree to cancel an old fisheries agreement that has worked well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1582	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1586	I agree with the rapporteur's view of the importance of Document No. The 8th proposal, which actually has a good timing today, because the very heavily complex Green Grid committee delivered its position today and has been quite concrete in terms of proposals on points which can help to strengthen the Norwegian fisheries industry's framework and working conditions for the years to come. I also fully agree with what the rapporteur has said with regard to innovation. I feel that the Green Nevet Committee has contributed to a great deal today. But it also makes a requirement that must affect us all, when we finally get this to be dealt with, that we are able to dispose of old goods and also contribute ourselves to the innovation and innovation work that the rapporteur calls for. The rapporteur then stated that he could not, in his wildest imagination, have foreseen that the issue of termination of the fisheries agreement would be raised on this occasion. He may be right about that, but it may not have come as a surprise that this question is brought to the square. It has only a practical reason, as the Storting ends the practical work in this session now in a few days, and we saw it so that it was most appropriate to promote it in a matter like this. I believe that SV does the Workers' Party wrong if you blame this type of treatment on the Workers' Party. They can hardly be blamed for this proposal - which I am referring to here on behalf of the minority, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. There was nothing in the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party other than that this issue should not be addressed in the context of the suspension of the revised national budget. But the whole of Stortinget knew that the proposal was being promoted in the context of the revised national budget. And it's correct, as the representative Arnesen says, that there is no party that can prevent us or others from promoting any proposal, cf. this proposal, in any other relevant case which has to do with this. I also think that we should be very careful about proposing to cancel the fisheries agreement by giving some kind of pre-judgment as to what this could lead to for the Norwegian fishing industry. Then I think you're on completely wild roads, and I think you're going through with a description of Norwegian fishing industry in particular for which there's no coverage at all. At least you don't have to try this treatment on some kind of misery description, because I think there are few in the industry who recognize themselves in it. Finally, I just want to say on behalf of, I think, all three parties behind the proposal, that we intend to have a very close, good and constructive cooperation relationship with all the organisations in the Norwegian fishing industry, regardless of the examination of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1601	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1606	I traveled to Oslo on a Sunday with a letter by hand from fish layers in northern Northland about how important it was that we got the lineage supplement reintroduced. I came to Oslo one Tuesday, and got a revised national budget in hand and saw that the fisheries agreement was proposed to be cancelled by the Government. On a Friday, I - I thought - discovered that the Workers' Party had so-called rocking the fisheries agreement in the negotiations on the revision of the government party. And one Monday I found a suggestion in the setting of a Document No. Eight proposals from the SV to establish a value creation programme for fisheries - yes, there I found a proposal from the government party to cancel the fisheries agreement. What is it about this 40-year cooperation agreement that provokes the Right so strongly that they are forced to go forward in this way in order to get him to resign? Why in all the world has an unconsulted industry in advance, and why put such a proposal in the setting of a Document No. 8-proposal from SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1613	Now I actually saw a statement from the manager of the Norwegian Fisheries Team where he clearly stated that he was not surprised that this proposal appeared. I just repeat that I think it is time to get Norwegian fisheries policy and the political proposals into this Chamber for consideration. We have seen, if we go into ourselves and are a little honest on this issue, that the last few years of negotiations on fisheries agreement issues, or lack of agreement, have hardly been a constructive contribution to the promotion of Norwegian fishing industry. On the other hand, today's proposal is not an image that we're going to dampen our commitment, whether it's for lineage centres, marine mammals, leadership grants or whatever it might be that might be relevant to have further cooperation between the big business and the Norwegian fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1618	The representative Kristiansen suggests that this is something the industry has been waiting for and in a way feels that they can accept. It's not like that. We have been in meetings with representatives of the entire industry, and for once everyone agrees - this is the wrong way to go. I felt that Åsa Elvik was not getting an answer to what she was asking for. Why has the industry not been consulted before doing so? And my question is, when did you inform the industry that you wanted to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1623	I think it's a bit curative that we're dealing with the issue of the Norwegian fishing industry's framework and working conditions to those heights, whether we're talking about 30 million. NOK 60 million. kr, that there will be a question in an agreement between the Norwegian fishing industry and the country. For this is not where the framework conditions for the Norwegian fishing industry belong or should belong. I understand very well those who express surprise, even great surprise, but I also expect you to put a little bond on yourself and not say that you are insanely surprised that such a proposal appears. The crucial thing for us was to have this presented in an appropriate form now entirely in the final phase of the working week in Stortinget. If it could have been done in another way, in the form of a Document No. Eight proposals, I would be more than happy to discuss. But the substance and reality of this proposal will give us reasonable time to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1630	Ivar Kristiansen has shown several times that the deal is now worth 50 million. kr. This is not correct. There was no agreement for the current year. It was just broken because the Government’s offer was so low that the fisheries organisations could not accept it as a necessary framework for the proper implementation of the fisheries. The industry's claim was 200 million. kr. This shows the importance of having such an agreement in order to negotiate the elements of the agreement. But what made me reply is that Ivar Kristiansen is taking the manager of the Fiskerlag for income because it is okay to cancel the agreement. I do not know if Ivar Kristiansen has read the daily newspaper today, but there the leader of the Norwegian Fisheries Team uses quite strong words both against the Minister of Fisheries and against what is now happening in the industry. So taking the leader of the Fishlayer to income for this is well to go quite far across the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1637	In any case, I have not intended to take the manager of the Norwegian Fisheries Team as a revenue for our vision. On the other hand, what I did was try to present here was a statement from the manager of the Norwegian Fisheries Team expressing that he was not surprised. I actually think there's something close to what I expressed. What I think is superfluous, however, is that we are increasingly getting the Norwegian fisheries distribution policy into this room. That must be the background, not just the fact that there is a negotiating situation between a government and an organisation that is to be the guiding principle and give the most urgent priorities in the fisheries policy area, as I feel it has been. In recent years, we have seen that there has been a very, very large distance between offers and demands. We have lost focus here in the Chamber in the important areas of Norwegian fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1644	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1647	The SV proposal is a good one in substance, I think. The fact that we, as politicians and as magnification, are trying to create a program, create a framework that allows the industry to increase its value, I think I'm positive. We're in a discussion about an industry that has all possible good prospects. We can read in the fisheries media that most stocks are in good condition, that quotas may increase over the next few years, and that we are trying to conserve resources and manage them effectively. That makes sense. What I think it's important for us to take care of is that we don't add up to a value creation program that requires big public contributions. That's why, in the Progress Party, we felt it right - we were alone - to clarify that this must be a value creation program that the industry itself is initiating, and that the industry also bears the primary responsibility for the funding of the programme. Thus, it is not said that the public should not be able to enter into various sectors and help to get started, as a mass increase also does to self-government, where we have said in the next few years that we must be willing to provide public support in order for this industry to have a basis for rebuilding itself, and for it to have the opportunity to become profitable, something that it has great potential for. The problem is that the industry has been so low, and there is so little of it that we have to rebuild it. And then it's up to you to find the right way. Now it's obvious that this isn't the big debate. A great deal has been said about this so-called fisheries agreement, as the representative Bendiks Arnesen calls for a cooperation agreement. I have the agreement in front of me here. Bendiks Arnesen says it's not money, it's a cooperation agreement. It is stated in Section 1: "The Ministry shall conduct contractual negotiations on state aid measures in the fisheries sector with the Norwegian Fisheries Team." It's always about support measures. And if you look at the creation of the main agreement for the fishing industry, it says: "The Ministry of Fisheries appointed, on 29 January 1963, a selection to examine questions raised in connection with a possible main agreement between the State and the Norwegian Fisheries Team on support measures for fisheries." So it's not a so-called cooperation agreement. It's support measures. The plurality will, is exactly what the representative Kristiansen had on several occasions, both in his main post and in the succession, that these support measures, which we may give this industry, are to be dealt with through the ordinary budgetary work in Stortinget and have a solution there, where a plurality is to determine the direction and size of it. Creating crisis maximisation, as some have done, is quite unlikely. For an industry that has a value creation of $30 billion, it's like $50, 60, 70 million. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on this subject. This year, there's no deal. According to this crisis maximisation, the industry should have great difficulties this year. But I have not noticed that it is so very difficult this year either, when there is no appointment on time. So I thought maybe we should calm it down a little bit and see that this can actually be done in another way. That's what the plural wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1672	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1676	The representative, Solholm, says "support measures" as if it were almost something detestable. But I would like to remind you that these support measures, such as Lodve Solholm, are talking about, among other things. is used to maintain a structure with small coastal reception facilities, which must not be regarded primarily as the task of the industry but as a social task undertaken by the industry, in the same way as for example. some airlines are supported to maintain offer on the short-haul network. It is also granted over the State budget. It takes place after bidding and after negotiations with individual airlines, and funds are granted over the annual government budget for this type of agreement, which is entered into for each year. Thus, this is not a peculiarity that only applies in the fishing industry, but it is used in a number of other areas where support measures are used to ensure that companies or industries assume a social responsibility that the Stortinget believes is important to maintain.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1683	Now we finally got the proof that we're talking by each other, and that we're essentially the exact same thing. That's exactly the same plural saying, as Odd Roger Enoksen said now, that we're going into the ordinary budget, and then we're going to buy the services that the plurality in Stortinget thinks it's going to be in the framework of an industry, just like one does before the transport sector. A decision that it is important and socially sensible to establish routes as per. definition goes under, but it's politically desirable to do it, and then one buys the service. In the same way, we are going to buy services from the fishing industry when it's up to housing, and when it's up to creating some small receptions, because it's socially sensible. We buy these services through posts on the state budget. We don't need an agreement between the fishing concessions and the department. We can adopt this here in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1688	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1691	It is a big saying for SV that a co-consultant’s business committee “considers the Government to make proposals in the 2005 state budget to establish a value creation programme for the fishing industry”. I would very much like to be allowed to thank the case manager for doing a very good job. In all modesty I must say that we have always known that this was a good proposal. We've got an incredible amount of good and positive feedback, and among the hottest, it was a leader's article in Nordlyn that invited the Stortingen to lend its ear to this good initiative from SV. I'm glad the committee has done just that. I'm just going to get shot in that I hope the council doesn't lend an ear to what Kristiansen said about meddling the Green Nevet selection with this, because then it goes terribly crazy. The background to this initiative is its enormous potential and, at the same time, its major challenges. When the exported quantity increases at the same time as the export value goes down and the employment at all stages of the industry goes down, we should step up our efforts and get the job done. It's a huge potential and great challenges. Some people put the dilemma this way: Norwegian fish processing loses terrain because we have not developed profitable niches or specialties that can defend a high Norwegian cost level, while we haven't automated enough to compete with low-cost countries on their premises. Our answers are: Let's not leave this job alone. Let us take seriously the fisheries policy objectives of being profitable, resilient and contributing to jobs and coastal settlements. Let us join and take responsibility for developing strategies for more value creation in the Norwegian fishing industry! We have taken on board the value creation programme for agriculture and believe that we can take some experience from this into a corresponding programme of value creation in the fisheries industry. The development of high-quality specialized foods based on Norwegian food traditions and specialities will be the main point of view of such a programme. The development of the domestic market for fish products has been repeated and there will be a high potential here. This would be particularly interesting in relation to a quality bet. Another strategy would increase the use of by-product and the development of bio-product. If we are to have a fish processing industry in Norway, technological measures that increase Norwegian competitiveness in routine production will also be stimulated. In total, SV has a hope that such a programme can contribute to the localisation of large parts of the value creation, while at the same time we can participate in and create several Norwegian jobs in industry. There has been a significant point for us that such a program should focus not only on the processing stage, but also on the basis of a holistic perspective on production. I therefore ask the Council of State to include our intention that the programme should embrace the entire fisheries sector - fishing, fishing, equipment suppliers, reception, processing, transport, research institutes, educational establishments, exports, a large market, etc. All the important lessons learned from the agricultural value added programme are that what happens from the end of production, until it is on the consumer’s dinner table, is decisive for happiness. Distribution, marketing and market research should therefore not be underestimated in such a valuation strategy. Here I believe that the fishing industry has a lot to learn, and that with such a program we can contribute to a positive development. I am very pleased that the committee has joined our proposal, and I hope that the Council of State will look at it with goodwill, but it would be preferable not to include the Greens' Committee in this particular programme - that would be fine. When it comes to the minority proposal, I have no more to say than that there must be a typographical error, a typographical error, a mistake, a loss or a mere misunderstanding. At least something else must have gone terribly wrong in the government party's internal proceedings, for a proposal to terminate the fisheries agreement does not at all have anything to do with a proposal from the SV to establish a value creation programme for the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1726	Christian People's Party agrees with the description in Document No. 8:67 from the representatives Elvik and Ryan of the situation and the challenges facing fishing industries. We are also some of the challenges facing the fishing industry when it comes to coastal construction and employment and the significant export of seafood this industry is facing. Overall, there is no inconsistency when it comes to the challenges facing fishing industries. One has agreed that in a value creation program it should not only focus on processing, but that one has the most holistic perspective possible. We believe this in the Christian People's Party is very important - also for the development of the marine sector. We therefore agree that, in the context of the 2005 draft budget, one considers proposing the establishment of a value creation programme for fisheries. The government has shown commitment to the challenge for the fishing industry. The administration has created a selection for marine value creation, and the work of this selection will be sent to wide audiences. The government also has a big message about marine industrial development. The Christian People's Party is busy having a good and offensive fisheries policy. The Norwegian fishing industry is now exporting around 27 billion kroner each year. As export revenue increases, the fisheries agreement has become less and less in recent years. From the 1990s, the amount has been reduced, from $3 billion to about $50 million. kr today, although it was – as was said – a breach of the things when one last tried to negotiate the agreement. The fact that the amount has been reduced so much in these years has caused the industry to change well both when international agreements on industrial aid and environmental requirements on resource management are in force. Each individual fish and each farm along the coast are scorched by praise. The fishing industry is almost self-financed and contributes to significant value creation. The Government proposed to cancel the fisheries agreement in the revised national budget. In the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party on the revised national budget, it was agreed that the issue of termination of the main agreement should not be addressed in the revised national budget. The Labour Party, on the other hand, agreed that the Government would promote the proposal in another case. The government party has done this in this setting. The government party has not in any way broken a contract with the Workers' Party when this is the case. When it comes to the supplements provided by the fisheries agreement today, one has not said anything about removing them, as many opposition parties claim in the media. Proposals for advocating different measures will be promoted in the treatment of the State budget. Then we're also going to discuss the different challenges that industry has associated with these resources. I mean, based on what's happening, there's no reason to run the scare propaganda. As Bendiks H. Arnesen says, we have a party leader in the Christian People's Party who has profiled himself when it comes to fisheries. I'm very happy that we have an offensive party leader in this area. We want cooperation with the fishing industry. Even if you go in to cancel the fishing agreement, that doesn't mean you don't want to cooperate closely with the industry. No, we'll still be on and have a good relationship with the different actors in the industry. It is important to have this dialogue - also to get to know the challenges facing the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1743	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1746	In the last week, there were some strange headlines in the media about the Christian People's Party and a new fisheries policy. There was someone who had frightened the Christian People's Party's new leader into a fishing boat. This was probably a necessary trip; I assume it was part of the image-building around his person. It is obvious that he was inspired by this tour, because there was no way the fishermen would achieve with the Christian People's Party's help. It was proclaimed that cooperation with the industry was very important. Of course, this is positive, but it rhymes very little with what has our realities. In my view, this suggests that the Minister of Health has not got what has happened in his area, because there are very few areas that have become more severe by the cuts that the Government Party has carried out. If it had not been for the agreement that the Workers' Party has concluded with the Government, this sector would have come close to being the ribs of the tool. My question to Molvær Grimstad is whether she believes that the cooperation climate in the industry will be as good with what the Christian People's Party supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1753	The Christian People's Party will continue to have an offensive fisheries policy and cooperation with industry. I believe that by focusing the searchlight on these areas -- self-anxiety, leadership support and other things that come to the state budget -- we can actually get more political debate in the Storting on challenges to nutrition. I don't think the industry will be the victim of the fishing agreement being cancelled, but I think we can get even more and even better constructive debates here in Stortinget. When it comes to the party leader's boat trip, it wasn't random. We have worked hard on a report specifically in relation to the action zones in Nord-Troms and Finnmark, on the challenges that are there. Based on this report, the Christian People's Party has produced a report on the fishing industries and the challenges there, which we have gone into and worked with in depth and concretely. Mr President, this report is a good one. The axe well get a copy of, so he sees that this is not random. We are very pleased that partisan leadership will be involved in fisheries, because it is actually an enormously important industry for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1760	I wonder whether the fisheries industry will not be involved in the intervention of the Storting in the fisheries policy, if that is how the Storing intends to behave when it comes to making important decisions for the fisheries industry. It might have been an idea to consult the contracting party before cancelling the agreement, if that was the case. The problem is that today we do not know what kind of action will be taken above the state budget, as Molvær Grimstad pointed out - that this is no problem, because we will get it as ordinary measures over the state budget. We don't get to know that when we ask about it from SV's big group. The fisheries agreement is one of the few fishing vessels we have left, and if the Christian People's Party is busy with fisheries, they should be busy taking care of the vessels that we have left. The fisherman's newspaper writes in the leader's seat today that they "know that the Liberals in the Right and the Advance Party would like to see the agreement dead and buried," but they are more surprised that this is in line with the policy that the Christian People's Party claims they stand for. My question to Molvær Grimstad is: Did the Christian People's Party know that the agreement would be terminated before this proposal came from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1773	If the representative Elvik believes that the Christian People's Party is defensive on the sideline of the fisheries policy, he is thoroughly mistaken. I think that the opposition here is no longer necessary. And it's clear that when one of the newspapers makes it almost as if this would lead to the closure of fishing farms in North Norway, one of them is asking questions about whether a real finger is stuck in the ground and seeing how much this is all about. There are a lot of ways you can work with the industry. The Ministry of Fisheries and Fisheries may cooperate with the industry even if there is no fisheries agreement. And one sees that the amount is changing - 3 billion dollars was the amount early in the 1990s, and now it's about 50 million. kr. One sees that this is a dramatic change, and we should be proud that we have such a great fishing industry that exports and stands for a lot of value creation. Then there are challenges, and we take them seriously. There is nothing to suggest that we should not be offensive to these areas that are currently part of the fisheries agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1781	The representative of the Christian People's Party said that the Christian People's Party has a good and offensive fisheries policy, and we want that to the right more. But what amazes me - and us in SV - is: what is in the fisheries agreement that prevents the Christian People's Party from having a good and offensive fisheries policy? And what is so bad about this fisheries agreement that one does not even inform its contracting parties that one wants to cancel it, but that the contracting parties must read it in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1788	The last thing the SV representative said is not quite right. But I expect the Minister for Fisheries to come in a little later. It goes without saying that when the amount has been 3 billion kroner and now has fallen to about 50 million. kr, the intention of the fisheries agreement has been fulfilled. Then there may be different ways of cooperating with an industry, but one cannot hold on to everything that it has been, because one has had tradition for so many years to have a fisheries agreement that can be fashioned to change. Having a debate here in Stortingen on how much supplements we are going to give to self-afraid, I think it is actually good for the fishing industry. I think we're missing some of the living fisheries policy debate in the hall, and finding out more about what we're going to spend this money on, I think I'm healthy for the industry, and I think it's also healthy for the Storting. There is nothing wrong with the fisheries agreement itself, but there is a question of what kind of agreement you should have in the future, which is the most appropriate. And I don't think the industry is getting any worse out of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1797	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1800	I didn't think the level of aid had been as high as NOK 3 billion, but no matter what the level of aid was at one time, the government parties should do what was possible to maintain an agreement with a negotiating party that has been willing to reduce the level of aid from that level to that level over a 15-20 period. It suggests dealing with a very constructive organization, which should be done as possible to maintain the good relationship with. Instead, the agreement is cancelled without any further discussion - only by notifying the fisherman’s boss, as I understand, on the same day as the revised national budget was presented. You don't do anything to look for friends in that industry with such a procedure. What could have been done, if it was considered that the fisheries agreement should be abolished, was to enter into discussions with the organisation with a view to incorporating future support into the 2005 budget, from the second half of 2005. That would have been quite possible, because in this way the fisheries agreement could actually be concluded a year in advance and achieved a completely different result in peace and deportability and in agreement with the industry, instead of creating the conflicts that have been made with the opinions that have, among other things, been. The fisherman president has joined Dagbladet today. What is happening now is that there are no signals whatsoever as to what will be included in the future aid schemes. There are no signs of it in the revised national budget. There have been no discussions, and we see that in the last few months since Stortinget last dealt with the fisheries agreement after the break in the negotiations, welfare centres have disappeared - welfare stations that have been an important offer especially to the foreign fleet. There are uncertainties about leadership grants, and there are uncertainties in a number of areas. The government and government parties don't do anything to find friends in the fishing organisations, but they don't do much to find friends in this room by the way you've handled this case. I don't feel the need to say much about that Document No. The 8th proposal under consideration. I agree with the contributions of the author of the proposal, and I am also pleased that there is a unanimous increase in funding for the proposal for a programme of value creation. When the rapporteur said in his statement that he was surprised that the government parties took this matter so easily, I must say that I am all the more surprised that there are parties on the Stortinget that will continue to enter into agreements with other parties, which take so easily on the agreements they have entered into. One is not exactly looking for friends or long-term alliances when one is dry before the ink on the budget agreement, promoting the same proposal in a completely different matter. I understand that the Workers' Party feels cheated, although this agreement that the Workers' Party has concluded must be said to be a very bad agreement. I have been with both the government position and the opposition and the budget agreements, where we have almost had to talk to each other before moving on to a decimal point, and so we have a clear end to an agreement that opens up that this proposal could be re-proposed two days later. The working party should take a rehearsal course in negotiation technique, but I assume that is done with the very first. I do not need to spend more time on this matter. I would just like to repeat what I tried to say in the vote, that the parties that still intend to conclude agreements with the government parties should make sure to have their fingers counted before going apart.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1819	Among other things, we discuss: the fisheries agreement. It was in its time a milestone in fishermen's struggle for better living conditions, and it could best be compared with the introduction of the population's fear for the rest of the population. Therefore, the agreement is of very high symbolic value for the fishing population. The fact that the Minister of Fisheries has largely marked himself as a man without political judgement during the period as Minister of Fisheries gets to be his and the Government's problem. But when it goes down on the coastal population, as it does now, it's actually going to be a big problem for those who are going to survive along the coast. That the Christian People's Party supports the customs must be credited with the misunderstood Mother Godheart attitude of the Prime Minister. The Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left must be without political momentum when they dare to challenge the fishing industry and the coast in this way. The fisheries agreement is an institution. By removing the fisheries agreement, and it is completely disrespectful throughout the Government's conduct, they will remove the fishermen from the political agenda. Now it can be said that the fishermen are firmly planted on their own legs and do not need this agreement. Basically, it is positive, and it bears witness to a viable nutrition. The coastal lot will have an assessment of the new structure that is building up in the fishing industry. It is not certain that this "cheap" agreement for the fishing industry is so cheap in the preparation of the social accounts, with de-located coastal communities because the recruitment of shark fishing and coastal fishing is impossible, because the quotas are held in the hands of those who have large fishing boats. In any case - you do not remove the safety net of a profession because they have the power to build a sustainable industry. For the coastal population, this Decision will initially mean that the lead grant may disappear, as may the grant for the operation of the reception stations, the operation of the welfare stations, the support for Norwegian self-anxiety and the guarantee lot and the linear input. In other words, the government is able to create once again the uncertainty and insecurity of the coastal population. It has been said from this pulpit that last year the deal was 50 million. kr. Yeah, it was a 50-million-dollar poem. kr. But then I have to ask if we do not subsidize other industries? Transport is subsidised, health care is subsidized, police are subsidised, schools are subsidized, health services are subsidized, etc. We're talking about an industry on the coast, we're talking about housing, we're talking about the safety net, we're talking about people knowing what they have to stick to. We in the Coastal Party believed that the fisheries agreement had been lifted. But then, of course, we didn't expect to be dealing with a government that's running double games, where they're trying to be smart. The Government Parties and the Workers' Party agreed in the revised National Budget Agreement not to terminate the agreement, which was primarily proposed by the Government. That the Minister of Fisheries is now trying to claim that the Labour Party leader Jens Stoltenberg was in agreement with the removal of the fisheries agreement, I see as a pompous insult to the Workers' Party's Fisheries Policy spokesman, Bendiks H. Arnesen. I fully agree with the member of the Central Party in the Business Committee, Odd Roger Enoxen, that the play on promoting the matter in the Business Committee in a completely different matter must be the most ridiculous thing in Storting's history. But it's dangerous to flirt with stupid peacocks. The right-wing policy is working! Otherwise, I have to say that the Coastal Party is against the land being sold piece by piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1838	The president is a little uncertain as to whether part of the characteristics was what we in this house call unparliamentary, and will just point it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1841	I would like to congratulate the proposers, who are today getting a number of figures for the principle of a value creation programme for fisheries. This is important. The agricultural experience shows that this way of thinking about it has bore fruit. The value creation programme for agriculture has given rise to increased activity, increased bone size and, in some cases, certainly helped to ensure the construction. The same thing, I think, can happen for the fishing industry, and it is therefore very gratifying that we are getting an impact on this proposal today. Although I am very positive about the SV proposal, I would argue that part of the problems facing fishing industries, especially in relation to the processing industry, is related to Norway's lack of free access to our closest and most important market. Various barriers to trade and customs have made it difficult to obtain further processing in Norway. The debate on market access also needs us to be willing to address this issue, but perhaps at a different time than tonight. When the matter that we are dealing with today has received great attention, it is probably not primarily because of its impact, but because of a very unorthodox behaviour on the part of the Government. The Government proposed to cancel the fisheries agreement in the revised national budget without any prior notice. The proposal was not distributed, and there had been no pre-contact with the counterparty, the Norwegian Fisheries Team. In other words, this came as lightning from the clear sky for those involved. The fisheries agreement has been a very important part of Norwegian fisheries policy. The agreement has existed for over 40 years. Of course, it must be allowed to remove this agreement, but then the government should have people up to it in an ordinary way. A matter like this should have been dealt with in the business committee in the usual way. Such a scheme would include: made it possible to have regular rounds of hearings, and we could have a public debate, as this matter, in my view, had ignited, in a completely different way from what has been possible with the procedure chosen by the government party. When the Government chose to introduce this major, important and not least fundamental transformation into the revised national budget, it must be allowed to ask about the motivation. Was this in the hope that this whole matter would be drowned in the debate on large numbers and in the game about who would support who in connection with the revised national budget? - I don't know. In any case, in the agreement with the Labour Party on the revised national budget, it was agreed that this issue should not be part of the treatment of the revised national budget. By presenting the proposal to terminate the contract in the course of the examination of a document No. Eight proposals for a completely different theme were a strange process even more strange. The day before the presentation, a whole new and very dramatic theme was thrown into the committee. With the prehistory of this agreement, I believe this was an unworthy way of dealing with this matter. If it was on death and life that this agreement had to be announced in ours, the government should have a separate Document No. Eight proposals and be able to defend it on their own. Of course, the government party is free to promote the suggestions that I myself make, but it is not necessarily a good idea to do so. Before Christmas, the Labour Party and the Government Party entered into a budget agreement. In this agreement, the Labour Party had many important fields, fields that are entirely decisive to enable the Labour Party to vote in favour of this agreement at the end. When we come to the revised national budget, we see that almost all of the points for which the Labour Party had received a say have been removed from the Government's proposal. I can say as true, that this does not increase the willingness to cooperate or our joy by entering into agreements with the government party. In my view, this matter should have been brought forward in a completely different way. This procedure causes the Storting to get in trouble. The agreement should never have been terminated in this way. In addition to this, I notice that once again, the Right Party has won over the Christian People's Party in an important political cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1862	The situation description underpinning Document No. The 8-proposal, the Government, has been central to the work of the Marine Value Creation Government Committee. That work and Document No The 8 is completely in line. Both documents will also form the basis for the notification of marine value creation and marine development that we have notified. Of course, a programme of value creation, which the representative Elvik was also involved in, must be integrated into a comprehensive fisheries policy. It gets Stortinget to deal with as a separate matter in the form of a large-scale notification. It's a treatment that I'm looking forward to, with the background of the broad consensus that the committee setting shows. That should be a good basis for finding agreed solutions. Innovation Norway already manages arrangements for relatively similar purposes with the proposed value creation programme. Both the Research Council and the Government's Innovation Initiative, Innovation 2010, prioritise the marine sector. I want to come back to this in line with the vote in the budget proposal for the autumn, but, of course, the entire value creation policy must be dealt with in the big message, as I said instead. The vote will also take place on the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Party of Advances to terminate the main agreement for the fishing industry with effect from 1 January 2005. This is in line with the original Government proposal in the context of the revised 2004 national budget. The minority proposal comes up for voting later this evening. The main agreement for the fishing industry was concluded on 3 June 1964 between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Norwegian Fisheries Team and entered into cooperation with a view to measures which could increase the profitability of the fishing industry. The aim was for fishermen to obtain income at least in line with income in other professions, so that the industry could gradually be made independent of State aid measures. So the agreement was an economic agreement and not a general cooperation agreement, as the representative Arnesen seems to think. It is clear from both the agreement and the wholesale treatment in the case of St.melding. No 7 for 1964-1965, on the main agreement for the fishing industry. Following the Government’s assessment, the objective of the main agreement has been achieved. The profitability of the fleet has improved and various measures will reinforce this positive development. The most recent profitability figures from the budget topic show that 21 out of 25 ship groups have positive operating results. The 2002 operating margins for certain groups of vessels are good, for ring-fenced vessels between 24 pst. and 32.4 pst., for snoring craft of 8-13 metres at 14.3 pst. and for gillboats in North Norway of 13-21 metres at 12,2 pst. The introduction of vessel quotas into the coastal fleet has contributed to a better profitability and, with the extension of the unit quotas for the sea-fleet and the introduction of the coastal fleet operational and structural arrangements, the Government has laid the groundwork for vessels to increase their quota base and thus adapt their operations to increase their profitability. In addition, we have laid the foundations of stability and predictability in the quota allocation between the sea and coastal fleet. The same applies to the coastal fleet after the introduction of the so-called Finnmark model. Measured at constant prices, the subsidy framework is reduced from over DKK 3 billion early in the 1980s to 50 million. DKK in 2004. Negotiating forms have been found to be inefficient when the scope of the aid has become as limited as it actually is. As early as 1964, questions were in fact asked whether the Norwegian Fisheries Act alone should be the State’s counterpart in these contexts. In recent years, there has been an increasing gap between the requirements of the Fiskerlag and the state's offer, and there was a break when the Fiskerlag stopped at 200 million. kr, while Stortinget adopted a frame of 50 million. kr. In many contexts, the fishing industry is also best served as the most unsubsidised and as far as possible to be treated as all other industries. The necessary dialogue between the Ministry of Fisheries and the industry will, of course, be pursued in ways other than in the context of the aid negotiations. This will also be followed up as soon as the Stortinget has made its decision. The parties have agreed. The Labour Party demonstrates in its position that through the overall fisheries policy objective, the Storting has given the fishing industry a special role in food and district policy. It is my firm belief that the main contribution of the fisheries policy to rural policy is to create conditions that will create profitable farms on the sea and on land, not primarily through state transfers. The Government will, of course, assess in the 2005 budget what measures are currently being financed under the fisheries agreement to be continued. I would like to remind you that this year's agreement includes both leadership grants and support for self-afraid. But the representative of Enoxsen is wrong when he says that the welfare stations are part of the main agreement. The size is given the opportunity to come back to this in the context of the aid treatment. My conviction is that both the industry and the Stortinget thus have a greater real influence over any targeted instruments in the ordinary budgetary procedure in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1890	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1893	Governments are committed to finding that this is not an agreement for cooperation. This is contrary to the view of an overall industry on this issue. If the financial part is to be entered in the annual budget, that the Government is willing to include it in the annual budget, why did it start by cutting the guarantee card, which is part of this agreement? Why does the Council of State need to get rid of this agreement, against an overall desire for nutrition? After all, it is not a requirement of the industry to withdraw the agreement. On the contrary, there is a demand from the industry to keep it. Does not the Council of State feel that this weakens cooperation with industry and that the possibility of agreed measures for industry is thereby weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1900	You're probably a little bit tough when you say a total fishing industry. This is an agreement between Norway’s Fiskarlag and the Ministry of Fisheries. It may not be that a total industry, including industry, sales, the production of white fish and pelagic fish, is as coherent as this claim is made. There is no doubt that the main agreement includes financial support and, of course, there has been cooperation in this regard. But the agreement as such is not a general cooperation agreement. On the other hand, I agree that once the Stortinget has made its decision, and if it is the minority's proposal that is being adopted, we shall sit down and discuss how we should continue the dialogue on the needs of industry in terms of economic instruments. Then, of course, for each budget, the Government will consider whether any of these instruments, whether in the case of leadership grants, self-afraid subsidies or other, are to be continued. When the warranty ticket was brought into this, it is quite natural, because the guarantee ticket was financed from the main agreement. That's the explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1908	It is not the position in itself that is suitable to surprise in this case. The fact that the government wants to cancel the fishing agreement is well known. What surprises us, and many outside this house, is that a government can choose such an unprofessional way to approach an industry and the Stortinget. I think the few would have thought of the possibility of cancelling a two-party agreement in a completely different document proposal, which the Government has chosen here. Of course, the government is free to believe it and free to cancel an agreement, but it's getting a twist of a æ da bed da policy over itself, i.e. such an unprofessional policy in such an important field. Ah then probably to the Workers' Party, who signed the agreement, but also to the Fiskarlag: Behold, we are able to get it to - æ da be da! It is in a way the seriousness of the work that a government is going to do, and the work that Stortinget is going to do, which is being put in trouble here. I heard the statements of the Council of State. Can he understand that in this case the opposition believes that this government is acting disrespectfully, if they really thought it was serious that they chose a different approach? Can't the Council of State see that there's a lack of points in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1915	When the government found that the gap between claims and decisions in Stortinget was as large as it turned out to be the last year - we have seen an increasing difference between expectations and what has been possible through an agreement - we started an assessment of the termination of the agreement. We have terminated the agreement in line with the terms of the agreement, and we notified the Stortinget through the revised national budget. Then it happened that, in the context of the budget agreement, it was not wanted to be dealt with there. As has been stated here, the parties to the agreement agreed that the matter would be raised in a different context. Then I have no objection to the matter being promoted as it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1922	First, my point about what I said about the welfare stations. It was not a consequence of the non-allocation of the fisheries agreement, but it was that these stations have just been closed down to a certain extent due to a lack of funding. And it really just enhances my point. It's not part of the agreement. This is the subject of annual budgetary appropriations without discussion and with the consequences thereof. The Minister for Fisheries has now, in his intervention, argued in detail why the fisheries agreement should be terminated. See that it really makes sense to do so and replace it with other measures. There is then one of the problems for us at Stortinget that the Minister for Fisheries, in the revised national budget, for the first time, has not given any indication as to which arrangements to continue. Secondly, today the Minister for Fisheries has put forward a very clear argument that can only be interpreted in one way: next year’s allocation will be lower than the 50 million. kr that the breach occurred this year. If not, I am completely unable to understand why the Minister for Fisheries has such a hurry to have the agreement terminated now, and that he could not have followed another procedure that would have led to this being done in a more amicable way. So, if I can be allowed to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question: if the Minister for Fisheries later looks at this, how much does he regret the procedure, on a scale from one to ten?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1933	When the government promoted this proposal, it was well-considered and as such it is not about repentance or anything else. I am pleased that this minority proposal can be adopted today. Then I am a little more surprised that you do not have that confidence in Stortinget, or in the industry as such, that they should be able to argue in a budgetary procedure, as all the other industries have to do. Finally, the budget must be decided on by the Storting and, consequently, the framework for any action to be continued. It is not natural for the Government to announce appropriations for the coming year in the revised national budget. Therefore, I cannot say anything about schemes and levels today, but I have announced that the Government will assess whether any of the measures will be continued in the 2005 budget. As far as welfare centres are concerned, it is true that it was cut in the budget as the Government presented in the budget agreement in the autumn between the Workers' Party and the Right – apologies, the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1944	Yeah, it's 11:45 p.m., so
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1947	That heart is full of
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1954	It's necessary to go a little bit further, because this is a special situation. In this house there are both written and unwritten rules for which long parliamentary tradition and practice exist, and there is also a long tradition of how to deal with organisations outside this house. Then you choose such an unprofessional procedure. Only see the situation: the revised national budget has not yet been dealt with in the Stortinget. That decision is made on Friday. This evening, a decision is taken that explicitly states in the agreement that this should not be dealt with in a revised manner, so two or three days are in advance and the decision is given. Can this be called serious political treatment by a serious government? I am very surprised to see that as driven parliamentarians as those who, after all, exist in the government parties in this house, can accept a procedure that is so disrespectful to an entire profession, and not least to a contractual partner. But I do not go into that, because I have not entered into that agreement. But I am amazed that you can really do that, and that the Council of State is standing here on the pulpit of the Storting and says that he has no objection to this procedure. If there had been a faint sense of fingertips in this, the Council of State should have said: I see that we should perhaps have put down a document proposal. You had got it as you would anyway, Councillor, but it had been a more respectable way of going forward!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1965	All speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1968	It is interesting that the representative Djupedal on behalf of SV said that it had been the same decision anyway. I do not know if I should interpret it to that point that in that case SV would also support such a proposal. I take so absolute distance from the characteristic that this is unprofessional treatment. I perceive that Storting's handling of matters presented by the Government, or Document No. Eight proposals are a serious one. Something else I had not expected representatives with long parliamentary experience to say from the Parliament's pulpit. This is serious, both the proposal and the reading, but that the representative, Mr Djupedal, perceives it differently, gets to account for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1977	It must be a historical interpretation of another party's policy that the Council of State is doing well to get what Djupedal said, to be that SV would have voted for the termination of the fisheries agreement. The reason is that a minority on the Storing cannot prevent a majority on the Storing from adopting what they want. This minority cannot prevent the plurality from promoting this proposal and get it agreed in connection with our Document No. Eight proposals. But it doesn't belong there, and it shouldn't have been there. When the Council of State argues that the agreement has not been effective, and that the Norwegian Fisheries Team should not have been the only parties to the agreement, is it natural to ask the Council of State whether it would not have been intelligent to change the agreement rather than cancel the agreement? But what I want to challenge the Council of State is: I don't think it makes any sense to the Council of State that the opposition is furious, but doesn't it make any sense to him that the leader of the Norwegian Fisheries Team is using as strong words as he does in the daily newspaper today, where he wonders whether this Council of State is really the Council of State for? At least it's not for the fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1986	I read the newspapers, and I read the headline in the paper today. I have also attended meetings in the fisheries organisations, including meetings where the manager of the Norwegian Fisheries Team participated. It's clear that we're not content to cancel the agreement, but now it's probably a little different in terms of the value of the words as if you're standing on the platform or in terms of the media. I remember the sharp tone that's in the media today, but it's a much stronger tone than what I heard, for example. Troms Fiskarfling's annual meeting. It is enough to be influenced in the debate that is. I am absolutely sure that the Government will take the challenges of the fishing industry so seriously that we will also see to it that there are instruments that will take care of the considerations we consider necessary. Therefore, we shall assess this on an ongoing basis during the budget procedure of the harvest. Then I have faith that both the industry and Stortinget are able to handle it. And if it turns out that the Storting is not satisfied with what the Government has presented, I also assume that the Storting knows how to handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e1998	Replicate cord shift. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e2003	Let me first say that what this matter is really about, the proposal from the SV on a value creation programme for the fishing industry, is a great idea, which the Committee collectively asks the Government to consider. But it's like the debate on this great idea has drowned, because the majority of the Biggest has "clouded" a foreign element. The leader of today's fishing magazine has the title "Unworthy in Stortinget". The leader is too long to quote in its entirety, but I include the following quote: "We've always been a supporter of the Norwegian fisheries community's involvement with the Stortinget. When making important road choices, decisions should have as strong a democratic anchor as possible." The fishing magazine poses a major question in the leadership of the way Stortinget has been operating fisheries in recent days, and continues: "As it looks now, it is thanks and good-bye both to the fisheries agreement and to the safety training. That's bad enough in itself. Worse still, there is clearly a political game in which the game itself has greater value than the consideration of the matters to which it relates - and the people who are actually affected." Reactions to what is about to happen have been very strong. Norway's Fiskarlag believes, inter alia, that: that the Government has deceived the Workers' Party and that this case is not suitable for creating confidence in the political system. State Council Ludvigsen said at the annual meeting in Troms Fiskarfyling last Friday that there was no basis for the criticism that had come, and that the Workers' Party was well aware that – i.e. the termination of the main agreement – would come into question before the revision. The workers' party negotiators reject this. The main conclusion of the fisheries journal is that there is an unworthy political game in Stortinget. I don't need to be a judge in that game, but the comments in the case and the debate so far clearly give the impression of a matter with an unusually high temperature. I think that's all there is to it. Representatives Kristiansen and Molvær Grimstad have today said that they want close, good and constructive cooperation with the industry. Those are the words that State Council Ludvigsen also uses. So we who do not have access to the innermost political circles of the Government can wonder: Is this the new government's new way of creating agreed solutions, and good processes with the industry? If not, what is the reason why you choose to act like an elephant in a glass house? I do not raise an eye-head over the political immorality that the Party of Advancement and the Right stands for in this matter, but that the Christian People's Party takes on the emperor's new clothes without shame, making all the same eye-hairs raise in chorus. The big business has abused power in this matter, an abuse of power that undoubtedly damages the reputation of Norwegian top politics, both in the industry and among the people most. An abuse of power that I am ashamed of. Finally, that the Council of State has had a discussion about what the chairman of the Fiskerlage believes or does not mean, I do not want to have any opinion about it, but it is clear that they have not been at the same meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e2032	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see p. 3371]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e2045	The Stortinget is then ready to go to voting about the matters that are listed on today's map. It could be a relatively long voting, so the president hopes the representatives are ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e2052	A total of 35 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, by Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, by Petter Løvik on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeld on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 6-17, by Mr Svendsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposals Nos. 18-34, by Heidi Sørensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 35, from Jorunn Ringstad on behalf of the Center Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 35, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "Border for transport will be increased by 30 billion. for the period 2006-2015.The increased frame will be distributed as follows: Addition from the Center PartyYearly EffectCape. 1062 Coastal works + 1 billion $0.1 billion. Kroner Cape. 1320 Statens vägvesen + 19 br. SEK + 1.9 billion crowned as follows:- Item 23 Operation and maintenance + 4 billion. $0.4 billion. krona-Post 30 Rijksvej investment + 10 br. $1.0 billion. krones- Post 31 Racial protection + 3 billion $0.3 billion. KronerMap. 1320 item 72 Purchases of road transport services + 1 billion $0.1 billion. Kroner Cape. 1350 Railway station + 9 billion SEK + 0.9 billion SEKSum + 30 billion krona plus 3 bn. kronor The funds within the chapter are distributed in line with the Centre Party's comments at Innst. S. No 240 [[2003-2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e2167	The proposals are then put to the vote. 18, 19, 20, 22, 24 and 33, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: "1. The travel framework for the planned period 2006-2015 is increased by SEK 43.5 billion compared to the Government’s proposal. The funds are allocated as follows: MEASUREMENTYearly effectRailway + 30.1 billion SEK + 3.01 billion Family Roads - 5.47 B.C.E. $0.574 billion Other highways + 3,47 billion SEK + 0.347 billion SEKRassicherung + 2,0 billion $0.2 billion. NOK Cycle and walkway + 3,4 billion $0.34 billion KronerKystverket + 2,0 billion $0.2 billion. SEKBuy of national road haulage services + 1 billion $0.1 billion. kronerBuy of airport services + 0,5 billion. $0.05 billion SEKCollectural transport + SEK 6.5 billion SEK + 0.65 billion kronor 2nd@item: inlistbox The resources within these main frameworks are distributed in line with the comments of the Socialist Left Party at the Innst. S. No 240 [[2003-2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e2295	The proposals are then put to the vote. 21, 23, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32 and 34, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e2377	The proposals are then put to the vote. 6, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16, of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e2496	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7, 9 and 17 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e2525	The rapporteurs of the Labour Party have asked for a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right and Christian People's Party, before proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, is taken up to voting -- this is because it's about dividing the frames. If there are no objections to it, the President will comply. - That's the way it's going to be. The proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party reads: "The size asks the Government to assume that the relative increase will be about the same for road and rail, if during the planning period there will be higher annual budgetary frameworks than the St.meld planning framework. [[2003-2004]] No 24
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e2543	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: "1. The FrameworkSize requests the Government to increase the traffic frame by 22 billion. SEK in the period 2006-2015 in relation to St.meld. [[2003-2004]] No 24 2006-2015pr. årWeg:Stamvejar 4 brd. $0.4 billion 5 billion remaining national roads. SEK0.5 billion SEKRassicherung 1 billion. $0.1 billion. KronerRailway:Investments in line 10 billion. B.C.E. kronaOther collective measures:Incentive scheme 1 billion. $0.1 billion. crownsAlt. use of national pesticides for monitoring purposes 0,5 billion. SEK0.05 billion KronerKystverket 0.5 bn. SEK0.05 billion kronerTotal 22 billion SEK 2.2 billion. kronor
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3250	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3289	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government asked the government to investigate the possibilities for passenger train operations on the Alnaban."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3303	The suspension shall then be contested and the President shall state here that the first three lines of proposals for decisions shall be deleted. It's because of a so-called incurrency that they've been standing there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3321	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Svendsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Geir-Ketil Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a case where the air navigation service is taken out by Avinor AS and becomes a separate administration unit under the Ministry of Transport."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3344	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "Avinor AS is established as a "Non Profitt" company where no dividends are paid, and where the profits after provisions are used to keep user charges as low as possible."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3384	During the debate, Mr Svendsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government asks the Government to present its own case to the Stortinget where the principal aspects relating to the establishment of a national "Quick Route Museum" are taken."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3437	Were there many people who did not vote here? The president doesn't think the numbers are right. There were several people who didn't vote, so we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3477	During the debate, Mr Svendsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget in connection with the 2005 State budget with proposals for a budget of 99.5 million. funds for the full financing of the Imarsund project without toll collection." This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3509	In the course of the debate, 12 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Akssen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, 3-5, by Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 6 and 7, from Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party The President noted that proposal No. 6 is distributed in the amended version room. Continue the proposals No 8 and 9, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 10 and 11, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 12, from Olav Akssen on behalf of the Workers' Party The proposals are included in the vote, with the exception of the amended proposal No. 6 and proposal No. 12, which is also distributed in the seats of the representatives. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 10 and 11, of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3560	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government asks the Government to come back with an assessment of the further expansion of the NIS registry's operating area in 2005."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3574	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government is asking the Government to propose a new system of taxation of maritime activities in the context of the 2005 state budget. [[Tonnes tax system]] The new Norwegian system shall be based on the tonnage tax models in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Denmark, both in terms of the content of the system and the structure of the system. The system must be based on the following elements: 1st@item: inlistbox The shipping tax is governed by the source of income and is determined as standard income. The level is adapted to Europe.2. The company is free in relation to the organisation of operations and capital.3. The taxation of financial income and currency is harmonised with the tonnage tax scheme in Denmark.4. The exemption shall relate to the level of company taxation. Shipwreck income is taxed by personal shareholders, cf. the solutions in Europe.5. The concept of maritime revenue as well as qualifying activities is adapted according to the models in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Denmark."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3604	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3607	Is it going to split them? The Labour Party will be on proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3614	And then we start again. There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government is asking the Government to come back to the Storting with an assessment of how to facilitate the conditions for freighting vessels through coordination and reduction of State fees for ships from the financial year 2006, provided that the loss of revenue for the areas concerned is fully compensated by public transfers."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3632	It is then voted on the amended proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government is asking the Government to establish new means of development which, in the framework of the EEA Agreement, may give Norwegian shipyards priority in the development and construction of the five gas ferries." The Labour Party has announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3638	The party of progress, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3645	The Progress Party must also support it? That was interesting. It is then announced that the Labour Party and the Progress Party will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3658	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3-5, from the Progress Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3687	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government is asking the government to carry out an evaluation of the effects of the special tax arrangements and the framework conditions of this industry. Including an assessment of how reiarlaga contributes to jobs for Norwegian seafarers, and the use of Norwegian equipment and supplies."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3701	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government is asking the Government to stop proposals for changes to the foreign regulations on working conditions for foreign crews on foreign ships on Norwegian domestic voyages."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3715	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government is asking the Government to reduce the net wages of seafarers on its international voyages in NOR, to cover only compulsory on-board security teams. [[(see section 4.4). alarm instructions)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3730	There may have been some confusion, but since proposal No. 5 times, the Senterpartiet would vote subsidiaryly for proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3737	Then we take proposal No. 12, from the Workers' Party, up to new voting. Then they get to support what they can and will.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3749	I voted incorrectly, I would vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3756	Then there are 54 votes against and 47 votes in favour. Still, it won't be conceited.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3784	The President expects the Right, the Socialist Left, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3802	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3805	We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3825	The President expects the Right, the Socialist Left, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3849	Here's reason to expect that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3907	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-6, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 7, from Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government asks the Government to present any questions about major changes in structural policy to ordinary treatment in the Grand Duchy."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e3932	There will then be no alternative between the setting and the proposal No. 1-6, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e4130	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has tabled two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. The first proposal reads as follows: "Proposal for a new reindeer management agreement is not accepted.IIExisting scheme for the reindeer management agreement is repealed.IIIThe Government asks the Government to submit proposals for reindeer management subsidies and other state financial measures against reindeer management in the ordinary state budget without prior negotiations."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e4217	from the hall): I voted wrong! I had to vote in favour, but I voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e4224	We're going to change the result, so it's going to be right. The result of the vote is that 83 voted in favour of the Committee's position and 16 against. The Committee's position is thus favourable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e4231	During the debate, Ivar Kristiansen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The reduction agrees with the termination of the main agreement for the fishing industry with effect from 1 January 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e4255	So we're done with the voting on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-2.ana.ud2661e4264	There is no record.
