ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e32	The representative Siri Hall Arnøy will present a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e35	On behalf of the representative May Hansen and myself, I would like to put forward amendments to the Law of 4 July 1991 No. 47 about marriage, gender-neutral marriage law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e40	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e54	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e61	The Government suggests in Ot. pp. No 27 for 2003-2004 a separate law on arbitration. The Law shall replace Chapter 32 of the Law on Disputes, as per. Today, the Arbitration Institute regulates. The bill is based on the Committee on Disputes on Arbitration, NOU 2001:33. Arbitration is an alternative to the judicial process of civil disputes. In an arbitration case, the parties agree to entrust one or more third parties to settle the dispute between them with binding effect. The case cannot then be brought before the ordinary courts, and the arbitral tribunal shall have effect as a normal and enforceable judgment. The government is now proposing to merge the arbitration rules into a special law. This is an appropriate solution, all the time when the Arbitration Institute is significantly different from the ordinary court proceedings. By law of arbitration, the procedural rules for arbitration become more detailed and systematic. It is a public interest to ensure that arbitration is a proper means of resolving disputes. The new law should provide for more modern legislation and improved consumer protection and contribute to more efficient arbitration. The proposal also facilitates the resolution of international disputes by arbitration in Norway. The proposal continues the main principles of today's rules. The legislative proposal provides for the tasks of the General Courts in the area of arbitration and lays down rules for dealing with such cases. However, certain amendments are proposed. It has to be, for example: no longer constitutes a general requirement for written arbitration agreements. However, I would like to make it clear that an arbitration agreement requires the parties to waive central rights. The principal object is the right to have a dispute brought before the ordinary court. It is therefore necessary to make strict demands that arbitration be deemed to be adopted by the parties. Writtenness is still recommended, but thus no longer follows as a general duty in the law. In the interests of consumer protection, arbitration agreements in consumer relations are an exception. Such agreements shall always be in writing and shall be included in a separate document. There shall be no possibility of concluding an arbitration agreement in consumer relations for future disputes only in the case of disputes which have already arisen. It is also new in relation to the law in force that the bill regulates the issue of professional secrecy about arbitration. The parties shall not be bound by any obligation of professional secrecy concerning the arbitration procedure if they do not agree to this in particular. The parties themselves decide whether and to what extent the arbitration shall be public. The principle of party autonomy is central to the arbitration institute. The provisions of the law can therefore be largely waived by agreement between the parties. However, the possibilities for doing so are limited in consumer relations. The legislative proposal lays down rules for the handling of both national and international arbitration disputes in Norway. In addition, rules on the recognition and completion of foreign arbitration judgments are laid down. The proposal is systematically and substantively based on the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law’s model of international arbitration, but certain exceptions have been made in the interests of consumers. The Committee has found reason to make a minor amendment to the Government’s legislative proposal. Paragraph 26 of the bill provides rules as to whether the arbitration proceedings are to be conducted orally or in writing, and as to how a party is to require the oral treatment of all or part of the case. It also regulates the time at which any oral procedure is to be conducted. A collective justice authority believes that there should not be any possibility of derogating from Section 26 of the Act in consumer relations. A single judicial authority believes that the Norwegian legal system must recognise arbitration as an alternative dispute resolution model – not least because the arbitration institution is recognised in international trade relations. If Norwegian law were to prohibit arbitration, it would have adverse consequences for, among other things, the export industry. I would also like to stress that the Arbitration Institute is a natural consequence of the fundamental principle of freedom of agreement. Law on arbitration involves the modernisation of the procedural rules on arbitration, so that they meet the current need for regulation, availability and predictability. I would recommend Odelstinget to join the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e95	From the very beginning of society, there have been different forms of dispute resolution. From an old age, we know that the dispute resolution could be violent, while, fortunately, self-esteem in business relations has been carried out in more peaceful forms. Later, both criminal and civil cases have been resolved through the courts. Today, in court, we have a clear distinction between civil and criminal matters. In civil law, a kind of two-track dispute resolution system has developed by either using the judiciary or arbitration. An arbitral tribunal has the same effect as a judicial judgment. That is why, until this legislative proposal, we have also had some rules on arbitration in the General Arbitration Act. So in the legislative proposal that we are going to vote on today, we are going to separate the rules on arbitration into our own law. I think that – and obviously the committee – is practical. Arbitration shall be based on voluntary participation and, for that reason, it is in my view practical to distinguish the rules from the general dispute law. When the parties choose to resolve a conflict without using the legal instrument themselves, it is my fundamental view that the parties should have the greatest possible freedom of agreement, both in terms of process, form and outcome. So they get that by this new law. Still, we see that arbitration is being used a lot. The international model of UNCITRAL is widely used. From international conventions and practices, we know that it has developed systems and detailed regulation for arbitration. For this reason, it is practical that we now have a framework for those parties who want to avail themselves of arbitration. In my view, therefore, it is close to adopting rules that are close to international practice, and the Government's proposals put forward precisely this. Another advantage of legislating these arbitration rules is that if the parties wish to apply such rules, it is predictable for both parties to know how the process should be conducted. In the examination of the legislative proposal, the specific relationship with consumers has been a topic. The right is concerned that the use of arbitration by consumers is not made worse than by the use of ordinary legal proceedings. This is borne out in the bill by the fact that only after a dispute has arisen can it be agreed between consumers on the settlement of disputes by arbitration. In this way, consumers are given the right to vote, and I am pleased to be given the right to vote. I am also pleased that the Government in the proposal discusses the relationship to the confidentiality and disclosure of arbitration agreements. On the one hand, it may be useful for society to know what the outcome of arbitration is. On the other hand, I understand that for good reasons, parties do not want the public to understand, for example: business secrets. Furthermore, I believe that it may seem less conflict-absorbing and more atoning when the parties know that what is decided does not become publicly available. For this reason, I am pleased that one also uses contractual freedom in relation to publication.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e117	Most people think of the courts when it comes to dispute settlements in which the parties have stuck and fail to reach an agreement. As this case shows, arbitration is another and not so rarely used alternative. As the Government points out, there are no extensive studies on the extent of arbitration. The perception is that it is relatively little used. In this respect, a person shall not disregard the fact that the use of arbitration may be linked to access to the ordinary judicial system. Where it is long queues and costly to resolve a dispute in the courts, one can see that arbitration appears to be a more and more appropriate alternative. In a situation where the waiting lists for civil cases in the Norwegian judiciary are constantly increasing, it would be close to assuming that arbitration will become more common and available. The use of arbitration may relieve the courts of some work. In this way, resources are released to other civil and criminal cases. At first sight this may appear appropriate. The problem that could arise from the widespread use of arbitration is that the judiciary is being harmed. The decisions are not known in the same way, and it will not be given precedent in the same way as a court decision. There will possibly be a juxtaposition that develops alongside the courts, and perhaps also in contrast to the courts. Against this background, it is important that arbitration should be a simpler and more efficient dispute resolution, which is a complement to the civil procedure under the jurisdiction of the courts. In the case of dispute resolution, it is important that the parties have the possibility to carry out a process that brings forward the relevant aspects of the case. In particular, the Progress Party considers that one in consumer matters needs to ensure that the consumer is able to present his case in the best possible way. It is gratifying, therefore, that an overall committee supports the view of the Progress Party that the consumer cannot waive the right to require oral negotiations in arbitration cases. This means that the consumer may choose not to exercise his right to speak, but it cannot be dissociated from a contract before the arbitration proceedings are initiated. In consumer matters, standard contracts are widely used. These are contracts on which the consumer is difficult to change. One cannot ignore the fact that arbitration will be more frequently used as standard conditions in consumer matters. It is therefore important not to put consumers in situations where there is no real choice. In the case of contracts other than consumer relationships, there is no need for an equivalent. Finally, I would just like to point out that there is a positive outcome to an arbitration system that works well. In particular, it is important in situations where both parties see the benefit of a relatively rapid clearance, and where the appeal process does not consume much time and effort. As you can see, it's positive that you have an institution where the freedom of contract applies to the extent to which it is provided here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e136	The legislative proposal is a follow-up to one of the two investigations by the Dispute Goals Committee. I am pleased with the broad agreement this has reached in the committee, so I will be very careful to make a few brief comments on what the committee has said. I have noticed that the Committee has proposed that the provision on access to oral treatment cannot be waived in consumer matters. I believe that the committee here expresses a purpose that the ministry has also intended to pursue. I agree, of course, with the Committee that it is not desirable to discourage consumers from concluding agreements to use arbitration, but I would nevertheless like to make it clear that the Ministry of Justice's objective is not to relieve arbitration of the ordinary legal system. The Arbitration Act is primarily a tool for resolving commercial disputes. In particular, due to the fact that the process may be costly to the parties, arbitration is initially not an appropriate dispute resolution option in small disputes between private individuals or in consumer disputes. I have also noticed that the Judicial Committee, like the Ministry, believes that there is reason to consider the issue of the right to enforce the decisions of arbitration on temporary custody when the UNCITRAL Working Party on Arbitration has concluded its work on this issue. The Ministry of Justice, as requested by the Committee, will provide feedback on the assessments and conclusions drawn by the Ministry in this context. The Ministry will follow up the Committee's request for proposals for amendments to the law on limitation of the limitation period in the event of arbitration, at the latest at the same time as the proposal for a new law on disputes. I am pleased that the UK Justice Department has otherwise joined the proposal, which I believe will contribute to a better framework for dispute resolution by arbitration in Norway for both domestic and foreign parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e149	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 365]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e165	The first speaker is Anita Apelthun Sæle – for the spokesman for Saka, Ivar Østberg, who is a member of the Lagginget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e168	On behalf of Ivar Østberg, I will present the case, which applies to a small but important change in the law of union. We believe that this can contribute to a simpler Norway. The Law allows for the creation of joint numbers and established criteria in order to be able to rely on the inclusion in this census. If a person is required to be entered in the same number of persons, he shall, in accordance with the legislation in force, appear before the municipality of residence, which produces the same number of persons. The aim of the legislative changes is to change this in order to bring the requirements for the introduction into the common denominator before the Sameet. The merger shall hereinafter be responsible for the introduction and/or deletion, if it occurs, of persons who consider themselves to be co-workers. The amendment of the law also means that the Samtinget is added to the picture to give consent to the use of the common denominator for e.g. research. A majority of the municipal committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, indicates that there are no objections to the legislative amendment through the hearings. The changes involved, we believe, are positive that the information in the man number will now become more accurate, up-to-date and better available. On behalf of a Consolent Municipal Committee, I urge Odelstinget to adopt the proposed legislative changes in Ot.prp. No 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e183	Just a small comment from the Progress Party on this matter. I will briefly mention that since this is essentially only about regulatory adjustments of a more simplistic nature, the Progress Party does not see any particular reason to vote against this amendment. Of course, the main view of the Progress Party that the Sameting should be closed is firm, but there is a completely different debate that I shall not be going on in this context. In this case, it is a question of changing the way in which the same number is carried out, so that this number of persons is kept running even between the election years. I also point out that the Data Protection Authority believes that the changes contribute to the fact that the information in the same number of persons is more accurate and up-to-date than at present. Once there is a combination and a common denominator, it must be considered reasonable to apply the best practices to ensure that the same numbers are fairly correct at all times. The case also does not involve administrative or increased State expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e196	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 372]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e204	The odelsting should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e890	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e900	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e970	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e980	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12-lower.ana.ud1060e991	There is no record available.
