ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e49	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 492]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e65	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 493]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e81	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It'll be looked upon as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e90	The proposals for amendments made in Ot. pp. No 57 for 2003–04, which we now have to deal with, should be said to be essentially of a technical nature, or changes resulting from decisions taken in the past in large or in large quantities. It is also not the major disagreements in the position that exist on the part of the Committee, except in a few smaller areas. I would therefore just like to review some of the proposals for amendments to the Law on People's Rights that have been promoted in the Proposition. In connection with a change in the pay-as-you-go period in order to be entitled to sickness benefits from two to four weeks, the third paragraph of Section 8 to 24 of the National Social Security Act, which deals with the right to self-announcement, was not amended accordingly. This is now proposed to be amended. This happens as a consequence of the fact that the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, changed the vesting time from two to four weeks in the treatment of Ot. pp. No 10 for 2003-2004. The party of progress was strongly opposed to this extension of the vesting period when this was being dealt with in the Stortingen, but must only accept that the Workers' Party, through its cooperation with the government parties, has ensured that this was given a majority. Nor will I start a new debate on this issue at this stage, as the matter has already been lost through the decisions taken. In addition, the Government proposes that social security offices be allowed to take decisions on rehabilitation benefits during the waiting period in connection with the promotion of vocational rehabilitation requirements. This is supported by a unanimous committee. Furthermore, a clarification is proposed in the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 12-12 to clarify that the waiting time for the right to freedom also applies when a higher degree of disability is granted. This must, in the view of the majority of the Committee, be seen as a clarification of current practice rather than a new policy. In this context, there is reason to refer to what appears during the treatment of Ot. pp. No 102 for 2001-2002 Chapter 6.3. Rules for the reassessment/fixing of a new disability, which reads: "From the first of May 1997, the amount of exemption was raised from half to a full basic amount. A year may have elapsed from the grant to the pensioner of income of up to one basic amount without any revision of the default rate. A new one-year waiting period shall occur each time a decision is taken to amend the default." [[reassessment]] The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left, points out that the purpose of the exemption scheme is to stimulate, as well as to facilitate, activity and maintenance of the employment relationship for the disabled. This majority indicates that a number of requests have been made known that the practice of the exemption scheme appears to be complex and based on unbridled legislation. The majority therefore promote proposals to ask the Government to review and provide an overview of an evaluation of the legislation on the exemption schemes relating to the various social security and social security schemes based on public security. The central party in the setting announces that they will vote against the change in § 12-12, and the reason for this I believe they will produce themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e110	I think it is gratifying that a majority joins the legislative changes proposed in this motion for a resolution. These changes mean that we have the necessary clarification and simplification of legislation. However, I find reason to comment on two points in the setting. I will first refer to the reason the government gave in Ot. pp. No 10 for 2003-2004 to extend the entitlement period from two weeks to four weeks: "With only two weeks' pay, and with sickness benefit entitlements of up to three months' notice from work, many with weak and sporadic links to the working life are also covered by the sickness benefit scheme. In fact, it is a condition that unemployment must have resulted in loss of pensionable income, but without strong points of view on the contrary, it is often necessary to assume that this requirement is met. The Ministry considers that a somewhat stronger link should be required to the labour market in order to fall within the sick pay scheme. It is therefore proposed to increase the working time from two weeks to four weeks." There is no reason to view this as a breach of the contract of an inclusive working life. These are small and reasonable changes. These small changes help to maintain the world's best health pay system, with full pay from the first day. I think we have to be allowed to claim that there is a reasonable relationship between what you provide and what you get back. I also believe that the extension of working time is a sensible measure in view of the challenges identified in relation to welfare schemes resulting from the EEA enlargement. There is also reason to point out that the overall impact of the changes is expected to result in annual savings of about 90 million population. kr. In addition, I would like to comment briefly on the majority's proposal to oblige the Government to evaluate the legislation on the exemption schemes. In my view, the proposal is based on false premises. Freedom is not, as the majority claims, justified by the need to maintain a link with the labour market. It is, on the other hand, to regard it as a "tolerance amount" in order to avoid the imbalance having to be adjusted too often. The majority, in their comments, state that the practice of the exemption scheme "seems to be complicated and based on unbridled legislation". The legislative changes that are now being adopted remove the uncertainties that may be present in the legislation, and I am pleased that an overall committee supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e130	Today's legal changes are a continuation of the Government's work in clarifying and simplifying the People's Security Act. The Christian People's Party subscribes to this objective and the concrete proposals in the overall proposal. During treatment of Ot.prp. No 10 for 2003–04, entitlement to sick pay was extended from two to four weeks, in order to better target the sick pay scheme against people with a stable link with the labour market. Full compensation is granted from the first day. The scheme is an adjustment of the criteria, but not a weakening of the sick pay scheme. The right to self-declaration in Sections 8 to 24 should follow the same deadlines, and the change therefore becomes a consequence of the adoption of the retirement period for entitlement to sickness benefits extended from two to four weeks. The SV and the Central Party consider this extension to be a tightening of the sick pay scheme and refer to the intentional agreement on a more inclusive working life, the IA agreement. It is important to stress that the Government and the social partners agree to continue the IA agreement for the agreed period until the end of 2005. Although one can see positive trends in some IA companies, it is a fact that one has not achieved the 20 pst reduction target. Sick leave has increased by over 10 pst. This concerns the Christian People's Party, and in a later case we will make stronger demands for both the employee, the employer and the doctor. An overall committee supports the proposal that rehabilitation payments may be granted during the waiting period, which may arise from the time when a claim is made in the Aetat on vocational rehabilitation. The Christian People's Party believes it is very important that performance does not stop while waiting for other benefits. The Christian People's Party is pleased that, in a letter to the Rikstrygdeverket, the Minister of Social Affairs is concerned that several groups should not be unduly stopped in their performances. I quote from the letter of 28 April this year: "Where there are persons who were subject to transitional rules who have still not been required to receive vocational rehabilitation, temporary unemployment benefit or invalidity pension, those cases must be completed immediately." In the case of the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 12-12, there is a clarification that the waiting time for the right to freedom also applies when a higher degree of disability is granted. If a person gets a higher disability rate, it is because he is unable to work as much as before. The right to freedom of movement becomes the same before, as it is important, not least for social reasons, that a person has a certain connection with employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e161	A few brief comments on this by extending the entitlement to sick pay by tightening up from two to four weeks in the case of professional relations. We believed that this broke with the intentions of the IA agreement, and therefore voted against this earlier, and we are still of the opinion that this should not have been done this way. So some words to Section 12-12, second paragraph, first sentence, which we want to vote against. The intention of the exemption scheme has been and should continue to be to stimulate and facilitate the activity and maintenance of work relationships for the disabled. Such a person now gets the change in Section 12-12, then there will be a clarification and a legalization of a practice that we do not want to support. Together with a majority of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the SV, we are asking that the Government review and present an overview and evaluation of the legislation on the exemption schemes relating to the various social security and social security schemes based on popular protection. We believe that such a review is necessary, and that at the beginning of this, one should not support a system which is based on the fact that an over-impact person loses the possibility of contact with the labour market for an entire year. We believe that there should be a continuity in this, and if there should be a limitation the first year after the increase in disability, this should limit itself to a difference between the basic amount and the increase in disability benefit. Therefore, as I said, we will vote against the amendment proposed in the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 12-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e170	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e173	I'll be very short. The reason why I take the floor is the statement made by the representative Afshan Rafiq that the amount of exemption is a 'tolerance amount'. So it's not, based on the contributions of multiple parties to this hall over time. We have the amount of income just because we need to be able to have a certain connection with the world of work, so that we can return more quickly. So it's not seen as a tolerance amount, at least not from the Progress Party, but as just an opportunity to get back to work. It was for a time suggested to create a tolerance amount of 10 pst. of the basic amount of the social security. The Stortinget voted down, and the amount was kept free.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e178	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 493]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e191	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e307	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e317	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e362	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e372	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e425	The Central Party has announced that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e488	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e498	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-03-lower.ana.ud17e508	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, capital B is to be sent to the Stortinget.
