ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e27	The representatives Per Roar Bredvold and Morten Lund, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e38	On behalf of Lena Jensen, Inge Ryan, Øystein Djupedal and myself, I will make proposals to make entrepreneurship part of the initial training.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e43	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e46	I am delighted to make a proposal to put in place a system of financial support from the state for an aid lawyer for Norwegian citizens who are exposed to criminal acts abroad. And I am delighted to make a proposal that the Norwegian quotas for free imports of beer, wine and spirits will change and be made equal to the quotas applicable to private duty-free imports of alcoholic beverages between EU countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e53	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e76	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Lars Sponheim State Council Ansgar Gabrielsen State Council Morten Andreas Meyer The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e95	I want to ask my question to the Minister of Health and Care. Today's Newspaper says it reads that the nurses are dying because they fear represals. What matters is that the whole 43 pst. health care providers fear represals if they express themselves publicly, e.g. in the media, on critical conditions at work. This, of course, means that precisely critical conditions and shortcomings affecting patients do not come to the attention of the public. It could mean that as politicians we don't get to know it, precisely because the employees fear reactions if they say so. 28 pst. health care providers report that they have omitted to mention matters that have had an impact on patients’ health. Of course, we in SV see this as very serious. It is important that there is transparency about critical matters, and that procedures are in place to ensure that that information also reaches us to improve these conditions. My question to the Minister of Health is: What does he intend to do with the conditions that are being revealed?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e104	First, I would like to tell the representative, Ballo, that what is mentioned in the newspaper, and that the nurses' union has been concerned about, in my opinion, is a serious problem. What is the main problem is the fact that most Norwegian hospitals do not have the internal control systems they should have to deal with these deviations. There is one hospital in Norway that is ISO-certified, which has the internal quality procedures in the industry in general. I visited this hospital 14 days ago, and it is in Kongsvinger. There you have a completely relaxed relationship, not to make mistakes, but to how you act after you have made a mistake. The most important thing is to recognise that as long as you are dealing with 110 000 employees in health care, there will also be errors in the future. The question is how we deal with the situation that there is mistreatment or near-mistreatment. It's as serious about near-accidents as the accidents. The important thing is to learn from their mistakes. It's been done in Kongsvinger Hospital. I have been looking at the internal control system that you have there, where it was as the representative of Ballo describes that it is in many Norwegian hospitals. The employees were initially anxious to report errors and near-errors. Now, procedures have been put in place where it's almost a virtue to report on these things, not to go through criminal exercism, but to learn from the mistakes you're making. I have taken an initiative against the five regional health companies and have asked for feedback on how they intend to improve the situation described both in the Newspaper and by the Nursing Association, so that they can detect errors and almost errors that have been made in Norwegian health care, so that we can learn from it instead of trying to hide it. There is no reason why employees should not be properly managed in relation to management when reporting on their own faults and, for that matter, on the part of the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e111	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. Henning Jakhelln, quoted in the article, says: ‘The rules are in place. But it doesn't work." And he says that it is "variously horrible" that some are made "to scapegoat". What is also described in the same article is that ‘41 pst. the nurses state that they have formal restrictions on freedom of expression’, and that it ‘contradicts the law’. This means, therefore, that the employer has formally said that one should not be allowed to express oneself on matters that are perceived as critical. What I want to ask the Minister of Health about is how he intends to ensure that neither the municipalities nor health companies implement measures against employees who are in breach of Norwegian law. The Storting has recently dealt with Section 100 of the Constitution, which is intended to ensure the full freedom of expression of various employees about the conditions that we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e127	In my opinion, there are two relationships that we need to see in the context of this. One concerns internal reporting of errors and near-errors and its management. That, in my opinion, is the most important thing. There is the absence of systematic and management anchoring in Norwegian hospitals. The second relationship relates to the ability to express oneself. It is, therefore, the case — in the Norwegian health services as everywhere, even in political parties — that sometimes they express themselves on behalf of a larger group. I think maybe the description of all these related people in Norwegian health care who are not allowed to express themselves is somewhat exaggerated. Of what I see in the media, the absence of statements is probably not the most obvious. What I've been calling for at the meetings I've had with employees in Norwegian hospitals who have pointed out shortcomings, imperfections, and ways of being handled, which are clearly contrary to that institution's interest, is that there is no reason for restrictions to be imposed on the appearance – even in the open room.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e136	There will be three follow-up questions – first Sigbjørn Molvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e139	The last thing the Minister of Health said is interesting. It has to be that if we politicians are to get knowledge about the state of the health care system and try to make the Norwegian health care system better, we are dependent on getting knowledge from those who know the everyday life. Is it not important that all types of health professionals are free to participate in the public debate without being subject to restrictions from their institutions and being threatened with represals? Will this not help us to have a better and safer debate on health quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e146	Basically, my answer to that question is yes. Any indication of faults and deficiencies in the system that do not come to those responsible is a lack of communication in an attempt to improve a system. Although we have a health care system that has to be assumed to be among the best in the world, it's obviously a great potential for improvement. But the best guarantee that we will get the quality we demand in the Norwegian health care system is that we have a completely different approach to how we systematise quality improvements, and to anchor this to management. In Norwegian hospitals, this has been very much at a lower level of service and has not been sufficiently anchored in the boards of regional health enterprises — nor in the ordinary. And if you look at the governance protocols of the five health companies that have been in swing for three years now, I think I'm almost afraid you won't find one thing that's really about this topic. That is why I have put this on the agenda. That is why the Directorate for Social and Health has been tasked with producing a national standard for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e154	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e157	I must admit that I miss a clear statement from the Minister of Health where he says directly to all employees in the health care system – especially in the state-owned hospitals – that if they have knowledge of critical issues that are not solved in an acceptable way, they should be right, but also obliged to inform the public and their superiors. In this way, the fear that people in health care obviously have today is removed. Despite what the Minister of Health is saying, they feel fear, and they should not feel it. I would recommend the Minister of Health to read Minister of Justice Dørum's articles during the discussion of new Section 100 of the Constitution, where he assured us that we should have an transparency policy. In the case of internal and written guidelines, it is not necessary to ask the five regional health establishments how they individually want to do so. As an owner, it must be better to make a single set of legislation and give instructions to follow it. Instead of setting five to invent the wheel separately, the Minister of Health must be able to take the initiative, make legislation and provide full transparency as a general rule in the health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e164	Will the Minister of Health invent the wheel?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e167	It's invented, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e172	I saw that wheel relatively quickly, and I have already started that wheel by asking the Social and Health Directorate to draw up national guidelines. I fully agree with Mr Hagen on what he says implicitly, that there is no reason to have the absence of a directive – so to speak – from the owner for implementation in all five health businesses. That was the very idea behind the new ownership we got. However, the media should not have read much in these three years to see that the absence of cross-enterprise activities is prominent. I can perfectly unambiguously answer what was the beginning of the representative Hagen's question, which concerned the employees. Everywhere I have been in meetings with employees, I have said that there will be no restrictions on the right to express myself – in addition to what follows from the law and regulations to run the Norwegian health service. There should be no special rules for people in health care. The only way we can improve the Norwegian health system is to get a message about the perfections that are being clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e181	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e184	There are several issues of transparency and information. One is what the Minister of Health was primarily concerned with, mistreatment, and that this should be taken professionally. It scares me a little bit that the Minister of Health we have now says that we almost have to have ISO certification at the hospitals to make sure that this is done properly, that the errors are corrected and corrected. I believe that this should happen in any case – ISO certification or not. Then we have opinions in the open debate, this to inform the public about critical matters, about the arrangements that take place in institutions, in governments, etc. That's where there's been big problems now. It is important for professionals to be able to make their views known in this regard, to provide the public with knowledge of the everyday life in which they live, and of the professional starting point. I still think there is reason to ask what the Minister of Health will do in relation to the subordinate staff he has, but who are predominantly out in the institutions. Will he instruct that anyone working in the health sector should have opportunities to participate in the external debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e193	This is going to be a little bit weird. One thing is to open an open door once in a while, something else is when you do it over and over again. I do not intend to impose any restrictions in addition to those imposed by law in this assembly, on the 110 000 employees working in Norwegian hospitals. What goes on the right of professionals to express themselves, I personally don't feel like it's been very awkward, either from the Storting or from the Government. At least no one should feel afraid that giving a message about imperfections will lead to something. As I said, it will also apply in relation to the Boards, which have now opened their meetings. Some of them have tried to bypass this. It's been turned on. My message is clear: The 110 000 employees can express themselves on personal experience, of course preferably internally at first, but completely open in the open room at last – of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e202	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e205	I also have a question for the Minister of Health. By the end of August of this year, hospitals reported a deficit of approximately 2 200 million. kr. The budget agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party ensures Norwegian hospitals 500 million. kr more for operation next year. So in order to balance, hospitals need to reduce their activity by 1,700 million. kr next year, or in other words: over 4.5 million. kr every day, seven days a week throughout the year. What patients will be hit by such a dramatic cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e212	That's right, what the representative says when he points out how big the deficit was until August. I could say that per. Today, everything suggests that the deficit in Norwegian hospitals will be about. Two hundred million. NOK 2,2 billion. That is quite exactly in line with what was budgeted. I understand that the bulk of the population will maintain the demand for budgetary balance by the end of 2004 is later addressed to 2005 by the Council of State. See page 393. This, of course, means that for some health businesses there are significant challenges. Some health businesses will be able to cope with this relatively curatively, for others the challenges will be greater. I think it is quite important to realize that it is not possible by the end of 2004* that all 80 hospitals, i.e. the 30 health establishments are able to do this separately. The ability to reach it in macro is probably greater, because someone has profits and someone has deficits. However, in the broad picture, I believe that, within the framework of the regional health businesses, once the Stortingen has dealt with their budgets, it will be fully possible to implement the requirements of the Stortingen, without necessarily at the expense of the core business of Norwegian hospitals. We must not forget that a not insignificant number of the 65 billion we spend operating Norwegian hospitals go to costs other than the core business itself. It is also where the plans of the different health establishments for structural adjustment will be put in place. There are many good examples around the country's 80 hospitals of what is done about it. However, it is also true that some of these hospitals have disregarded the fact that when recruiting 200 to 300 new employees, costs increase significantly, so that individual health businesses have taken on considerable additional burdens by not following what was originally provided in the Directive, both from the point of view of size and government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e229	I thank you for your answer. We in the Workers' Party are of course for a policy that provides more health for each krona. The major challenge is to improve the effectiveness of Norwegian hospitals in such a way that patients’ provision is maintained, and people can feel secure in everyday life. People have gradually gained experience of what some irresponsible budgetary frameworks lead to. We see that a number of health companies have worked and worked with plans that mean the liquidation of e.g. the feeding wards and the closure of emergency wards. People become insecure when such policies are planned. Now we're going to save $1,700 million. kr, has many reasons to feel anxious. That's why it's important that the Council of State helps make people safe. Can the Council at least guarantee that he will ensure that the budget for next year will not lead to the closure of food departments and emergency services?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e238	Let me first say a little bit related to what's going on, and what's in the media is called cancellations, or what's now they're calling it. When I add the figures for individual health businesses, I see that there is something other than a reduction in the number of employees that is the most prominent. On the contrary, it is actually so that the number of employees has increased considerably in many places. There is an even greater migration challenge when the external framework for the budget is given. Either you add 500 million. NOK or DKK 1 billion, there will need to be structural adjustments in the Norwegian health care system in order to have an operational level adapted to the financial framework provided by the Stortinget. The big problem has been that you have not followed the limits that have been given. When it comes to guaranteeing that some departments in some hospitals will not be closed down, I just have to remind you that the majority of the population has said relatively massively that it is not the matter of the Council of State. It is the governing body in the matters of regional health enterprises, and only cases covered by Section 30 are addressed to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e247	There will be four follow-up questions – first Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e250	The Labour Party and I agree with the government's strong argument in this year's budget that a high proportion of the price of patient treatment can affect chroniclers, elderly people and patients with mental disorders. Therefore, the Workers' Party also supported the Government last fall when the Government came to Stortinget and asked us to tone down the piece price share. Now the Government, together with the Advance Party, has done the opposite of what the Government itself argues with in its proposal for a State budget. The question: Should chroniclers, elderly people and patients with mental disorders now be sacrificed in the search for the so-called profitable patients in hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e257	The answer to that is unequivocally no. There is no reason why there should be a consequence of having a price of 60/40. Either you choose one, or you choose the other, there will be things that speak for one and against the other – and vice versa. We've pointed out some of the possible negative consequences that can arise if you do this in a system without making any other changes. It is now the case that the budgetary agreement concluded with the Progress Party has the effect of discussing together what measures we can put in place to counteract the negative consequences, and that work is already in progress. It is definitely based on the possible consequences, especially where there are no ISF rates, or in the case of the older population, which are often in and out, etc. And it's an overall goal to counteract the possible negative consequences that could arise if you didn't put in any other countermeasures. It's going to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e267	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e270	The supplementary question goes to the Minister of Health. In an article series that is now going on in the newspaper, various groups have been listed which today do not receive the treatment they should have had. This applies to the elderly, to people with eating disorders, to some cases of dying, and to drug addicts, to people with drug problems, and to some insured persons. The common denominator for all these groups is that today’s funding system contributes to the effects that do not concern the groups. As Asmund Kristoffersen was concerned about his question, the government itself has warned against the consequences of it. After all, the Government itself produced a paper for the Storting last year asking that input-based funding be reduced from 60 to 40 p.m., just to avoid a number of unfortunate consequences of the funding mechanism, as the Government itself listed. So this was endorsed by all parties in the Stortinget, except the Advance Party. And then the government reverses that arrangement this year. Is it so that the government's arguments for one year are not valid for the next?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e279	Everyone in this house knows that it is not possible to get through St.prp. No 1 unchanged. No minority government will be able to do that. We've made some compromises in Stortinget, and then we've had some principals. We've presented them in St.prp. No 1, e.g. that we initially wanted to continue 40 pst. ISF. In the agreement with the Progress Party, we have changed this to 60 pst. We've done a 500-million increase. kr, and we have an agreement that says that we should go through everything that is necessary to go through, in order to counteract the possible negative effects that could occur if no changes were made. As for what was the beginning of the question, which is an outline of some patient groups, I fully agree with the representative of Ballo that these have not had the attention of the Norwegian health services that they should have had. That's why I have, when we're going to describe what is going to be equivalent health services, on page 11 of St.prp. No 1 inserted something new – otherwise the first in this listing – and it's diagnosis neutral This will be maintained in the review we're going to have with the Progress Party. [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e286	The President must remind you that one minute is going by! Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e291	The Progress Party is very pleased that input-based funding has returned to 60 p.m., as the Progress Party and the Right have fought in the past. I am also pleased that the Council of State confirms the need for a diagnosis-neutral system. If there are some patients that are so-called more profitable than others, it is the DRG weighting, or the DRG prices – the rates – there is something wrong with, and they have to be adjusted to make everyone equally profitable. The point is to have an incentive for hospitals, and that 60 pst. ISF is probably going to trigger nearly $1 billion more, in addition to the 500 million that are granted, just because you get a growth in patient treatment, like the last time you had it, with 5 pst. - You can count on. So it's a strengthening of hospitals by nearly 1,500 million. kr included in the budgetary agreement. I would like a confirmation from the Council of State that it is a 2005 budget settlement we have concluded, not a 2004 settlement. The Progress Party has always said that in the new era of the 2004 budget, we are going to make proposals to remove a substantial part of the debt to hospitals. I would like confirmation that there is no obstacle to the cancellation of a substantial part of the debt to the hospitals by the Storting in the 2004 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e298	First of course, I want to confirm the fact that what we've agreed on for 60/40 is for 2005. What the Progress Party has on a proposal for this year's budget is the case of the Progress Party and not mine. But it's a very important point Carl I. Hagen does, and as I've done on all the occasions where I've talked about the funding system in the Norwegian hospital system. There are errors and defects in the price list that cause extra economic incentives to be created to deal with the one above the other, to code the other rather than the other. At the moment you have a correct price list, this is not a problem. But the problem is that it is difficult to obtain the right price for all of the operations we have in the Norwegian health care system. Otherwise, one of the weird things is how little we know about the exact cost of dealing with the different conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e308	The President is confident that the parties to the settlement agree on the year of settlement. Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e313	It is interesting to hear that there are more people who are at least willing to cancel debts in health businesses. The centre party has made suggestions on this before and received little follow-up on it. The Health Minister said that a saving of 1,700 million. kr will mean some structural measures and structural changes. I guess there's structural changes that are about to lay down bed units, maybe shut down the entire local hospital. Is it true at a time when we know that we need between 2,000 and 2,500 new hospital beds in 2020 because of the ageing wave? The Minister of Health also says that there are a number of core activities to be carried out, which we shall be able to maintain. But there's a lot of business in hospitals that's not a core business, and we're going to cut it. What business is that? Is there patient-related activity? Is the activity more general medical? I'd like to hear what kind of business it's going to have to go out on when it's going to cut so much money.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e322	First, I can calm both Joy and everyone else who had to worry about hospitalization. I have carried out a review with all five directors of the regional health companies, and there are no plans for the closure of any local hospital in addition to what had already been communicated to Stortinget. In terms of structural things, things have been going on all the way, and they're going on now, but it's based on quality, first and foremost. When a review has been carried out in Health North, for example: cancer, when done in the other health businesses and within the different branchal specialities, is because we cannot manage to maintain a sufficiently competent environment at all 80 hospitals in the country for all kinds of services. This is of great importance, even in a cost-effective context. For other things that are not part of the core business, there may be such a simple thing as in a health company such as Health South instead of keeping accounts 23 places and wages 23 places choose to do it in one place, for example. in Grimstad, as they do now. There are significant savings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e331	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e334	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Oslo District Court makes clear in a judgment that the Ministry has not followed up Storting's intentions in relation to equivalent conditions of competition for the dairy sector. Synnoses The find has paid too much for the milk, and has also paid for the large competitor Tine's capital costs. Nevertheless, the ministry anchors this judgment, and that means great uncertainty for the two small private actors who have problems keeping their heads above the water. When Oslo insists that there is a breach of Stortinget's intentions, would it not be reasonable for the department to contact Stortinget and get a deepening of what is Stortinget's intention — perhaps as a basis for drawing the anchor?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e343	Matminister Sponheim – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e346	The background to this question is therefore that the Synnove Find in June 2001 took a vote against the State of the Ministry of Agriculture on the basis of a decision of 28 February 2001 on the fixing of the countervailing charge, the subsidy and the transfer price. This was therefore the case under the previous government and was applicable from 1997 to 2000. In this case, Oslo took, as rightly stated, a decision on 22 September of this year and declared the decision taken by the Ministry of Agriculture in 2001 invalid. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food believes that there are good arguments against this judgment, not least against the judgments. The Advocate-General has given clear advice that the case should be brought before the Civil Service Tribunal. It's done. The matter is therefore in the legal system, and therefore it is not natural to process the matter further in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e353	It is almost ten years since an overall increase said that there should be equivalent competition in the dairy sector. After that time, only two smaller businesses have established themselves in Norway, and they have major problems keeping their heads above the water, as I said at the outset. That the department anchors the judgment, creates new uncertainty, and Synnøve Finden has put forward plans for start-ups, among others. in Namsos, on the shelf. This means, in the next round, that we will have less competition in the dairy sector, and that goes beyond consumers, who will have to pay higher prices. I remember Sponheim in the election campaign in 1997, when he presented himself as the best friend of small and medium-sized enterprises and wanted free competition. How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e360	It is true that ten years ago there was a complete monopoly in this area in Norway. Slowly, but surely, the rules have been changed, not least through the change in the milking system that was made by me, which is now in force, at the time I have been in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. There are different interests that are balanced in such a system. I have registered that Synnove Find has engaged heavily in a number of areas. The other actor, the Q dairies, has engaged in other aspects of this. We have taken a decision that, at my discretion, balances these interests in a good way for the arrangement that is currently in force. So a lot of that fight, the trial we're talking about, goes back a lot in time. The main area where the monopoly is broken down is the trade in milk from the farmer to the dairy branch. It is the Q dairies that represent, and today there are so many places in the country that there is a real competition for milk producers, by being able to deliver to two recipients of milk.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e369	It will be a follow-up question – Lodve Solholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e372	State Council Sponheim has, as long as I've known, like to present itself as the best friend of small and medium-sized enterprises. In an election campaign after election, and in a celebration after a party speech, he has tried to establish the importance of lack, and that the founders will have the opportunity to create businesses and new jobs, both for themselves and for others. Then we experience that the same council of state, the best friend of small and medium-sized enterprises, in this case take sides with a monopolist that makes the food more expensive for consumers most. Then it's me, as a simple man from the West, having trouble understanding the logic.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e380	Please – the Minister for Food and Drinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e383	I hope it's not a reputation the president contributes to. But it's wrong, what the representative says. No decision has been taken for the monopolist. There are many actors – at least several – in this area, and there is considerable diversity. I mentioned the Q-meierines, which may represent the main counterpost of the monopolist, by giving the farmer an alternative to delivering milk. Now it pops up the processors, the buyers of milk, in many areas in Norway, because I've changed the rules, which allows you to produce and brush yourself, without having a quota. So now it's the diversity that becomes loose. It's wrong, it gives the impression that the only competitor of Tine is Synnove Finden. The company Synnove Find is nice. They make good cheese, but they also make a lot of political noise and create the impression that they're beyond the only business that challenges the monopolist. They're not. We are authority for all, and we want fair conditions for all, also the many who are not screaming in this situation, but who are quite satisfied with the milk system that is established.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e390	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e393	My question also goes to the Minister of Agriculture. According to a survey carried out in the United Nations yesterday, the Minister for Agriculture, at least in part, has stopped his own proposal on the taxation of agricultural property profits in the last hour of the budget agreement – just partially, in fact, that there is a transfer within the family that is not to be taxed. It is quite remarkable, moreover, that the Minister of Agriculture did not stop this proposal before the budget went into print, if he thought it was an unreasonable proposal made by the Government. A year ago, however, the Minister of Agriculture said to me, among other things: The evening post that the law of nodels is an old-fashioned way to arrange the transfer of farms, and that we now need to get motivated young people to Builde-Norway. Is the Minister of Agriculture satisfied with the modernisation he has now contributed to, by punishing young people who do not have much on the farm, by paying a tax of 28 pst. when they take over an agricultural property?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e404	This time it is Minister of Agriculture Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e407	Let me first say that agriculture, in my opinion, has an urgent need to be perceived by the population as a quite ordinary industry and as all other traders. Agriculture needs some special conditions and needs grant schemes in some areas, but does not need special schemes and living in its own world in most areas. As a result, the Government’s proposals for the State budget have been cleared up in part of these special arrangements for agriculture — much more than this is a debate on. The cooperative, the large cooperative groups, has had lower taxes than other companies. It was introduced when there were small cooperatives in the countryside. Now it's the billion-dominated giant group, and this is normalized. The same applies to the rules on average forest equation, where the marginal tax has changed dramatically since it was introduced, to the present day, where the need is significantly reduced. And in this area, where a general profit tax has been introduced also for the share of agricultural property, as is the case for all other traders. When profits arise from the sale of operating assets, there is a surplus tax. That's what the government has founded. Then it's clarified, I hear, and read in the newspapers – I haven't commented on it to any newspaper – that there has been a solution, through treatment in the Stortinget, that one chooses not to base a profit tax on cases where one does not maximise the sale price, but where one assumes a clear under-price that is regulated in the law of taxation, the so-called 25 pst. discount, which in Norwegian law is exempt from inheritance tax. They mean when properties are sold, which automatically have 25 pst. Price reductions – i.e. where the seller does not try to get the highest possible profit, but tries to find a good solution for his descendants who have a right to work and who are in the family – and you have a full exemption from the housing, like all other citizens in this country, it is clear that there is a lot to do before any profit arises, so this is probably not very profitable for the state, but it is good psychology and sends an important signal. But when someone sells e.g. a forest property with no significant profit, it is natural to pay a profit tax, as all other operators in society do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e416	The Minister of Agriculture may have kept his words, that he has not spoken about this to any newspaper. But according to the nations, this has been said at a seminar in Ulvik. And also in Ulvik it's probably that it's referred to the media, and that's probably from the seminar that this statement stems from. The main point is not whether the Minister of Agriculture has said this or not. The main point is whether the Minister of Agriculture is satisfied that this year he is doing the very opposite of what he said last year, when he wanted to stimulate young people who did not have no good, to buy a farm, while the proposal that is now adopted in Stortinget means that those who buy a farm without no good will be punished with a higher tax than those who have no good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e423	The current rules mean that properties sold at full market prices – i.e. where the seller tries to get the highest possible price – and which achieve a gain will be taxed. When you sell to your children, with the automatic discount and the exemption from inheritance tax, there will be no gain tax. Then there is no gain, and then there is nothing to tax. But that's because the buyer's representative, Enoksen, is busy. But the seller has to pay for this. What effect it has on the price is a completely open question, it's impossible to say. In fact, the seller may have an interest in not selling at such a high price that some taxable gain arises. In that case, it would be a gain for those who had to buy this without the so-called right of use, or within the order of numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e430	There will be three follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e433	It is a remarkable fact that a government that says that it is subject to tax relief and less tax burden for people has a bad tendency to increase both taxes and taxes in the district industries, both in terms of fisheries and agriculture. I have to say it's a little funny that parties in government after a budget settlement say they're satisfied that they've changed the government's policy at the last moment. If the Minister of Agriculture has not been out and said so, then the Christian People's Party has been out and said it very clearly. I understand, from the answer given by the Minister of Agriculture here today, that he believes that there have been special rules for agriculture that have been unfortunate, and that he must therefore, in principle, be dissatisfied with the budgetary agreement that has now been reached on the tax increases for agriculture. He believes that there should be tax increases for agriculture at this point, and so he is also dissatisfied with the position of his government party colleague the Christian People's Party and delighted with the budgetary agreement at this point. Am I right, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e440	The representative Arnstad is wrong, there are no tax cuts for agriculture in the budget submitted by the Government. It's a tax relief that's estimated at about 30 million. kr, and it comes from the disappearance of the rental value of the owner-occupied dwelling, while the general housing tax, the benefit tax on the dwelling, is gone. It has a higher income than the tax incentives, clean-up schemes, where agriculture has special tax rules. The Ministry of Finance has made this very clear to the Financial Committee in its deliberations. Then there is a change for the properties that are not sold for the purpose of getting the highest possible price from sale, namely within the family, where one wants to get into a ‘living’ system. It probably has no tax significance, because there are so many discounts that there is no gain – for which I tried to express myself in the answer to Enoch – but that is good psychology. Of course, I support such an adjustment and clarification of these proposals. Otherwise, it is a tax relief to the farmers in this proposal, but it is reasonable that the business organisations would not pay any particular attention to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e448	Inge Ryan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e451	The representative Odd Roger Enoksen addresses this with a worsening economic situation for many farmers. Many may experience the proposal that came from the department and the government, as a clear deterioration, by setting a higher price on the farm when you were going to sell it further. In the wake of this, we are also informed that income is falling into Norwegian agriculture. We see that more than 1,000 use now serves less, that is, has a decline in income, while all other groups in society have an increase in income. Is the Minister of Agriculture satisfied with the figures that came in last week that there is also a deterioration in the general incomes of farmers, and is not the development we are now seeing in many areas worrying about the survival of farms?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e458	First of all, this doomsday description made by lobbyists and business organisations about these tax issues, I now think that in a rather nice way, has been brought down. It's operated on with numbers that have no basis in any of the reality that the Government and the Ministry of Finance have been dealing with. As regards the agricultural business review, it shows a decrease in revenue from 2002 to 2003 of 3 pst., which is 1 pst. if a correction for the increased tax deduction/tax expense granted in the same year. It has three elements: gross income has not been reduced, so that's the cost that's increased in three areas. One is that in the winter of 2003, electricity costs increased by 26 pst. It makes a significant contribution to this result. And then there's two relationships that are interesting, and that's that the farmers have increased the cost of buying more animals and feeding these animals. It hasn't given income, but it's about growing pain. Farmers invest, rate and grow, and it provides expenditure for the first year — in this case 2003 — and increased revenue later. The sum of 2002 and 2003 continues to give the 12 pst. in the increase in income on the basis of which the agricultural negotiations took place in spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e465	Aud Gaundal – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e468	I'm a little bit unsure of what's the reality of the deal. It's like this today that 90 pst. of the farm takeovers take place within the family. Should I then interpret the minister to you that if it's a normal price, is it for the same thing whether this is inside or outside the family?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e473	Tax on profits, which applies to all those who sell food for human consumption in that country, arises when the sum of the sales is higher than the sum of those assets shown in the accounts. For many farmers, this is a big gap, and there's a big gain. So the government says that you can per. year-end records the values of these means of operation at real prices. Then, at best, a very small gain arises. Then you're going to be able to subtract for the dwelling with a natural area around, and it gives a significant deduction, so that for many there is definitely no gain. Then it's the ones that, according to the law, have a claim of 25 pst. Discount without inheritance tax, they will also be free of any gain tax. But those who sell a property and try to maximize profits as much as possible, they have to pay taxes on that gain, like everyone else in this country. And I also have to say that no one in agriculture is more concerned about getting money out of the state fund. It is surprising that so many people are busy not wanting to deliver reasonable money into the treasury when actual profits arise that can be taxed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e482	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e485	I have a question for State Council Meyer. Now it's almost two years since the Stortinget called for a change in the law that requires all the gifts of money to the parties, including those given to the parties, to be published. But the Stortinget has not yet received a proposal for a law. Last week we were familiar with a case in Oslo where the City Council recommended that one of Oslo's richest, unlike everyone else, should be allowed to build far inside Marka, across all the recommendations of professional bodies. Then it turns out later that the same interested party has given hundreds of thousands of dollars in secret gifts to the Oslo Right, and I wonder if not the Council of State on the basis of the kind of things that it looks very suspicious that there is no publicity around this. We need to know who it is that gives gifts to the parties, so that we can also verify the decisions and positions taken in different contexts. Will the Council of State ensure that such legislation is in place in good time before the 2005 elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e496	As the representative Giske is aware, a separate sample has been set up to assess the future batch financing scheme. The committee's suspension will be delivered to me on 29 November of this year, and together with the Minister of Culture, I will immediately initiate the work of sending the Committee of Finance to the hearing. This means that I will be able to deliver to the Stortinget a bill that takes care of the representative Giske is concerned about, so that the Stortinget can deal with this in spring 2005. The representative Gieske points to an important problem, and it is that there should be transparency and security so that we know who affects politicians. However, I would like to stress that the representative Giske himself represents a party that has a significant credibility problem in this area. We are experiencing, not least in these days, how liaison between the LO and the Workers' Party is clearly moving the Workers' Party in a political direction that is different from that of the party just a short time ago. One of the examples is the big and important case in this session about the future pension system, which former prime minister, the current party leader in the Workers' Party, has claimed to be the most important case in this process. So now we see a working party in conjunction with LO that backs the case that just four years ago the Workers' Party itself was characterised as the most important one. There might be something that should concern the representative, I guess, more than small gifts of money from individuals to individual parties. But I fully agree with the representative Giske: this should be the subject of full publicity. And I'm going to deliver a bill to the Stortinget that allows the Stortinget to deal with this before the Stortinget takes a summer vacation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e503	I thank you for the answer and positive signals about getting such a law in place. Now I just have to say that I'm not so worried that an organisation that represents 800,000 ordinary employees looks at the Workers' Party as the security guarantor of their pensions. I have a question for the Council of State. The Prime Minister has said that the gifts from LO to the parties on the left are democratically questionable. Now there's probably few gifts of money there's more publicity about than just these. Does the Council of State think that if the trade unions on Løvenskiold Vækero give money via LO to the Workers' Party in order to secure employment, wages, pensions, protection against dismissal, etc., it is democratically questionable, but if the owner of Løvenskiold Vækero gives hundreds of thousands in secret gifts to Oslo Right and perhaps also gets benefits from expanding into Marka, is that quite right? Does the Council of State agree with the Prime Minister's description that it is democratically questionable that trade-organised donations of their own money to political parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e510	What I see as unlucky democratically is that decisions of directly elected bodies are taken in a room where there is a democratic deficit in the sense that the people's will in elections is not fully represented. What we've experienced during this great period is a working party that operates in a different political direction from that of the government of Stoltenberg, which operates in a direction adapted to the largest trade movement in Norway. It sees several of us as a democratic problem, and as unfortunate for the People's Government. It is not unfortunate to have a strong trade union movement working for the interests of members, but it is unfortunate when parties are dominated by the special interests of trade unions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e516	There will be three follow-up questions – first Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e519	When it comes to this question, I think I would have calmed down a little if I had been a representative of the Right – which I am not – for the money that goes between the trade union movement and the Workers' Party, there is full publicity about. In very many cases, including those relating to those from which the Right is supported, it is not. In the last concrete example that the representative Giske here took up, the Right Town Council in Oslo went in for a large-scale expansion of the Bonna farm in Marka, and it turned out afterwards that Løvenskiold had given, as he himself said, several times money to Oslo Right, approx. NOK 50 000. But it became public because someone asked about it in retrospect. Does this not show that there is a problem for the Right and the parties that receive money from business, that there is no publicity about this, and that is not the problem, and that is a democratic deficit, and not the cases where there is full publicity, as it is actually in relation to the money received by the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e524	I have also underlined in the reply to the representative, Giske, that I agree with the objective of full disclosure of gifts of money also to local parties. I will promote a legislative proposal for the Stortinget, which the Stortinget can deal with in the spring session, in the light of the decision of the Committee on Budgets. It will meet this very requirement and this expectation from the representatives of the Workers' Party. However, I think the representative Brustad is approaching an indication of corrupt behaviour in Oslo and the City Council. This is a gift of money that is now known. The problem should be solved in this way, but the Labour Party is skillfully speaking away from the interlocutory problem of the relationship between the LO and the Workers' Party, which is demonstrably changing the Labour Party's policy in key areas of the renewal of this society into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e531	Ulf Erik Knudsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e534	I am somewhat surprised that the Workers' Party, which has actually changed its policy after their source of funding, the trade union movement, has ordered them to do so, is as high on the ground as is being done in this case. You might want to look at what you're doing before you criticize others. The Council of State was concerned with this with the work of the Committee on Democracy Finance, and we are pleased that this is now being put before the Stortinget. My specific question is: Will there be a concrete legal assessment of this as part of this case with payment for political positions, including the relationship between the Workers' Party and the LO?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e541	The president assumes there was a slight delay. It shall be the Party Finance Committee, not the Democracy Finance Committee. It's not necessarily the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e544	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e549	We'll have the Party Finance Committee's suspension delivered on November 29th. I would assume that the lot finance committee's setting contains a number of exciting issues to address. I'm going to be careful to face what positions I'm going to take, before this work has been at the hearing, but I'm listening to the representative's questions and taking it into account in the further work. My position today – and that may be the most important thing – is that we should have a pace of this treatment that allows Stortinget to deal with the conclusion of the Joint Financing Committee in spring 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e554	Magnar Lund Bergo - the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e557	In some contexts it is said that money does not smell. I am surprised that for representatives of the Government and the Advance Party it seems as if money coming from LO smells, while money coming from Lionschilder does not smell. I note that the Council of State refers to the appropriations from LO to the Workers' Party as being democratically objectionable, while he believes that the money from Lion Shield, and other Lion Shields, which we do not get to know, is not objectionable. He also expresses that this is about small gifts of money. We know that it's all about millions. At least in the SV context, there are no small gifts of money. We're talking about gifts from NOK 20 000 and up. In our mass of members, there are not so many who have such possibilities. We have democracy, free and fair opinion, as our objective. Does not the Council of State, which otherwise likes a level playing field, believe that it is reasonable for all these gifts to be made known?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e566	The President will assume that the word Løvenskiold is a single word and not a majority word.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e570	I would also like to stress that we fully agree that there should be transparency about gifts of money to political parties, both nationally and locally. I have also said clearly and clearly that I am going to promote a legislative proposal that the Stortinget can deal with in the spring 2005 session. I would like to stress in relation to the attacks on the Right as a party that there is full openness in Oslo about gifts of money to the party locally. This government has integrity high on its agenda. This includes, inter alia: An important background for us to propose quarantine rules also for politicians, to which the Stortinge has previously said no, precisely because we are concerned that there should be no doubt about the integrity of politicians and that there should be security for politicians to act with objectivity. We are concerned that there should be confidence in the political system in important decision-making processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e577	So this is the time for the oral questioning process, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e583	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, by Mr Ågot Valle to the Minister for Culture and the Church, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 3, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister of Culture and the Church, will, at the request of the Council of State, be moved and answered according to question 11, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 7, from the representative Johnny Hult to the Minister of Defence, will be raised by the representative Per Roar Bredvold. Question 8, from the representative Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Modernisation, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister for Modernisation, this question is moved and answered before question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e598	The first question to be answered is question 8 from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Food and Trade. The question will be answered by the Minister for Modernisation, who will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e604	I have a question for our Honourable Minister of Modernization: ‘Ministries, counties and municipalities often violate the law on public acquisitions, which is administered by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. As an example, the Hospital Østfold sent patients to the Ringvoll Clinic even though operating prices were much higher than usual. Everything from camaraderie, corruption, masculinity and incompetence can be the cause. Shouldn't criminal liability now be attached to serious offences, so that responsible directors and board members can be fired?'
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e613	Following the change in the ministerial structure in June this year, the administrative responsibility for the law and regulation on public acquisitions was added to my ministry. Like the representative Hedstrøm, I am very concerned and concerned about the serious violations of the law and regulation on public acquisitions that have been revealed both in the past and not least in recent times. Non-compliance is not just about violation of form requirements but means ignoring the purpose of the rules, which is to ensure healthy competition and the efficient use of taxpayers’ money. I am aware that breaches of the legislation may have different reasons. Minor government units and smaller municipalities may have challenges in connecting themselves to the necessary competences to comply with the legislation. But what we have seen in recent gross breaches of the law is breaches by institutions of size more than enough to have the necessary knowledge and resources to know how to buy in line with the legislation. In my department this autumn, we have started a major and extensive work to revise the public acquisition regulations. The objective is to simplify legislation, not to simplify it in the sense of liberalising it in relation to the key objectives of competition and transparency, but to simplify it in the sense that lack of knowledge should no longer be an argument for non-compliance. We aim to have simpler and better regulation adapted to modern purchasing practices. Simplification is intended to make legislation more pedagogical and to facilitate overall acquisitions by the public sector. We also believe that modernising legislation provides the basis for being tougher against what is obvious and deliberate breach of the legislation. Last year, the Working Party on Illicit Direct Acquisitions — AUDA — presented a report with proposals for penalties and measures. These proposals will be considered in the review of the new legislation and the necessary penalties will enter into the new legislation presented to the Stortinget. In this context, legislative simplification is to be achieved, and we will provide for measures of competence and strengthened instruments to comply with and enforce the important and strict procurement legislation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e626	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased that he is now saying this so clearly, so we can count on something being done in practice both with the sanctions option and with a more effective regulation. We're talking about government trading goods and services for 220 billion kroner a year. With effective competition, a saving of 10 pst should be done. be within reach, and that is a significant amount. It suggests that it has great economic consequences for us not to comply with the legislation today. Then back to Eastfold and the favorite of the Ringvoll Clinic. Where public authorities at such a level are responsible for their lack of competence, they should acquire that competence. There are no excuses, in my opinion. That means that we get far fewer health services for budgets. This seems very negative for the sick who have to stay in line for the reason that you do not use the law sensibly. Does the Council of State think that the Hospital of Eastfold in this matter has been very reprehensible?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e637	I am confident that the representative Hedstrøm understands that I should not go into individual matters, especially individual matters that another government council has the formal responsibility for. I note, however, that the Minister of Health shares my views and has exactly the same approach to the need for a follow-up that is far tougher than it has now been, and that we do not tolerate the kind of breach that we have been documented lately. It's quite right, as Hedstrom points out, that we're acting for approx. 220 billion dollars a year, and that a code of procurement that is respected will bring savings. Equally important is the stimulation of public procurement legislation for innovation and innovation. We will help SMEs access this exciting and important market with the public as demanding buyers by means of a procurement legislation. It is one of the important aspects beyond achieving direct savings through strict procurement legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e644	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. Now the administration of the Public Acquisitions Act is placed under the Ministry of Modernisation and is its direct responsibility. It will be the department that has the ongoing contact with ESA. For this reason too, it will be important that we in the larger Europe be perceived as a serious partner. I consider it more a comment that you are now following this up, so that we can be considered a serious partner. Norway, which has an open economy, has everything to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e651	I fully share the concerns of the representative Hedstrøm. I would also like to point out that one of the elements that has triggered the need for a review of procurement law is a new EU directive. This review should just be the guarantee that we are perceived as a serious actor in European cooperation and that we open up competition for the large public procurement market in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e656	So we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e663	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In drawing up the Regional Environment Programme for the Halden River Region, the trade organisations have made proposals to introduce a total ban on harvesting, subject to certain exceptions and conditions. The current regulation on agricultural production supplements does not seem to provide sufficient grounds for introducing a general prohibition on harvesting. Does the Council of State consider that current legislation is flexible enough to allow regional provisions to be adopted in order to reduce harvest ploughing based on the recipient’s tolerability, and for cultural landscape reasons?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e672	Harvest ploughing can initially be regulated by regulation in compliance with the pollution law § 9, cf. Section 8. The Ministry of the Environment has so far failed to provide for this. Any regulation of harvest ploughing must therefore be made by means of other legislation. The regulation on production subsidies, laid down by the law on soil, provides for an alternative way of regulating this. However, as the representative Eye points out, questions have been raised as to whether this regulation provides sufficient grounds for a general ban on harvesting. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food is working to revise the regulation so that there is no doubt about its interpretation and its scope. In the context of this audit, the Ministry proposes that the county should be able to make provision for a non-harvest ploughing by regulation. Such a scheme will meet the need for flexibility and regional convergence. I am aiming for this regulatory change to be in place before the instruments related to regional environmental programmes are implemented in 2005. However, I would like to clarify that the regulation on production subsidies only regulates who meets the requirements for obtaining production subsidies. The regulation will not permit a general ban in the same way as the pollution law. A condition for the prohibition of harvest ploughing in the production grant regulation will also be part of a larger scheme in which the economic premise of the desired behaviour and information and guidance is also included. Overall, I believe that this approach will ensure the necessary environmental considerations and a local space of action in relation to the challenges facing you. I would also like to emphasise that the extent of the economic contribution to changed land use needs to be financed within the allocation framework allocated to Østfold and Akershus for regional environmental programmes in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e690	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good to hear that something is happening in this case, because the Halden watercourse is very heavily contaminated, and there is a great need for action. That is why I want to commend all the farmers' team leaders along the watercourse who go very far and further than the regulations to demand that harvest plowing is not allowed. It's actually like 65 pst. of the areas along the watercourse are in Class 2 and today Class 2 is not covered by these regulations. It is also believed that the people of both these states, Eastfold and Akershus. Do the councils agree? When the Council of State is now going to review the regulations, does the Council of State consider that environmental considerations in this context should not only concern pollution but also cultural landscapes?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e699	Let me first say that I share the representative's view that it is great that farmers along the watercourse, based on their own motivation, take care of their own watercourse even if it is not permitted in a law. It's allowed to do sensible things without the collapse and government lifting his finger and imposing it. That's good, and it shows that responsibility is taken. With regard to the amendment to the legislation which allows one to set requirements for the production premium for harvest ploughing where there is run-off, it is important because it is so obvious that one must avoid those sources of contamination. If one should expand and set more loose conditions in terms of cultural landscapes because one thinks it's nicer with dissolved land through winter to spring, then another question is where I'll think very carefully about. This would reduce the availability of operators. Whether it can be defended by the fact that there might be some subjective views of what is good aesthetics in cultural landscapes, ploughing or not, is another question I'd like to consider in more detail. But we have to intervene directly in pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e706	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to make it clear that because of the lack of funds in the regional environmental programmes and the lack of resources to impose restrictions on harvesting, we will thus have a lower level of ambition in the environmental struggle for a cleaner watercourse than is desirable. When the farmers are now willing to impose such strict restrictions on their industry, it is because they want the Halden watercourse to be a test project and an exhibition window for the rest of the country. At least I think it would be a pity if it should be on a few kroner in support. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State ensure that the environmental project is not stopped due to a lack of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e715	Now it's like trusting local democracy and making decisions closer to those they affect is new. There is a whole new regime in this area that is being introduced from next year for all states. This is consistent with what I and the Left stand for politically, so we are very happy that we can do this. Those who wear the shoe know where it presses, and you can make tailors for your environmental challenges. Substantial funds need to be transferred to regions and municipalities — in total roughly half a billion dollars when implemented. So it's like always wanting more, but this is about priorities and addressing the main environmental challenges. It is important that Østfold, Halden Municipality and the municipalities along the watercourse are able to prioritise this as the most important. I share the questioner's opinion that this is a fantastic watercourse. I have even grown up in Halden and have many times paddled the Halden watercourse in the canoe. So I hope you choose to prioritize this, and that the farmers along the watercourse will take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e734	This question falls away. Question 3 will be answered at the end of the question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e742	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education: ‘In the policy platform of the Cooperative Government, private schools are referred to as ‘Cooperative Government will consider an increase in the operating grant’. How far has the Government come with its assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e751	The Sem Declaration states: «The co-operation management will introduce a separate grant for capital costs and consider an increase in the operating grant.» For the purposes of the overall budget, the Government has so far found no room for an increase in the operating grant to independent schools. However, reference is made to the budgetary agreement concluded with the Progress Party, where independent schools from the 2005/2006 school year will receive 25 million. kr to cover capital expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e761	Thank you for the answer, which was not an answer to the question. So this is the way — at least it is possible to perceive it from the introduction to a response attempt — that there are economic reasons for continuing a variety of treatment for students who choose to go to independent schools and students who go to public school. It is still true that although independent schools are entitled to government grants by approval, they only receive 85 pst. of the operating costs associated with the corresponding public school. There is a variety of treatment that continues. My question, which I then repeat, is: How far has the Government come with its assessment of equal treatment for students in Norwegian school, when, like the Progress Party, you are at the same time concerned with facilitating parents and students to choose the school they want to attend?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e770	I mean, I answered that. The Sem Declaration states that we need to assess an increase. There's still time for that. The Sem declaration is still valid, and we're probably going to present another state budget. But there are economic reasons why we have not proposed an increase in the operating grant. As regards the issue of non-discrimination raised by the representative Sortevik, the Sem Declaration does not state that the Government is in favour of it. There might be some shared opinions about that. I am aware that the Progress Party wants a model where it is 100 pst. coverage and zero ownership. There can be a lot of good arguments for that. Then there's someone who thinks there should be a small proportion of it, that the aid, in this case the aid for operating costs, should be something lower than 100 pst, but that it could be over 85 pst., because there's going to be a small incentive there to choose a college. In addition to that, we have the question of aid for capital expenditure, which has now become, happily, an agreement for a start to the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. There are economic reasons why we have not proposed this so far. But we have not promised equal treatment in the Sem Declaration, in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e779	It is such that Norwegian legislation, the Training Act, states that primary public schools are free of charge and public secondary schools are free of charge. But it's not like all schools are free for all students. On the other hand, the UN Declaration on Human Rights also has an article on education. Article 26 states: ‘Every person has the right to education. Education shall be free of charge, at least at the elementary and basic stages.» Does the Council of State consider that the priority of the Training Act for pupils who choose public schools is in line with the UN Declaration of Human Rights on Free Education, or will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that all Norwegian students receive free education, regardless of who owns the school they choose to be a student of?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e789	I think I heard that this was asked questions about those who choose public school, but I guess the question concerns those who choose high school. I interpret the UN statement so that it is quite obvious that all parents have the right to choose an alternative school for their children, but that it will be up to national authorities to what extent such schools are to be supported. Norway has adopted a strategy that means that to a very small extent it is the wallet that determines whether you can choose a post-secondary school. In fact, we have good evidence to be able to say that it's not. As there is a higher proportion of parents in low-income health schools than in public schools, it can't be the economy that stops parents from choosing a high school. But it is clear that this is an assessment question: should the grant be 85, 90, 95 or 100 pst.? What are the partialities to be taken? Here, there might be a little bit of different vision, and I have respect for everyone's vision. What we've said is that we could imagine increasing something from 85 pst. and to introduce aid for capital expenditure. But we haven't promised a full equal treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e804	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘The County of Oslo and Akershus have carried out a study of the administrative procedures in relation to the psychosocial school environment, cf. training law § 9a-3. The study shows that 50 pst. lack of professional and administrative procedures in schools. How does the Council of State address a requirement for state officials to examine all municipalities in relation to both the mental and the physical learning environment, so that the Stortinget can see how the law is being followed up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e813	High quality of the physical and psychosocial school environment is important for the health, well-being and learning of students. Therefore, there is now much to be done to ensure a good physical and psychosocial environment in Norwegian school. In recent years, the State has provided and will continue to grant grants to municipalities and county councils for the improvement of school buildings. The Law section, §9a of the Training Act, on the school environment of pupils, entered into force on 1 April 2003. The new provisions state that all primary and secondary school students have the right to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. With this section, pupils and parents have gained a greater degree of user involvement and better access to justice. Schools have been given clearer obligations, especially in the psychosocial environment. Through Manifesto against bullying, a comprehensive, long-term and systematic effort has been made to prevent bullying. We have also recently sent out our own guide on the school environment of students, and the Education Directorate has sent out an information brochure to students and parents. I have noticed the supervisory report from County of Oslo and Akershus on the training law § 9a-3. The report shows that there is a positive development in the work to improve the psychosocial environment of pupils. At the same time, it shows that in many schools, action is needed to improve the competence, attention and practices of the school environment. I would like to contribute to the implementation of such measures. The Education Directorate is now working on the preparation of the state report to be completed for spring. One of its themes will be the learning environment. The way in which information is to be obtained and the extent to which the information is to be provided will be assessed in the Directorate during these days together with the assessment of the other issues to be addressed in the progress report. I would like to await the professional assessments of the directorate now, before deciding whether it is appropriate to identify all municipalities. In any case, the state report will address the school environment of students, and the report will provide a basis for assessing the need for new measures. Finally, let me also draw attention to an investigation recently issued by a public body, the Property Management Committee, which has tried to better monitor the state of school construction, i.e. the physical learning environment. It's probably pretty difficult to get a precise survey of it, but one might say that a main conclusion in the sample is that the vast majority of schools are satisfactory. There is a minority that is not, but it is probably also the sample's perception that the current work is ongoing, among other things. as a result of the State Debt facility, a major improvement in the physical environment in Norwegian schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e828	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The fight for a good working environment, both psychosocial and physical, is an overall responsibility for all political parties. Legal rights are important, but it is also essential that you have a good follow-up. It is said that all schools should have plans in this area. It turns out that if not all plans are completely black, at least some of them are quite worrying. It says it's just 3 pst. which describes good practice when making decisions, and there are only 2 pst. which has information on how to inform of judicial remedies, according to the investigation carried out by the County of Oslo and Akershus. It is serious because it means that unclear and non-existent administrative procedures allow students to lose rights, for example: in the case of school, home and student situations, the measures to be taken. If this survey is representative of many other municipalities, it is simply a desire to produce such a basic survey which will allow follow-up also in relation to practice and not only in relation to statutory rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e839	It's probably very much that's not perfect, but I think I can guarantee that we've come further than if we were going to base the consultation proposal on the amended law that the Workers' Party sent out before they left the government offices, because it didn't cover the psychosocial environment at all. We've got a legal provision that relates to both the physical and psychosocial learning environment. So we can say that we haven't got enough good follow-up on it. It's about a year, 1 and 1/2 years after the law came. As regards access to justice and information for parents and students, we have tried to remedy this by distributing a comprehensive brochure in several languages, as far as I remember, to the whole school quite recently. In addition, I would like to look at the questions that the representative Bjørnstad now raises, about procedures and plans, etc. for individual school and municipality and county management. I think it is wise to await the technical advice from the Education Directorate on how to do this, rather than to conclude here in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e848	I thank you again for the Council's reply. I see her as a positive attitude, as she says that whether to study all the municipalities remains to be seen. This means at least that one should use the Oslo and Akershus study on these weaknesses to identify whether this is the case elsewhere. I also add that in those studies there are few traces of pupils and parents helping to improve or follow up the school environment. That, I think, is an essential point, which I ask the Council of State to take along. I am pleased that the Council of State has also given in and will continue the school building lending scheme for the next year by adding funds to the agreement that has been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e859	It is a misunderstanding that that arrangement would not be continued in any case. In fact, we were in front of the original plan with our proposal for a government budget, which was a broad agreement prior to the last elections, namely, NOK 15 billion over eight years. That being said, I can promise a full effort in the psychosocial learning environment of the students. International cooperation in this area has also been initiated, with Norway sitting in the driver’s seat as a result of the considerable work being done. Twenty countries around the world have reported their interest in participating in such an international network, and this is because we are doing a lot to improve the psychosocial learning environment of students. I will continue that work. Whether I am going to implement exactly this measure that is proposed here today, by going through all the municipalities or doing it another way, I would like to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e871	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office for the remainder of today’s meeting – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Øyvind Halleraker. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is considered unanimously elected president of the remainder of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e879	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Mosta AS shall sell a part of its car park, free of a minimum price, over the Internet auction, where this auction is open only to employees of Mesta AS. Is the Council of State satisfied that public property is sold in this way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e893	Most is a legal entity of its own, which is not subject to any State legislation regarding the sale of material. The values of the assets transferred from the State Road Service to Mesta at establishment are reflected in the company’s opening balance sheet. The value of the assets is included in equity to which the country to which the owner makes a return claim. The company has the same commercial operating requirements as private operators in the market. It will be up to the company how they choose to dispose of their material. I trust Mesta will handle the sale of the company's car park in an appropriate way. However, I can inform you that approx. 30 of Mesta's cars and pickups have been for sale in the open market for more than six months. This is part of a natural replacement plan for the sale/replacement of equipment that has exceeded a business lifetime. The cars have no book value. As a result of the fact that the market has shown no interest in the cars, Mesta wanted to conduct an auction among the employees as a last attempt to get them sold. Most have now cancelled the auction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e904	I think it's a little strange that every time I ask questions about the operation in Mesta, the council comes with the same lesson, that it's a separate company, that has the same demands for returns as other companies. I have previously had questions about the disposal of materials and equipment for millions who stood and rusted away. That was the same answer from the Council of State. Then I had a new question about the double pay in Mesta, where the employees got to keep 66 pst. of their salary even if they started in another, well paid job. Then there was a similar response from the Council of State. She just washes her hands when it comes to Mesta. Now there's a third question about Mesta, who has an internal auction over two days, and where you have to be Mesta-employee to be allowed to live on these 30 cars. I don't know if it's the same 30 cars that the Council of State is talking about, but I've been to the Internet and I saw that these cars were reserved for the employees of Mesta. When I was on the Internet last night, this was deleted. Why can't the Council of State ensure that state companies take their materials on a regular car auction in Oslo, as other agencies do? Why is Mesta going to do as many remarkable things as they do all the time? This is an unculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e915	When the representative here points out that I give the same answer every time, that this is a company, it's because it's a company, and it's decided that it should be. There's been a great deal of excitement about it. The representative's party has also helped to support this. I guess it would be a little weird if the council would go in and make sure that 30 cars would be sold in auction, if they were presented through the Internet, or how this would happen. I believe that this is why such a company has a board of directors to govern how to behave in this market, and that we have an administration in the company to try to find the best solutions to these kinds of challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e920	I'm just getting more and more shocked. The State is obliged to maximise the dividends of a State company. Other state companies auction their materials and dispose of them normally, as other companies do. Most choose completely different methods. They sell it internally, or they leave it standing and rusting away in More and Romesdal, where there are equipment for several million dollars. They have the same returns as other private companies. Is not the Council of State concerned that the company should receive as much money as possible, so as to maximise the return of the State? Or is the Council of State completely indifferent to the rate of return?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e925	It is possible that the representative Nistad has better knowledge than I do of the condition of these cars, but according to what I understand, it is not the latest cars on the market. There have been serious problems with having them sold. As I said in my answer, they have been out for six months on the open market, and I still want to claim that it would get a little strange if I were to go in and manage how to actually dispose of these cars, when one has not managed to sell these cars in the market in six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e934	This question, from the representative Johnny Hult to the Minister of Defence, will be raised by the representative Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e937	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: «The undersigned was a guest of this year's Sniper's staff in Sandnes. A very successful event, but I think the military participation was minimal. This trend has persisted for several years. What will the Council of State do to increase military participation to an acceptable level?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e946	Defence cooperation with the Voluntary Sniper Service has long traditions. Cooperation will take place, inter alia: expressed through the Ministry of Defence's annual appropriations. For 2005, we propose to allocate 29.7 million. kr in operating aid for the Skyttervesen. In addition, we support the organiser with large crew resources at the annual National Guard Agency. The shooting power of the year in Sandnes was in that way no exception. The event was supported by between 600 and 800 soldiers and officers. The defence also facilitates military participation in the National Guard Board by supporting our own personnel through leave, cover of the starting quota and ammunition. Furthermore, cooperation has been established between the Voluntary Sniper Service and the Home Office, where youth in the Sniper Service is offered education as a sniper in the Home Office during the initial service. This measure could contribute to increased interest and participation both in the law enforcement and in the law enforcement. I would also like to stress that there were around 400 shooters from the Defense Department at the Landsschütterständet this year, and that must be considered a fairly good participation. I would also like to remind you that the Voluntary Sniper Service is voluntary. It is a voluntary organisation, and participation in events directed by a voluntary organisation is of course also based on volunteering, including for the defence staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e959	I thank the Minister of Defense for the answer, which really didn't give me so much hope that military participation would get a little bigger. That's really what I'm asking questions about. That the defense as a co-organizer is involved and helps make it a good feel, there is no doubt about it. You still have to do that, as long as it doesn't go beyond the ministry, of course. My question is: what does the Minister of Defense want to contribute, so that more people can participate in a green uniform and with an AG-3 gun under the Landsschütterstänftet? The Minister of Defence has said something about it, but I have not really received an answer to this. The basics of military education are among other things. shooting. Then you might have to be involved and motivate even more, for example. make things more comfortable. These are those who are in first-time service, which I would like first of all to be more involved under the National Guard's authority and, of course, also command. I want the Minister of Defence to say something more about that than she has so far done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e966	Now the representative Bredvold takes up one of the classes under the Landsskytterstänftet, namely AG-3 class. I understand that it is in particular AG-3 class that it is desired that the defence should be more focused on. My attitude to it is that being able to shoot is a basic skill in the Defense that is very important. The defense is training a lot on it, with different types of weapons, throughout the year. Of course, it must also be optional which classes you want to participate in the Landsschütterstänftet, whether there are AG-3 classes or some of the other classes. The National Guard's staff takes place in the middle of the summer vacation. It is, of course, done in order to have the maximum participation of all the volunteers, who will thus have the opportunity to join because it does not conflict with the job. Of course, when it comes to guardians and officers, they have summer holidays. There are also few guardians in the middle of the summer holidays. Of course, it can also explain that participation is as it is, even though I still think it is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e973	I thank you once again for your answer. I believe that being on a national shooter's staff in a military uniform and with a military weapon will show what the defense is made of, and will make the defense visible in a positive way. In these days, where the defense may have some negative signs in some areas, I certainly believe that being on the National Guard's staff in military uniform and shooting with a military weapon will help to increase interest in the Defense in a positive way. That's what we all might have a wish for. Then I want the Minister of Defence, with all his possibilities, to be involved in motivating as many people as possible, regardless of vacation or not. A lot of people are adding their vacation to a national shooter's staff. They say that there are up to 400 shooters from the Defense who are in the other classes. That's right. But they're in standard gunner uniform and they're slipping into the crowd of civilian shooters. Not many people know about it, for example. is a foe, or anyone, in the civil uniform.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e980	There is no doubt that the National Guard's staff is very positive. There is also no doubt that it has the clear support of the defence. That's why the defense, which is not a co-organizer, actually provides with watchkeeping and personnel of the order of 600-800 soldiers, just to show that we think the National Guard's staff is important. So this is a voluntary event based on a voluntary organisation. I therefore believe that what the defense is doing to motivate people to set up, pay the start-up quota, pay the ammunition, give leave and, of course, market the written inside the defense, are positive instruments. These are the instruments we are going to continue with, but of course I do not want to have any coercive measures in relation to a successful and positive voluntary arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e987	Question 8 has been dealt with earlier today, and we move on to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e993	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘In the ordinary Question Time on 10 November 2004, the Council of State said that, over the last three years, the Co-operation Government has implemented very important measures to ensure energy supply in Norway. The following day, statistics from the NVE show that the Norwegian net imports of electricity so far this year have been around 10 TWh. This is higher than the total Norwegian net imports in any previous year. In addition to this deficit, we know that relatively little new power generation is being built in the next few years. Are the Councils satisfied with security of supply?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1002	The fluctuations in electricity production in the Norwegian power supply make it impossible for us to cope without a well-organised trade with other countries. Therefore, good import potential during periods of hydropower failure is very important. Without these imports, electricity prices could be significantly higher and the power supply would generally be more exposed to precipitation failures than at present. I don't think there's any reason to worry about Norway importing power in periods of low rainfall. However, there has been little capacity growth in power generation over many years in relation to the growth of electricity consumption. I therefore see it as very important that we take advantage of the opportunities Norway has for developing a competitive and environmentally friendly energy supply. The government has done a lot to take care of the opportunities that natural resources give us for a secure energy supply. Hydropower will continue to be our dominant energy source for many years to come. I want to facilitate a continued increase in hydropower production. However, it is important to make Norwegian energy supply less dependent on hydropower. Under the new agreement concluded by the Ministry, inter alia: has done with Enova, the entity shall contribute to new, environmentally friendly energy production and energy saving equivalent to 12 TWh per year by the end of 2010. Furthermore, there is no doubt that there is a significant potential for increased gas use in Norway. A long-term strategy for increasing the use of natural gas can make an important contribution to a more flexible energy supply. The government will support the gradual construction of the natural gas market. I am pleased that the plans for a gas power plant on Kårstø are now being continued. I see this as an important contribution to the balance of power, and also an important contribution to the creation of value in Norway, and not least to the development of even more environmentally friendly gas power technologies. This also shows that the Government is working across a broad field to ensure a competitive and good energy supply in Norway. Increased capacity in Norwegian electricity production is important and a well-developed transmission system against the rest of the European electricity market is also very important. I can assure the representative that I will do my best to keep Norway as a leading energy country in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1019	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Despite the fact that the co-operation government says that very important measures have been taken to ensure energy supply in Norway, we see that the distance between supply and demand in the Norwegian and Nordic power markets is only increasing. As a result, we also see that the price level is stabilising at a higher level, which affects industry and not least most people. The government’s politically correct actions, such as unprofitable wind power projects, will in no way meet this challenge. The Progress Party has warned against this for many years. Will the Government now change its course and facilitate a significant increase in power generation, so that both industry and people can gain access to electricity at a reasonable price?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1030	I can reassure the representative that the government is going to focus on increasing energy production in the years to come. In fact, it is a broad majority in Stortinget who also agree with the Government that we should focus on a more environmentally friendly energy in the years to come. It takes the government seriously, and we're doing an incredible amount. We're a privileged nation that has an incredible amount of energy resources. There are not many countries in the world that have oil, that have gas, that have extremely much water, and that also have a lot of wind. So I think we should raise our eyes a little bit and think about what Norway can do at home, so that we get a better balance of power, and so that we can also be leading energy suppliers in the European context in the coming years. I think it's a big challenge. Therefore, the Government will facilitate the construction of more hydropower. We want to create conditions to make more use of wind. We will facilitate increased use of natural gas, and we will facilitate increased use of heat and focus on energy savings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1037	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. As I pointed out in my main question, we have never had to import so much force before, and I registered that the Council of State was not very concerned about it. But we are now absolutely not inside any dry year. Nor are we near the situation we were in two years ago, with two dry harvest months, which meant that our system was about to collapse. The government's goal of becoming a net exporter of power is probably close to the comical one when you can't even keep track of the domestic supply. Does not my Council share my concerns about security of supply, and is it not the Council of State aware that if we had experienced this year's same rainfall as two years ago, the supply in Norway would probably have collapsed?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1046	What I pointed out was that there was no cause for concern was Norway importing power during periods of low rainfall. On the other hand, I said that there are good reasons for concern that over many years we have had a small capacity increase in production. I think it's possible to have two thoughts in your head at once – both to make sure that the transfer capacity in relation to the rest of the world is large enough, so that we have the opportunity to import when it's necessary, and at the same time to make sure that we can increase production here at home. I think it is a constructive starting point for the representative to have increased production in focus, and with the good cooperation that the Government has now gained with the Advance Party in the context of the budget agreement, I can, of course, invite him to cooperate equally well in this area, given that together we can help focus on increasing energy production. Then I think we also need to be able to think more thoughts at the same time – increased use of natural gas, increased use of wind and increased use of not least hydropower development, while also focusing on energy savings in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1056	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment: ‘A sheep farmer in the EU country Sweden shot a vulnerable wolf in distress and had to pay NOK 100000 in fine. That same week, a Polish berry picker was shot by a wet shot, and the family got NOK 27 000 in compensation. Can the Council of State indicate whether similar conditions can be experienced in Norway, and what is the level of fine in this country when the wolf is shot?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1065	Nudvetering with large predators is a right that both animal owners and individuals have to defend themselves and their cattle. This indispensable right is governed by the law of the wild, § 11. The illegal killing of wolves and other predators, on the other hand, is serious environmental crime. Illegal felling of predatory game makes the management of predatory game more difficult to implement. In some situations, pests may also be unable to escape from the few populations that are already so severely degraded that there is no longer room for targeted and harm-reduction management measures. For these reasons, a broad majority on Stortinget is late this spring because environmental crime is targeting predatory game actually is going to mean a real possibility of criminal prosecution. Otherwise, I can inform the representative that today's criminal sanctions for the illegal killing of peaced animals in Norway by the law of the wild are up to two years, and under criminal law up to six years. It is up to the police and the courts to handle acts that violate Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1074	I thank you for your answer. I have not received an answer to the question. The council has not answered the question, but I register the answer and thank you for it. In this case, the Council of State says we should have the same conditions, perhaps even worse, in Norway. In Sweden, there are three Polish berry pickers on one exposed wolf. How many Polish berry pickers will there be in Norway on one wolf when there are three in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1081	Governments have had a challenge here!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1084	I would like to tell the representative Bastesen that it is important to pay attention here: when there is an emergency situation, one must of course have the possibility to do what is necessary. That's the first thing I said in my answer. If an emergency situation occurs, it is a right that individuals have; it is a completely undisputed one right in the emergency. We must clearly distinguish between emergency situations and what we have experienced from the illegal shooting of predators. I would say that is serious environmental crime. These situations need to be distinguished. Of course, when there is an emergency, it is right under Norwegian law to deal with the situation. But doing illegal killing is something we should react to, and it also facilitates the law in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1089	I thank you again for the answer, but I have not received an answer to the question. How many Polish berry pickers are there going on killing one wolf in the Norwegian area? The wolf in Norway is exposed. I have a picture in the office that the Norwegian state is eradicating the last wolf, so we have no Norwegian wolf. We have exposed wolves in Norway. Then the question to the Minister for Environmental Protection: what is being done by the Ministry of the Environment with exposed animals, whether it be wolf or king crab in the sea? These are alien species in Norwegian fauna. What does it do?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1094	We're probably a little bit outside the question, but Councillor Hareide can answer if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1097	When it comes to the problem around the exposed wolf, it turns out that we don't have it in Norway. It's true that the tribes we have in Norway come, among other things. from Russian and Finnish areas, but they've come here in a natural way. We have a responsibility in relation to international conventions to take care of our obligations, and the Ministry of the Environment and the Government attach great importance to our doing so. When it comes to the question of the level of injury and the fines that may be imposed, I say that, in relation to the illegal killing of predators, we have strict rules, and that is what we are going to have, because this is gross environmental crime. In relation to the question that the representative Bastesen raises about emergency, I will make clear that there is of course a right. There is also a natural right in relation to it in the wild.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1107	Hopefully, I have a slightly simpler question for the Minister for the Environment: ‘Suggestions in the United Nations on 9 November show that both environmental and economic protection groups are calling for a warning against the government’s defences. The Council of State writes in letters of readers that protection provides a basis for tourism. Local communities, on the other hand, point out that this does not happen by itself. An interested rapporteur states that ‘more and more people understand the unreasonableness of the state’s protection over a low shoe without compensating for the reduced freedom of action’. Will the Council of State continue to protect with unimpaired strength, or will a serious need for local industry be addressed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1116	As an introduction, I would like to point out that theproposal is a joint call from the Environment and Business Organisations of the United Kingdom for the strengthening of the management budget for our protected areas. I can't see that the uproar is a warning of too much protection from the Government's side, as the Nations interprets the uproar. The government's protection policy has recently been under debate. The problems revolve around the pace of protection, the relationship between national parks and industrial development and the administration of protected areas. First of all, I would say that it would be very unfortunate for a chosen one to suspend the protection processes, such as this. the questioner wishes. Long-term insecurity will, in my opinion, lead to more than today's unnecessary conflicts. I would like to remind the representative that the Government has a great deal of support for its protection policy in the Stortinget. The protection plans that are implemented have always been submitted to the Stortinge in advance, either by means of groceries or the annual budgets. The government attaches great importance and importance to national parks becoming an important part of our value creation in our districts. National parks should become the hallmark of tourism more places than they do today. Protection offers opportunities for new industrial development, and here we will cooperate with the business community to maximise the potential. But it can't be that it's the country that's primarily going to do this work. Through the 2003 RNB mountain text, the Government has provided guidance on how this work can be done and on the importance of taking into account, so that the natural values that are the basis for economic development are not reduced or destroyed. Management plans are important hubs for managing the development and use of protected areas. Here the Government has a responsibility. I am bided to deploy more resources to develop such plans for several of our most used national parks and other major protection areas. For 2005, the government has strengthened the budget for the bedding by 4.5 million. kr. I am pleased that many municipalities have taken seriously the challenge of developing the economic potential of protection. Here I would like, among other things. show positive development work in the municipalities of Dovre, Saltdal and Nordreisa. In Sogn and Fjordane there is an own nature-use project where one is working on the development of about 30 sub-projects. In the north of Gudbrandsdal, municipalities, county councils and tourism companies cooperate in a pilot project to profile the region to the national park region number one in northern Europe. In all these projects, the Ministry of the Environment has provided financial support. I am sure that many more municipalities will see the potential of economic development as a result of protection. The government is also overconfident that protection and industrial development can take place at the same time, and that in these cases there is no one – or, as the representative of Korsberg suggests in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1129	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have addressed the problem of protection and economic development and the basis of the regions concerned a number of times earlier with the previous Council of State. We still feel that protection is preventing economic activity and housing throughout the country. The situation is that per cent. Today, 16 out of 23 national parks lack a management plan, and since the mountain text was adopted in June 2003, more than 20 major protected areas have been established or consulted for protection purposes. Does the Council of State think that the pace of this work is good enough, or will the Council of State ensure that the pace of economic development in these areas is continued?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1134	The representative of Korsberg addresses an important issue precisely in relation to good land management. The government has had a policy that I fully support, and that I want to continue in terms of securing protection. We've been protecting more than ever before over the years that the Co-operation Administration has been working on, and the pace has been good. It is now a challenge that we also need to take more care of the administrative work, and I also believe it is important that one does not feel that the state is just coming and protecting, and then does not follow up the protection work. That is why it is a priority, and that is why we have increased the budget in this area for 2005. It's an important job to ensure good management of the areas, and that's what we wanted to prioritise, among other things. in the 2005 draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1139	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I notice that there is a desire to protect more, but it is not actually followed up on the development of nutrition in the areas that are protected or proposed for protection. It is interesting to see that local government around, local landowners and environmental protection organisations are on the same team in getting opportunities to exploit this for commercial activities and gain entrepreneurial income in the region. What I miss is simply concrete proposals from the Council of State to get ahead with this. It's okay that there's a part of the state budget for 2005, but there's nothing that makes it visible in that state budget that you're going to get some activity. Can we expect the Council of State to come back to Stortinget with concrete measures to speed up this process in the next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1144	I am also pleased that environmental protection organisations and business organisations see the potential of the current protection work. National parks are important. Why do tourists come to our country? Yeah, that's just to let you experience the amazing nature that we have, and we're now seeing that, among other things. Getting a national park area makes areas more attractive. I've also had the pleasure of meeting local politicians from different parties who are just seeing the possibilities now, and I want to say that they see the possibilities better now than they've done before. So it's a challenge that we're forced to improve the management work, and it's going to work on it. That's why we have chosen to prioritise it in the budget, and it's something we need to focus on for years to come, to ensure that both the areas that we now have secure for protection and the new areas are well managed. I'll take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1151	We're now going back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1157	I have the following questions for our Minister of Culture and the Church: «Henrik Ibsen and, in particular, Knut Hamsun historically have a strong connection with Grimstad City. The municipality of Grimstad has therefore worked for a long time on plans for a national Ibsen-Hamsun centre in the city. However, there has been some confusion about what the Council of State really thinks about these plans. Will the Council of State explain its views on a national Ibsen-Hamsun centre in Grimstad and at the same time provide information on what kind of state funding and assistance might be relevant to such a project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1166	The plans for an Ibsen-Hamsun Centre in Grimstad were presented to the ministry at a meeting on 4 November this year. The request for state support is not received in the department, and the cases are not, of course, dealt with. The preliminary feedback I gave during the meeting was that a formal application had to be submitted for treatment. The final application should allow for alternative location in existing Grimstad building mass. When examining any application, the Ministry will obtain assessments from ABM development as the state advisory body in archival, library and museum matters, for evaluation of the project, etc. in relation to plans for other ABM centres in the region and other Ibsen-Hamsun-related projects. There are several additional arrangements that may be relevant for assessing such a project. At the municipal level, it will be natural to draw the funds that the county will receive within the new decentralised gambling fund-funded scheme for cultural housing grants. For the Ministry of Culture and the Church, the project will have to be assessed both in relation to the means of playing which the Ministry of Culture and the Church makes available to the dissemination arenas for culture and in relation to the arrangements for the addition of national cultural buildings. First, however, there must be a formal application. In this context, I note that the Ministry has already received more than 60 applications for investment grants which it has not yet been possible to give priority to within the current framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1173	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I notice, of course, the Minister of Culture's statement, which could perhaps have been a little more clarifying in relation to state co-financing. I have to make it clear that a bet at a national Ibsen-Hamsun centre in Grimstad of this magnitude and according to the plans presented, in my opinion requires significant State co-financing. I find it hard to see that the municipality alone can handle this financial promise of perhaps 100 million. So a not insignificant state co-financing is, as I see it, of great importance if Grimstad is ever to be able to realize the plans for an Ibsen-Hamsun-centre. The state councils have previously suggested, on the NRK Sørlanden, that for that part of the ABM centre, which includes the Ibsen-Hamsun Centre, it was possible with a government funding bit of up to 60 pst. The Council of States can say something about the criteria on which Grimstad will receive such a maximum aid intensity, which I understand is up to 60 pst.? It's 60 pst. Will the city of Grimstad be able to do so if they fulfil any of the criteria also mentioned by the Council of State in its statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1180	Now Grimstad had the city council to deal with this matter yesterday, where the representative's party voted against the entire project. But there are still several numbers for the project in the City Council, and they have set up a group to continue working on different models. What I told you was that in the model that we got information about, they had a library built, and it took quite a lot of the costs of the entire project. Library is a municipal task, and in the support schemes we have, the library part cannot be covered. The library has to be cleaned up first, and then a few can get up to 60 pst. on the rest of the part. Then we're going to have an assessment together with ABM development to look at this. I can't be specific on the criteria, but there are several buildings that have received up to 60 pst, because they also have a national interest. It is clear that having a place where both Hamsun and Ibsen are visible is of national interest, and one will have a great chance of getting the maximum number of things going on at the Hamsun-Ibsen bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1189	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer and of course take note of it. But when I'm going to get into the very background and core of the matter, at least I can't fail to add that I personally believe that few places can be more well-chosen than just Grimstad when it comes to locating such a national Ibsen-Hamsun centre. The fact that two of the world’s most famous and prominent authors both have such a concrete and significant connection to one city in Norway should make Grimstad an absolute current location option for such a national Ibsen-Hamsun centre. But such a commitment, of course, requires a clarification of what the state can contribute to, and what the state believes about the plans. Do I perceive the councils there that she thinks the plans in Grimstad are exciting and good, and that she will encourage the local politicians in Grimstad to continue their efforts to realize these plans? And will the Council of State follow the further progress in this matter – because it is not that she believes that Grimstad municipality should scrape the further work on these plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1196	No, in no way, I don't support the Progress Party's group in Grimstad. I think they should continue to work on this project. Now there are enough cities and places in Norway that want to profile both Hamsun and Ibsen. I'm not going to name all the places, but we have a part of them. But the combination of them is probably only in Grimstad, as the representative mentions. So I have asked them to send an application, and then we'll look at him. I also know about some other buildings in Grimstad that might be as good for these markings as a very, gigantic new building at port. In any case, the library part must be kept outside. So we're going to have a further dialogue, and we've said that we're asking them to send an application, and we're going to go through it. But first the job has to be done locally, and then we can get into the next round and evaluate what they've come up with locally. We can then help them in relation to issues related to the economy and other important things, before local politicians finally decide what they want to go in for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-17.ana.ud522e1213	There is no record.
