ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e69	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Ragna Flotve, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e78	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and will consider it adopted. The President will propose Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Ranveig Frøiland. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Ranveig Frøiland are considered unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e85	On behalf of Carl I. Hagen, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to propose a temporary suspension of the implementation of the monopoly on the operation of vending machines, in order to secure the revenues of the non-governmental organisations until the ESA has concluded the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e90	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e93	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Vaksdal, Øyvind Korsberg, Per Sandberg, Lodve Solholm and myself, I will present proposals for compensation for floods.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e98	The representative of Inger S. Enger will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e101	On behalf of Åslaug Haga and myself, I would like to propose to introduce a temporary stop in the safeguard decision until one has carried out an impact assessment of the protection policy with a focus on how this affects housing and nutrition development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e107	The representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e110	On behalf of Sigrun Eng, Sylvia Brustad, Signe Øye and myself, I would like to make proposals to keep up the rail supply Oslo – Stockholm and Oslo – Gothenburg – Copenhagen at the current level and to make proposals for sustainable operation in a cooperation between Norway and Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e115	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e127	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e134	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough presentation. WTO negotiations are important for Norway. A small open economy country is served by clear driving rules in the international economy. Negotiations are particularly important for developing countries, because they serve these countries in the fight against poverty. Fortunately, the Geneva meeting produced a different result from that held in Cancún just over a year ago. At that time the meeting collapsed because tone-setting developing countries such as Brazil and India beat the table and said that the poor countries will no longer find themselves opening up their markets to the industrial products and services of the rich countries, while their agricultural products are not only excluded from high customs duties and large internal subsidies, but they are also exposed to the fact that the rich countries provide direct aid to exports of their agricultural products. When the Swedish Foreign Affairs Committee visited East Africa last autumn, we saw the results. In some cases, countries such as Uganda and Kenya are not even able to sell their own agricultural products on their own domestic market because the rich countries dump their goods there. So you have to ask yourself, how are you going to develop under these conditions? The melody of the tone-provoking progressive developing countries is now that they no longer want to thank the alms and mild gifts of the rich’s table in the form of aid. They want justice. There must therefore be a change in world trade. The alternative to a result of this round of WTO negotiations, the Doha Round, is that the horrific injustice continues. Moreover, we will have an increasing number of bilateral agreements and regional trade agreements that will be to the detriment of the smaller countries and poor countries and also undermine the multilateral trading system. This round of negotiations is also called the development round and is therefore primarily concerned with safeguarding the interests of developing countries. The overall idea behind the Doha Round, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also said in his statement, is that developed countries should take on more commitments than developing countries. It is therefore very important that developing countries, in addition to accessing their products on the markets of rich countries, are given the opportunity to protect their own agriculture by not opening their home markets to some products that are particularly important for their development. The government has full support from a majority in Stortinget for its acceptance of the outcome of the negotiations in Geneva. This was reflected in the Storting's treatment of the Globalisation Communication in winter. The position of the Foreign Affairs Committee shall be as follows: ‘All forms of export subsidies and dumping of food from rich countries to developing countries contribute to the destruction of the domestic market of farmers in the south and access to the world market of developing countries. Such aid schemes should therefore cease. In addition, in the view of the majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Central Party, rich countries must make reductions in the distortive internal support.» In my view, this is one of the keys to achieving globalisation for all. In order to ensure that the interests of developing countries in the WTO are safeguarded, it is also important to pursue the issue of transparency both within and outside the organisation and of further strengthening the developing countries in the negotiations themselves, as the Foreign Affairs Committee also pointed out in the context of the globalisation communication. Norway could of course have sided with the agreement reached in Geneva. But it would have had a huge cost for us, and that would therefore, in my opinion, be just a theoretical possibility. After all, we have a great deal of offensive interests in relation to our industry and in particular in relation to market access for our fish, which can only be achieved by means of WTO legislation. In addition, a Norwegian veto had strengthened the attitude of the world that rich Norway is only out to care for its own special interests and compensate for this with mild gifts in the form of assistance to the poor. On the other hand, we should not underestimate the challenge of Norwegian farmers and we as a nation are given as a result of a new WTO legislation. We're talking here about large values that can't just be counted in money. Norwegian farmers, in addition to producing food, are incredibly important in maintaining a cultural landscape to which the Nordics have attached their identity. These are two sides of the same thing. The cultural landscape depends on food production. It cannot be maintained only on tourism and dispersal. In my opinion, it is important that we now not just hang out with our heads and complain about what is happening in the WTO. This is an irreversible process. We should therefore be able to build consensus on a new agricultural policy based on the new realities. The worst thing we can do now is underestimate the challenges we face in relation to agriculture, push them aside and let the farmers take all the burdens by entering into a new trade code that we cannot stand by. Therefore, society as a whole must be able to bear the burden that it really will be for agriculture. In this context, I have suggested that we should have a public commission, consisting of all the interests involved and the political parties, which, first of all, can work to reach agreement on what new WTO rules actually mean, when they come, so that this does not just become the subject of party political shivering. Secondly, the Commission should have as its mandate to draw up how we can transform support for agriculture within the new rules and thus make them offensive, which I believe is also possible. I think it's possible if we just put our faith in that everything can be the way it is. There are long traditions in Norway to build consensus when facing major national challenges. In my opinion, maintaining Norwegian agriculture within a new WTO legislation is such a national challenge. The Minister for Foreign Affairs briefly mentioned the negotiations on the WTO services agreement, GATS. Since questions have been raised from a number of quarters about whether these actually involve the privatisation of fundamental rights, I would just like to recall the unanimous observation of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the position on the globalisation message, which is our starting point, namely that we are concerned that there are no requirements undermining effective and good services in key sectors such as education, health, energy and water supply. The Committee takes the view that, in the context of international agreements, national authorities will continue to determine whether the services in such areas are public or private. General trade has been one of the main drivers of change in the world. Trade between cities in northern Italy was the basis for renaissance in Europe. The economic base created by trade produced new technologies and new science, and a cultural flowering that laid the foundation for modern Europe. New ideas formed about the world, about society and the relationship between citizens and rulers. It was the beginning of the democratization and renewal of Europe that started with the flourishing trade that took place in northern Italy, thus paving the way for renaissance. Today, trade is lifting millions of Chinese out of poverty. We must be able to foresee that this development will change the political and economic conditions of the world's largest country. What is now emerging in the WTO will fundamentally change the world – in short and well by giving developing countries greater economic power by selling their goods on foreign markets. This will also give them greater political power. Changes in the rules of the world trade will thus fundamentally change the world. Reforms in the UN will force themselves, including: by changing the composition of the Security Council. The countries of the south will have to have greater influence in the World Bank and in the IMF, precisely because they gain greater economic and political power. Those who will try to oppose such a development will soon discover that the historical processes that trade creates are not easy to stop. That's why what's happening in the WTO now, what's going to change the international community in a completely fundamental way, and much more than the current events that we read about in the media every single day. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has spent so much time travelling around many countries and trying to influence and care for Norwegian interests, but also show interest in this in-depth process. I think the whole Stortinget wishes to welcome that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e177	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e180	I listened with great interest to Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland's contributions and have nothing to object to any of his analyses, which I think are very accurate, and which, as far as I could hear, was entirely in line with the analysis that the Minister of Foreign Affairs made in his statement to the Stortinget. I am pleased that there is so much agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party on this point, and, like Mr. Jagland, it is significant that there is a broadest possible national consensus on difficult conversion processes. But I noticed at the end of the speech that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee used the term ‘those who will try to oppose such a development’. We all know that there are a lot of forces, but here in the house there are especially two parties that have marked it, namely the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. So I don't know how Iland intends to build consensus with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e185	We'll hear about that when I land gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e188	This is such a profound and profound process, which creates so great a change that I don't see it as unnatural that there are a lot of different views about it. Some object; others object; others object to what is happening. I think that's quite positive. If everyone agreed on everything, it wouldn't be good either, for such historical processes must be driven through a dynamic of contradictions. I have noticed that SV has a lot of input that is worth discussing. That is what we had in connection with the communication on globalisation. It is clear that the Central Party takes care of interests here at home in Norway, as I have also mentioned, which are quite legitimate. It's not so unnatural that the Center Party, like the party it is, does just that. However, the point now must be to try to bring all of these together in the interests of Norwegian interests after a new WTO legislation has been created. I have to remind you that it was Berge Furre who led the previous big agricultural commission, and he came from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e193	I am pleased that the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee states that national authorities are responsible for determining whether services should be public or private. We know it's in the GATS agreement. Although the Foreign Minister says it's a little parked until next year, we know that there are many possibilities to privatize things that we actually think belong to the public. When one has said that there are national authorities that are going to decide, how are we going to get control of it? Does the representative, Mr Jagland, agree that we must have full openness about Norwegian positions both in relation to Norwegian requirements and to Norway's requirements, and in relation to the supply provided by Norway to other countries, that, even if there are negotiations, it should be possible to be as open as possible about the requirements that are being imposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e200	Yes, that's absolutely necessary, and I think it will. I don't think there's any danger that things will be kept secret about these basic questions, because this is already a big debate about. And that's also a good example of what I said in the first place, that it's okay that we have different parties that keep each other a little bit in their ears and watch what happens, so that we can respect the principles that we're all able to observe. But I want to say that no matter what kind of legislation you come up with, it will still be so that national authorities decide a lot. That is what kind of majority in national policy will be crucial. For example, the EEA Agreement: new framework conditions for public enterprises – which, of course, can be used to privatise heavily. But if the majority is of a different opinion, you don't have to do that. That's probably how it's going to be with the GATS. You want to create a framework, and it will be very much up to the political majority you have within each country, to decide in what direction service production will go, public or private.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e205	The Central Party considers that the chairman’s proposal for a Norwegian Agriculture Commission is interesting. We have made a proposal in Stortinget that has a slightly different device, but I see no reason why we should not manage to reach an agreement on what this should be. Let me ask the representative Igland what he said, that agriculture contributes values far beyond producing food. Agriculture is important for housing, agriculture is important for cultural landscapes, of which the representative was concerned. My question to the representative, Mr Jagland, is whether, on that basis, he sees that we should have a different trade legislation for trade in food, agricultural products, and other goods, industrial products. I believe that it will be a natural consequence of what he says, that agriculture, the production of food, represents added value.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e212	It may not be right to say that there are different trade rules. What is well in the cards is that there is still the possibility to support under national agriculture by providing support schemes that are placed in so-called green and blue boxes. It is not that food production is now completely liberalised and that food production is fully aligned with the production of any other product. In addition, it is – as I think is very positive – that developing countries have a certain opportunity to protect their own food production in important areas. What is there for the time being, in principle, is not that food production is seen as any other commodity. The point is that we cannot have the trade-distorting situation we have today that undermines the food production of developing countries. At the same time, efforts are being made to ensure that there is indeed agricultural production in the rich countries. You can't completely undermine it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e222	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e225	The decision of 31 July of the General Council of the WTO, which adopted the framework for further negotiations, was a significant breakthrough. The background to this was that it contributed to providing credibility to an international trading system that is still based on multilateralism. This is particularly important for small countries with open economies, as is the case for Norway. A breakdown in the negotiations would, in all likelihood, mean a severe setback for the WTO and a subsequent bilateralisation of the world economy. For Norway, strong international institutions that are both legitimate and effective are of great importance. In this way, the law of the strongest is avoided in the international political economy. A breakdown in these negotiations would also represent a major challenge for the positive aspects of globalisation. In the course of the Great Britain's treatment of the March communication of globalisation this year, a unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee stated that: ‘The age of globalisation is a world of opportunities, not limitations. The challenge will be to enable individuals to realise their abilities to the greatest extent possible, so that they can take full advantage of the opportunities offered by globalisation". This is particularly important for people in the Third World. I want to remind you that the Doha Round is called the development round. The breakthrough that has now been achieved is positive, although it will obviously also pose challenges for Norway. The framework contains important guidelines for the further negotiations on agriculture and market access for industrial products and fish. It is important for Norway, and it is important for developing countries. If we are to be able to lift poor people out of the spiral of poverty, there is a need for a strong partnership between the countries of the north and the south. As the rapporteur for the Government's development message, I would like to stress that the message is the basis for such a partnership approach. Here, developments are also linked to fundamental human rights. With regard to the Global Partnership for Development, I would like to remind you that this includes the global political-economic regimes for trade, debt and investment. It is a major obstacle to the development of poor countries that they are not sufficiently integrated into the world economy. Developing countries therefore need more, but also better, globalisation. This includes, inter alia: developing countries need an increased degree of influence in the global institutions, such as the WTO, the World Bank and the IMF. The rapid conclusion of the Doha Round is therefore a necessary, but also not sufficient, condition for developing countries to be better integrated into the world economy. In addition, these countries need a stable international framework for investment and for industrial development. International debt swaps are also an essential part of this. The aim must be to create productive activities in the poorest countries – activities that can provide people with work and income, activities that can create resources for public services and infrastructure. In my view, Norway has a significant responsibility for establishing a credible partnership between the countries of the north and the south. This responsibility is closely linked to the fact that the fourth consecutive year of the United Nations Development Programme has designated Norway as the world’s best country to live in. At the same time, statistics produced by the Centre for Global Development show that Norway is only in the middle of the tree of OECD countries in terms of developmental friendliness. These statistics show that the ranking of trade and the environment in particular contributed to the withdrawal of Norway from the list. In particular, the trade policy related to trade in agricultural products negatively affected Norway. We must therefore recognise that the current Doha Round will mean that Norway and other rich countries will have to make changes in their agricultural policy. This includes, inter alia: a twist, as is known, from production dependent to production-independent aid. There are loud critics of the WTO both out there and here at home. What the critics of the WTO at home have not come to terms with is the issue of Norway that the 147th and the last country should have overturned the negotiations. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out in his speech last Tuesday, this was, of course, the seventh and last issue. We must also take on board the fact that developing countries are becoming increasingly active in the WTO. As underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the summer’s decision would not have been possible without this active involvement of individual countries and groups of developing countries. Both the so-called G20 group, the African group, the MUL group and the African cotton-producing group have contributed strongly in the last year. This is positive – and has been necessary to achieve the results that have actually been achieved. Norway has significant offensive interests related to the so-called GATS negotiations. As you know, this trade deals with the service sector. There are still major obstacles here, and a negotiation break in this area will have significant positive effects on the Norwegian economy. For Norway, this includes, inter alia: major industries such as shipping and energy. Finally, let me point out the criticism that has been raised by the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in relation to the WTO. The central party believes that Norway is the most closed country in the Nordic region in terms of the WTO. The majority seems to be the only parliament in the Nordic region that is not given access to demands and offers in the ongoing negotiations on the GATS. According to the Central Party, the government shall keep secret the requirements we impose on developing countries and the sectors which the Government will open to liberalisation and privatisation. To this end, Norway has worked for greater openness in the WTO. Norway has proposed several measures to improve the understanding of the activities of civil society in the WTO. Here, however, we must note that we are relatively alone. In addition, following the 1999 Seattle Ministerial Conference, the need for more transparency was addressed both internally and externally as a priority issue in the Governing Council under the direction of the Ambassador of Norway. I would also like to highlight the Government's efforts in terms of transparency, and point out that the Government has close contact with civil society and business on WTO issues. This is done through a series of advisory committees with representatives of the business and organisational community. In the context of previous WTO ministerial meetings, non-governmental organisations have been represented in the official Norwegian delegation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also took the initiative to include representatives from the Stortinget in the delegation to the Cancún Ministerial Conference. For both the Central Party and the Socialist Left, it seems that they both forget that this WTO round was called the development round, where reforms of the international trade system will help to establish a genuine partnership between the North and South countries. In this context, I would also refer to the Doha Ministerial Declaration in the autumn of 2001, where Article 2 of the Declaration places the needs and interests of developing countries at the centre of the WTO work programme until 2005. The WTO must continue its efforts to ensure that developing countries, and in particular the least developed countries, can secure part of the growth of international trade that is proportionate to the needs of their economic development. Norway still has a driving role here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e258	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e261	I have a question for the Right Representative on Agriculture. We can all say that safe food is a good thing in itself. Trade in food is to the extent not good in itself, and 10 pst. of food crossing national borders; a little more may do so in the future. But we should also look at the consequences of liberalisation for the poorest countries. This means that in a low-cost country one can't even produce on its own home market. Nord-Trøndelag Right has participated in a campaign in Trøndelag entitled 'Every country has the right to produce food'. Is it possible for the Right to be involved in a system that introduces a distinction between aid for own consumption and aid for exported products?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e270	I don't know if I want to fully agree with the representative Jacobsen on what he said about safe food is important, but that trade in food should be irrelevant. I guess for a number of the countries we're thinking about here, in the south, building up a trade in food, agricultural products, in both local and regional contexts, is a prerequisite for building up a trade at all. However, I can follow Mr Jacobsen a step on the way, namely that our actions through the WTO and what will now result from the negotiations there should also have as an important objective the primary aim of which is to ensure that these countries are protected to build up their local and regional markets as a prerequisite for their international participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e277	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e280	The party of progress feels that it is a pleasure that this was a result in Geneva. What happened in Cancún was a useful experience for many and will hopefully help to avoid negotiating rounds in the future where the level of ambition is not in line with the wishes of the majority of members. We believe it is acceptable and reasonable that three out of four of the so-called Singapore themes were removed for this round of negotiations. It will help to focus on fewer questions and hopefully reach further in them. Before I go into the content of the Doha Round, I will link some comments to the negotiation process itself. We have been several parties and representatives who have called for as much transparency as possible about WTO work. I have also experienced that the government from being very closed has opened something up. And in front of Cancún and Cancún, where, among others, I felt that the government really took the signals about transparency seriously. But the experience of the summer meeting in Geneva in this area is not as good. The Geneva meeting was not initially a ministerial meeting, but in many ways it was. Then it's unfortunate that you couldn't include, for example. The size and various organisations of the process on the Norwegian side. Although the government is formally and effectively responsible for the negotiations, I believe that it would have served to include relevant actors in the process. Norway is making an effort to contribute to greater transparency and democracy in the WTO as a whole. Then we must also seek to achieve this in the best possible way at home. As regards the substance in the Doha Round, it is clear that much is involved in agriculture. Most developing countries have clear interests in liberalising the agricultural sector. It is therefore gratifying that the Geneva meeting gave some leadership in this way. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this presents some challenges for Norway. I think we've had this for a few years. Cancún gave a postponement, but everything indicates that a new WTO agreement will be in place within a period of one to two years. In this way, the Government can continue to fight actively and hard to ensure that we can maintain the highest rates of customs duties on sensitive agricultural products and actively prevent the sale of many foreign products in Norway, or we could take some steps to counteract the possible sudden changes that may occur in a relatively short period of time. There is also a question here about the overall best for Norway, including consumers and traders affected by, for example. border trade. The Progress Party believes it would be a better use of resources, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs is around talking about the WTO, whether he concentrated more on what our offensive interests are in the field of industrial goods than fighting against the wall in the field of agriculture. I also believe that although there is in no way a unique position Norway is in, we would have done well to be more principal defenders of breaking down trade barriers and customs, rather than defending such instruments. Now it can rightly be argued that Norwegian agricultural policy is very little harmful to developing countries. It is absolutely right that there are other actors, such as the EU and the United States, who have to take on a much greater responsibility. But I believe this also has something to do with being able to go ahead and show the way. If one of the richest countries in the world can't go ahead and say, well, here we're going to put one of our jaws aside, then who's going to do that? We should have every opportunity to take action to enable those most likely to be hit by a future WTO agreement in Norway to convert properly. If we could take any such action, I think we would get a better negotiating position. It would be easier to defend against the outside world, and we would make our little contribution to the whole process moving in a positive direction. Now there's a situation in many sensitive areas where everyone holds the cards close to the chest and no one will give anything until they absolutely have to. This is also not good for what we want for openness and progress in the process. Finally, in its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that our aim must be to contribute to a total solution that is best suited to the overall interests of Norway. It's not hard to join. But from the point of view of the Progress Party, it is important to point out that we may have a little disagreement in where our interests lie, and then it is understandable that our reasoning goes in a slightly different direction. Nevertheless, we are going to stop to the full, and find hope, the last sentence that ends with Norway not getting in the way of solutions that can bring the Doha Round safely into port. Let's sincerely hope that's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e299	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e302	It is well known that development is best done if one has a reasonable balance between being allowed to build behind customs walls and being allowed to release when appropriate to the national economy. Vallersnes from Right said a little ago that one clearly sees the needs of developing countries in agriculture in order to protect both their own agricultural production and, I also assume, further processing plants. Does the Progress Party see that there can be opportunities here when it comes to trade in industrial products? Can the Progress Party e.g. Will we signal to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norwegian authorities are actually working to enable developing countries to use the same industrial policy instruments that Norway itself used when developing its own industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e311	I think it is important that we listen to the needs and desires of developing countries, and I will not, on a principle basis, reject any approach where we can look at differentiated practices in relation to developing countries, but I am afraid that some developing countries are using such an opportunity to maintain old structures and systems that they are not served with. I fully agree with the representative that liberalisation must also be able to proceed gradually and in a way that developing countries serve. Too big and sudden upheavals are necessarily not of the good. But then it has to be a goal that you move in the right direction and get into a good track. So I'd like to discuss how long such a development will take, how and within what framework, so that you don't accidentally get hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e318	No one else has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e322	First of all, I would like to say, not least because it may come to the right later in the article, that the Government and the Foreign Minister should be praised for being more attentive to what one has been in previous distributions, I think. I thought that dialogue with voluntary organisations as well as with the Storting, which I thought was a bit more important. But from SV's point of view, I want to make the most concrete input into the Foreign Minister's statement, not least because I believe it pays to be concrete here, because it is now possible for the Storting to tell what Norway is going to do in the negotiations that are coming. If we get things here now, we can try it out later. When it comes to agriculture, I'm going to call on the Government to highlight the system we have for market regulation in Norway, as well as what comes out in the distribution. I see, and respect, that the Foreign Minister has traveled around and explained well what is Norwegian position and Norwegian positions. But when it comes to market regulation, both Europe, the United States and many other exporting countries can learn from Norway, for Norwegian farmers have to pay from their own wallet for overproduction. Because when we talk about export subsidiars, there's only one thing that matters, and that's overproduction, that's a result of overproduction. Here we have a lot to learn away. In the interaction with private business and the state, one through market regulation mechanisms has been able to overcome the biggest problem, namely overproduction. I thought one could market it even more. Norwegian farmers and Norwegian authorities should actually be proud that one has managed to make such good arrangements. We have e.g. Norwegian agriculture has also seen a ceiling on the use of GMOs. One has set 0.99 as a clear maximum level for incorporation into feed. One has managed to be completely anti-hormonal. The European Union can do that too. They use hormone injection in milk production, which one uses every day in the United States. So one when certain standards, and those are these standards that I believe can challenge the rest of the world too. Then we have a challenge for Norwegian agriculture. It concerns fertiliser use, the use of spraying agents. I also thought that we sometimes have such a large and intensive production that it also goes beyond animal ethics in certain cases, so here also Norwegian agriculture has many challenges. But the sum of all these problems is what creates overproduction. And the worst part is that here we can really talk about taxpayers' money, because first the consumer pays the product in the store, he pays it over the tax bill in the form of internal trade distorting supplements that are paid over the state budget, and then he pays it a third time when a person pays export subsidies. This is the most unprofitable thing in the Western world. We know that this began in part in Europe, because it was a compensation for agriculture because of the advantages that the Coal and Steel Union gave to industry. But here we have to dare to take a given. We have met through the Foreign Affairs Committee with all the countries that have the Presidency. When we start talking to them, no one dares touch this. We have partly got recipes in Norway, because Norwegian farmers are alive. They go down when it comes to animal numbers, they take animals out of production, etc., when they see that it goes against overproduction, because it's the very ones that get sweat on their wallet. The country is not helping them. When it comes to export subsidians, I do not – I hope the Foreign Minister will follow this up internationally – that we will have a date fixing, that we will be careful that it is not just being tricked into a green box. We can fool ourselves in Norway too if we say that now we're getting everything in a green box, and then everything is very good and we've got an environmentally friendly agriculture, and everybody says hi and ha. But as long as we don't take away overproduction, we haven't come a step further. We've only fooled ourselves. So once again: NOTE from this with the green box! But there's also an embedded dilemma in Norway, because if we're going to get everything into a green box, the farmers will say that it's not a challenge to be a farmer anymore. Then it becomes almost a gambling farm. So there is a balance – I had hoped that the Minister of Agriculture would be here today – both when it is necessary to change Norwegian policy internally and to put these requirements out. Because overproduction and state-aided overproduction are the major problem in this area. If we solve this with overproduction, which is then dumped in the third world, we have come very far, I believe, in relation to the third-world country. Firstly, they will be better placed on the home market. A problem is that the world market price of food, which is not real, will rise, of course. But it will make it easier for them to compete on their own home market. We may have a situation where even Norwegian production of agricultural products in some cases – at least on a special product – can compete internationally. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs says it's hard to find alliances, I don't think he'll look so dark on it. If we can stand firm on this with export subsidiars and manage to fix it, we're going to hold on to the old alliance with the G10, but also look at alliances with developing countries. The main element here is to distinguish between export production and domestic consumption. There I thought Norway should dare to stand even harder on. And if there's something developing countries understand, then it's that one gets the right to, for example. Mozambique and other countries, producing for own consumption, at least some basic goods, so-called sensitive goods. Then we've come a long way in a dialogue. And then I hear everyone talking about sensitive goods, but no one dares to name them. What are these goods? Both developing countries and not least Norway are talking about sensitive goods, but no one dares to take up that debate. It is the first challenge that should go to Norwegian agriculture. What are we going to get rid of? We know there's production in Norway that really shouldn't be there. But we've cost ourselves to have these productions, and there are productions that don't build on resilient resources that exist in Norway. I will mention such a production — then I get the choice of agriculture — simply the tomato production, which builds on the fact that we have access to energy, etc. We're going to have to take these statements. And then we're going to have to ask developing countries directly what it is that's important to them. We know that when it comes to so-called temporary product like bananas, coffee, fruit, they will never have trouble competing. There is once again overproduction a problem – and again, perhaps the biggest problem, namely that we do not accept a certain minimum price for these commodities. If these countries supported it, I believe that we in Norway have good contact in developing countries. So a little bit about GATS. I believe that Norway must work to clarify the GATS agreement when it comes to public services and well-being, so that it is even clearer that all countries should be able to organise such services freely, without any call for competition. Here's some privatisation that's rolling. We know that in very many countries a real public sector has not even been built. As Vallersnes mentioned when it comes to the development message, we're dealing with this too, because we're clearly thinking that it's going to be a public sector. But we don't have to liberalize so hard, demand privatisation, that they don't even have time to build a public sector, while on the aid side we ask him. Norway must work to ensure that, in the negotiations for a new GATS service agreement, we do not contribute to the privatisation of sectors such as health and education. I would like, even if this is not an EU debate, to show a little to an initiative that has come from the EU, from Lamy. But in any case, the Commission proposes to grant trade preferences to developing countries that meet certain standards. It is on labour standards, it is on ratification of the Cartagena Protocol, on the Kyoto Protocol, etc. So one goes into this. One says that labour standards – five, six standards – give preference to up to several thousand products into the EU, i.e. a new development policy in the EU. One politicises this with commerce. It's going to be a premonition of good behavior. We know that when it comes to labour standards, this can be a but, if you say OK, only one gets good work standards, we get liberalisation, and there can be more liberalisation than the actual labour standards. We see it from China, not least – Brio games that exist in all Norwegian worlds – and then we know that the workers who work under completely different conditions than we would have accepted. At least I found it a positive move that comes from the EU. politicising trade policy in this way can also be something in relation to Norwegian initiatives. We know that if labour standards are followed, wages will rise, and competition will in a way become fairer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e348	As a small country with a very open economy, Norway has a particular interest in an open world trade which is governed as far as possible by rules and laws that reduce the ability of large countries and trading blocs to implement power policies. There has therefore been no doubt that Norway needs to actively support the WTO and do what we can to get solutions that you can agree on. The framework agreed in Geneva contains positive changes that industrial and fish producers in Norway would enjoy. However, although the WTO has largely positive consequences for Norway, from the beginning it has been known that the Doha Round would also have negative consequences for Norway. This is particularly true of agriculture. Because even though Norway is a trade nation, we are also obliged to pursue a policy that guarantees Norwegian women, men and children the right to food, today, in ten years' time, in fifty years' time, and in all circumstances. If we are to live up to this, we must also have safe, healthy and sustainable food production in this country in the future. Norwegian agriculture is already under heavy pressure and the use rate is strongly reduced. Although the final outcome of the WTO negotiations is far from clear, it is certain that the result will have a very significant impact on our agriculture. The outcome will be something that will be crucial if we are to have living settlements, a cultural landscape as we are used to seeing it, and an agriculture that takes care of our food security, a food security that can provide enough, good and clean food. But we've taken an important value choice. We're going to have agriculture in Norway. That's why we shouldn't be blind to negative trends. Instead, we need to create new activity and new industrial development based on agriculture. We need a new policy for a new time. We need a entrepreneurial culture where more people have to dare to invest in self-employment. We're going to have food production, but we're also going to have other business with the farm as a starting point. There is a need to exploit specific qualities in rural, community and regional areas. We need to increase the commercialisation of research in order to create new products and therefore new jobs. Organic farming must become a spearhead in making the whole of agriculture more environmentally friendly. Weather and nature conditions in Norway are tough. One consequence of this is that few Norwegian agricultural products can compete with import products at price, but we can compete on quality. If the food is produced in a sustainable interaction with nature, the chances of maintaining our own food production are increased. I am therefore pleased that the farmers’ organisations in Norway have realised that there will be changes, and that they have generally had a constructive and positive attitude to what we can do in a new situation. Because there are also reasons for optimism when you look at the results of Geneva. The ability to protect sensitive products from excessive tariff reductions can be very important for Norwegian agriculture, even if we also have to cut a lot here. Similarly, the exemption from the ceiling on the area and animal aid for countries where it is a very large part of the total aid, as it is in Norway, provides positive opportunities for Norwegian farmers. In addition, there will continue to be opportunities to use other non-trade distortive measures, or green support. Here there is no upper roof. Increased greenwashing of Norwegian internal support can therefore be a survival strategy for Norwegian agriculture. Although much remains uncertain about the final results of the negotiations, one thing is quite clear: we need to facilitate food production in Norway in the future. At the same time, it is our duty to help people in other parts of the world to have their right to food and to development. Increased trade is a prerequisite for development. It has therefore been a fundamental premise for the current negotiations that the poorest countries are more likely to participate in the positive ringing effects of international trade. Of course, trade is not an end in itself, but it is an instrument for economic development. The strongest requirement for developing countries is just market access, especially for agricultural products, and the requirement to eliminate export subsidies and minimise agricultural subsidies. If developing countries are not to become even more dependent on aid, they must be exported. It provides opportunities to take responsibility for its own development. When the negotiations in Cancún ended with a break, it was because a group of countries in the south, with Brazil's leader Lula at the head, would not find themselves in the configuration of the western countries. What countries in the south required more than anything else is freer access to selling their goods. They want more and freer trade, not less, but they also require it to happen in a fair way. I believe that it is particularly gratifying that one of the most important breakthroughs that came to Geneva was that we now agree that export subsidies should be reduced throughout the Western world, with the aim of ensuring that these should be eliminated in the long term. Such subsidies have been very damaging to many developing countries where subsidised products from the West compete with locally produced goods. Studies show, for example: US subsidisation of cotton production between 2001 and 2002 cost Africa more than $300 billion. But in other areas too, the success of the developing countries in the framework agreed in Geneva is good. In addition to giving developing countries better market access for their goods and services, they will have more opportunities than in countries to maintain their own markets. Access to other countries’ markets has been very important through our own history, but protecting the domestic market has also been important. If the countries that are currently poor are to benefit from increased market access, they must be given the opportunity to safeguard their own markets. This is particularly important for LDCs, which would otherwise be vulnerable to international competition when trying to build up new production. It is gratifying that developing countries will in the future be given more technical assistance and opportunities to acquire greater skills and that they will have more time to implement a new agreement. It also seems to be a wise choice that three of the Singapore questions have now been put aside. Will the problems of developing countries just be eliminated if we open up the world market to them? Are exports all that is needed to create development? Of course not. Trade is not enough, and liberalist slogans such as ‘trade not Aid’ are not entirely valid. If developing countries are to benefit from greater market access, capacity building in these countries needs to be significantly increased. Today, Norway is free of customs duties for the poorest countries. But how much are we importing from these countries today? Almost nothing. Trade alone will not solve anything if there is no one to ensure that the developing country is able to build an infrastructure capable of caring for this trade. An organisation in Norway that has made sure that something happens is actually agricultural cooperation. They have a big project in Mozambique where they build infrastructure and create quality assurance systems that enable us to import the goods that the country produces. We must have a holistic thinking about development and trade where we combine increased opportunities to trade with aid that makes trade possible. If we do not participate in and build infrastructure in developing countries at the same time as liberalisation, we will probably find that opening our borders to all countries leads to the industrialised countries that will increase their exports to us. Without aid, the poorest countries will not benefit from freer trade. Developing countries rely on improved competitiveness and productivity through increased investment in new technologies and knowledge. Through the agricultural action plan for development policy presented in spring 2004, the government has increased the strategic effort for the development of agriculture in developing countries. A broad approach is being adopted, with a focus on the sustainable development of the agricultural sector as part of a broader economic activity in cooperation countries. The focus is on policy reforms, education and skills building, productivity development and further processing, the development of local markets, trade and exports, and food security. The slogan for development policy should therefore be ‘trade and AIDS’. I am therefore pleased that the Government of the Development Communication now under consideration in the Foreign Affairs Committee also emphasises that assistance and trade must be seen in the context. It is important that in further negotiations Norway tries to facilitate as broad a cooperation as possible. We need to seek cooperation with the G10 group to continue. However, it is also necessary to do what can to build alliances with developing countries with a common interest in maintaining the possibility of maintaining national agricultural production. The Foreign Minister said in his speech that he had little faith that this is a dangerous way to go. I still believe that we must not give up this yet. Norway should be able to be a bridge builder. The Foreign Minister points out that developing countries want both access to their products on the markets of rich countries and the ability to protect their own agriculture. This is probably true if one sees all developing countries as a whole, but under the group of developing countries, different countries have different focus and different requirements. It may be that the Foreign Minister is right that new alliances with developing countries will be difficult to reach, but if they succeed, it could have a very positive impact both on Norway and on the world's poorest. In the wider WTO negotiations, it is important to be able to have two thoughts in your head at once. We have a moral duty to work to get solutions that make life better for poor farmers in poor countries. At the same time, we also need a solution that provides food security for us in Norway through continued domestic food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e381	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e384	The representative Rise called Mozambique and the good project that agricultural cooperation in Norway has there. It is clear that a commitment to that project is that one does not do like the Christian People's Party in government and demands liberalisation and away with customs, because this is a profitable project, because of the customs preference that Mozambique has. Does the representative Rise see that opening up the poorest countries is even more difficult if one is to remove all customs walls?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e389	Norway is currently free of customs duties for the poorest countries, but the problem is that we import so little from these countries. I expect the representative Jacobsen and the government to agree that it is important to build an infrastructure and enable these countries to export. I think there's some of the most important new things that have come in, an international recognition that it's not enough just to facilitate export by building down customs walls. It is also very important that additional assistance efforts can be made to build up these export opportunities. What we've seen in Norway is that it's already rich countries that need to enter the markets when we have general reductions in customs duties, and therefore it's very important that we do everything we can to help the poorest. But we have full confidence that the Foreign Minister will seek to balance all these difficult considerations in the continuing WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e394	In Norway, we import about half of the food we eat, and it's a fact that we import about 65 pst. of that food from the EU. Otherwise, we also import subsidised sugar from the EU. The representative Rise is concerned that we should be able to deal more with the poorest countries. Yes, then we have to twist a lot of the imports that we have today. We must turn the imports from rich countries, from rich blocks of export subsidies, such as the EU and the United States, and into imports from the poor countries. My question to the representative Rise is: What does the Government do to help us increase exports from developing countries and not take imports from the EU and other rich countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e401	I mentioned in my speech that what was particularly gratifying at the breakthrough in Geneva was the very agreement that export subsidies should now be reduced. This has also been welcomed by the Norwegian Government. It is an objective throughout the Western world that these subsidies should be completely eliminated in the long term. Of course, it will help when we see what these subsidies meant only for the production of cotton in the United States. As a result, Africa lost $300 billion. When we see the Government's efforts to help build infrastructure and increase the opportunities for agriculture in the poorest countries to export, I think there is a very good connection here. Norwegian agriculture also needs to be prepared for a new era, and then agriculture also needs to be transformed in order to maintain living areas. As a contribution to this, it is positive that the other impacts we have received can also help Norway to continue to maintain the cultural landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e408	We have been told earlier in the debate that the Labour Party believes that public services should be defined by national governmental powers. Right has said that one should absolutely give countries the opportunity to build up behind protectionism when it comes to agriculture. The party of progress even meant that when it came to industry, one would clearly have the right to build up in the same way that Norway has done. Where does the Christian People's Party stand in this image? Is one of the exceptions that have come, or can I understand the representative Rise so that when it comes to agriculture, one might think of having special arrangements for, for example, agriculture. cooperative enterprises in Norway and in poor countries? Should a special arrangement be made in any way? Is it the new time for agriculture, or what is it like?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e415	I actually thought that I had given a kind of a picture of how I see it. It is possible that the representative Jacobsen has a clear picture of how things will work in the future in trade between rich and poor countries, and of how Norway should contribute to this. I think there are so many factors to take into account in the negotiations that are going on, that it is actually not now possible to say exactly what the outcome is going to be. But I have made it clear what is the position of the Norwegian Government, which we support. The Christian People's Party fully supports the line that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has drawn up in his statement to the Stortinget. There is the question that Bjørn Jacobsen asks, answered well, except that no one can quite say what it will be like when the negotiations are over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e420	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e424	The WTO has traditionally been marked by closed processes and a lack of transparency. Criticism against the system has been strong, and many are thought to have seen a improvement in recent years. The Geneva meeting in July of this year was a big step backwards in this way. In view of the importance of the WTO, the Central Party believes that Norway needs to take a concrete initiative to reform the system. The centre party also believes that steps need to be taken to increase transparency in Norway. In fact, I take the view that everyone in this Chamber wants good and democratically sound processes, because it is becoming increasingly obvious that the WTO's areas of agreement have consequences far into Norwegian domestic policy. We give way to governance in key domestic policy areas, such as: has a significant impact on business and housing. At the same time, we know that the agreements concluded are difficult to reverse. Norway is said, incredibly, to be the most closed country in the Nordic region in terms of the WTO. The majority is the only parliament in the Nordic region that is not given access to demands and offers in the ongoing negotiations on the GATS. The government's secret is, among other things, What requirements we impose on developing countries, what sectors of the Norway Government will open up to liberalisation and privatisation. This is unfortunate. In the opinion of the Centre Party, there is also a need to strengthen the Norwegian process of WTO negotiations. We believe that an advisory body attached to the Prime Minister's office must be set up with representatives of the political parties, trade unions and stakeholder organisations to ensure access to information, correction and the possibility of creating a debate on WTO issues. The size must be more involved in advance of WTO meetings, and there must be open debates in the Grand Duchy. The Norwegian official delegation to WTO meetings should be broadly composed, and all stakeholders should be invited to participate. The Centre Party has promoted a Document No. Eight proposals on transparency and the negotiation process. We hope that the proposal will receive broad support. It will be important for the legitimacy of both the WTO system and the processes in Norway. Agriculture was the central theme of the Geneva meeting. A framework for agriculture was adopted which the Centre Party believes will have a major impact on Norwegian agriculture. It is very regrettable that Norway had faced such a situation that it had to sign the agreement. That should have been avoided. The government has spent a lot of energy refuting that the agreement will have a significant impact on Norwegian agriculture. We are therefore very surprised that the Minister for Foreign Affairs failed to address how the Government should exploit the space it believes is in the WTO agreement from Geneva. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did not even try to make it possible for the Government to take advantage of the available space for action. There's every reason to ask the government if it's willing. Next year's budget is going in the wrong direction. We have the opportunity to stimulate agriculture, for example. through the tax system. It's not done. Rather, the draft budget imposes greater burdens on agriculture. The government must show in action that they mean something by what they say about the willingness to exploit the space for action. I challenge the Foreign Minister to clarify this. We are also amazed that the Foreign Minister does not respond to what demands the Government will make in the further negotiations towards the important Hong Kong meeting in December 2005. What national objectives has the Government defined? What strategies have been put in place to achieve the objectives? And what alliances are necessary to achieve this? Again, I challenge the Foreign Minister to clarify this. Following the assessment of the Centre Party, a new international agricultural trade policy must follow these principles: Internal support for production for own consumption must be exempt from reduction obligations.Customs rates are set in such a way that each country has a real opportunity to produce its own food.Thanks to customs rates cannot be accepted on strategic products produced by the country.Minimum mandatory imports must not be increased. On the contrary, the rules on compulsory imports should be removed.Special security mechanisms to avoid imports that destroy national markets need to be continued and extended to developing countries. Many present the outcome of Geneva as a victory for developing countries. Brazil is the alibi. But Brazil’s allies were not the poorest and poorest country in the world. Brazil, together with the EU, the United States and Australia, stood for an ultimatum in favour of the major food-exporting companies in the world's most powerful country. It is not the Norwegian farmer who is blocking the development of the poorest. When developing countries criticize the agricultural subsidies of the West, it is not the income of the Norwegian farmer they want to live on. The main problem facing developing countries is the US and EU dumping on the markets of developing countries, so that food can be sold far below the production price. It makes it hopeless for developing countries to sell their own goods both at home and outside. Norwegian farmers do not dump goods in developing countries. Here, Norway and developing countries have a common position: Subsidized exports and dumping of rich country food products in developing countries must be stopped. In fact, Norwegian farmers and farmers in developing countries are not competing. We, i.e. Norway, produce milk, meat, eggs, cereals and vegetables, while they produce coffee, tea, cocoa, sugar, tobacco, etc. And, as I've already been about, we can import more if we want. 65 pst. our food is imported from the EU, including subsidised sugar. Developing countries are a complex group of conflicting and different interests. Very many developing countries have a clear desire to protect their own food production. The majority of developing countries as a group are net importers of food. Since the entry into force of today’s WTO agreement, 16 developing countries have gone from seagoing food to net food importers. Many poor countries stress that the protection of their own production is a matter of life or death in rural areas in their country. In fact, Norway has much in common with the poorest countries that still have a weak voice in the WTO negotiations. These are countries that, like us, are net food importers. Alliances based on food sovereignty can be built, the right to decide on their own food policies, including the measures necessary to ensure their own citizens food. The WTO, in its trade policy review, states that Norway should privatise and launch more competitively. But here we have clear defensive interests. We have a well-functioning public sector. We don't have to sit in a situation where we get American states, for example. in the health sector. We believe that the Government must adapt the GATS to clear exemptions for public services. We are in line with the Foreign Minister's concern that the interests of developing countries must be safeguarded in the negotiations. There must be a red line between development policy and foreign policy. A natural consequence will then be that the Government is, first of all, open to the offensive demands made against developing countries. We must demand that the right to water, for example. ensure that water supply is withdrawn from the GATS Agreement and we must ensure that developing countries have a real opportunity to protect their own industry in a build-up phase. It is vital that we reflect on whether our offensive interests towards developing countries are of such importance that they justify the pressure for liberalisation in these countries. In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed the importance of progress in WTO negotiations. We are surprised that progress may seem to be more important than content. This suggests that we have a foreign minister who is more concerned with liberalising world trade than with caring for particular Norwegian interests. I have to ask if this can be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e484	It was a formulation in Åslaug Hagas' posts that raised a fundamental question. The formula was as follows: ‘It is very regrettable that Norway had faced such a situation that the agreement had to be signed.’ My question is: does the Central Party seriously believe that Norway should not have signed the agreement in Geneva? This would have resulted in Norway not only sitting outside the whole process, but also stopping the whole process. Does the Central Party believe that this is what Norway should have done, when we see what is actually at stake now, namely, the question of continuing a multilateral process rather than having many bilateral processes, and that there is no progress in what is actually meant by this whole Doha round, namely to do something for the benefit of developing countries? I think this is a very, very fundamental question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e494	The centre party believes exactly what I said, that it is regrettable that Norway has faced such a situation that we had to sign the agreement in Geneva. It is an agreement that has a major impact on Norwegian agriculture, and I should have seen that there had been a process towards the Geneva meeting that meant that there was no need to sign. I admit that at the time when the knife was put on the throat and had to sign or not, Norway had no choice. Then you had to sign. But what's regrettable is that you haven't done a footwork in advance so that the elections look so different when you came to Geneva.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e501	I did not get anything out of the first answer to the line with questions about what the option would be for Norway if you had not agreed to sign this agreement, but that is the case. I want to go back to Hagas' constant recitation of the inconsistency of our process. The negotiating documents are publicly available both from our general WTO negotiations and from the GATS. But, of course, we defend our negotiating tactical demands during the period we are negotiating. Now it is said that Norway has the most closed process in the Nordic region. This is not in line with the information we have been able to obtain from the other Nordic countries, which, of course, have consultation arrangements similar to ours in these contexts. It would be interesting to hear Hagas' representative concrete statement of what she is actually aiming for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e510	If we are to have the ability to have processes around the WTO negotiations that are perceived as legitimate, it is necessary that there is maximum transparency about them. It must also apply to the requirements we impose on developing countries in relation to liberalisation in the field of services. There's the situation that we don't have full insight into it. I think that would be right. Denmark has published all the requirements, and I therefore see no reason why we should not be able to lie on the corresponding line as they do. If the Minister of Foreign Affairs can handle this better, I appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e515	I believe that the answer that Åslaug Haga gave me is not elucidating enough. What she apparently thinks is that the government didn't do a good enough job of getting a good enough result in Geneva, and that therefore you had to sign something that wasn't good enough. In my opinion, it is based on a misunderstanding of the conditions of power in the world society. It seems that the Central Party believes that Norway could have moved these negotiations fundamentally in a different direction. It's possible the government could have done more – I don't know. But my picture of it is that this is such a fundamentalally heavy process that 4 million people cannot fundamentally turn around on it. Does the Center Party think that when you don't have it done, you should really stand outside the whole process? I think it's the election. Either we come along and take the consequences of it and try to influence as best we can, or – if we are not prepared to take those consequences – we have to stand outside. Is that what the Center Party means?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e522	The Central Party believes that we need an international trade regime. We need an international trade regime so that we can also mitigate some of the strongest interests in world trade. The international trade regime shall be a maritime part of Norway. The representative, Mr. Jagland, has understood what I said, quite correctly, namely that I believe that a bad job was done in advance of the negotiations in Geneva, and there was an impossible situation at the time when you were either to sign or not to sign. When you sat there with the knife on your throat, I admit that Norway, like a small country in these processes, was not able to say no. But we believe that in the process towards Geneva, things could be handled differently from the Norwegian side, so that you could sit with other alternatives on the table. Not least in this process there was uncertainty about the Norwegian involvement in the G10, which we believe was very unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e531	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e534	We hope that the last two replicants will not agree on a government strategy for the next negotiations. I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his statement, who gave a good picture of the current rounds of negotiations in the WTO and of the preliminary clarifications they are now following the Geneva meeting. I agree with the considerations expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs regarding the current WTO negotiations. It is positive that Norway has contributed constructively to relaunch WTO negotiations. There is no doubt that the agricultural negotiations are difficult and complicated. Norway, together with a fragmented country, has a strong need to ensure its own production both through support schemes and customs barriers. However, no matter what the picture of today’s debate, Norway’s agricultural production has little impact on world trade. We are net importers, and 50 pst. the food we eat in Norway is imported. Our support and our import protection are justified by a strong desire to maintain a variety of agriculture that forms our landscape and our rural areas throughout the country. At the same time, there is no doubt that developing countries need not be recipients of subsidised food from rich countries in order to develop their agriculture and export under equal conditions. It is therefore very gratifying that Norway contributed to the agreement in Geneva that export subsidies should be phased out in the long term. The World Trade Organisation is probably the most important institution in international economic relations. Decisions taken here have a significant impact on national policies. In this context, it is important that as much of the preparations for negotiations be made with transparency and participation as possible. Increased participation will also help to provide greater insight into the World Trade Organisation, thereby giving the World Trade Organisation greater legitimacy. The Left supports the basis and key principles on which the WTO is based, with common rules on trade, common sanctions and mechanisms for resolving trade conflicts. On the other hand, we are also of the opinion that the WTO process must be democratic. In particular, the organisation must be open to civil society. Negotiations must be more closely linked and the key objective must be in practice sustainable development combined with economic growth. As several countries join the WTO, the WTO may require representation of the institutional framework for world trade. The increase in the number of members has led to the majority of its members being developing countries. Their share of world trade is still small, but they are increasingly working together to integrate them into international trade. I am therefore happy, like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to note that developing countries are becoming increasingly active in the WTO. The summer’s decision would not have been possible without this active involvement of individual countries and groups of developing countries. Both the so-called G20 group, the Africa group, the MUL group and the group of African cotton-producing countries have made significant progress in the last year. This is positive, and it has been necessary to get the results you have actually achieved. What developing countries want is both access to their products on the markets of the rich countries and the possibility of protecting their own agriculture. Developing countries want to protect themselves through special schemes, including: by not opening up their domestic markets to certain products which are particularly important for their development. This is in line with the thinking behind the Doha Round: developed countries will assume greater commitments than developing countries. Finally, let me link some comments to the WTO negotiations on agriculture. It is important and necessary that the Norwegian Government pursues alliance construction and active action in the agricultural sector. For the future of Norwegian agriculture, a final result of Norwegian interests will be decisive and will support the fact that the majority of WTO member countries have opted for customs reductions to be implemented in accordance with the same principles as in the Uruguay Round. Norway has emphasised in a good way that Norway as a small player appears to be slightly disruptive to prices on the world market. The text of the Agreement in the field of market access provides for the special treatment of sensitive products, such as: dairy products and meat for Norway. We must work to ensure that as broad a range of products as possible can be characterised as sensitive products. The text from Geneva opens, inter alia: in the case of a scheme for Norway which will allow us to continue more of our area and animal aid than the proposals underpinning the Cancún negotiations. At the same time, there are no restrictions on the scope of schemes that do not affect trade, such as green support schemes. environmental aid. The government has cooperated actively with, among others: Japan, Switzerland, Iceland and South Korea in the so-called G10 Group against the proposal for a tariff ceiling. The left agrees with the Government's assessment that the leaders in the framework will give us the opportunity to take good care of Norwegian interests in these negotiations. The interests of developing countries are also well covered, providing them with a better basis for increased participation in freer world trade. At the same time, as the Foreign Minister stressed, we must contribute to an overall result that everyone can live with. There is no reason to hide that this could involve difficult balances between Norwegian priorities in the final phase of the negotiations. The globalisation of trade and the economy must include cooperation and solidarity, and the WTO can become one of our main instruments for meeting the challenges of globalisation. This is and should for the future also be a perspective we in Norway take with us in our meetings with the organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e562	In its statement on the WTO negotiations, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is moving a long way towards saying that Norway can achieve much, including in the agricultural sector, within the framework agreement recently concluded. The coastal party believes that the framework agreement has leadership that will clearly affect Norwegian agriculture. We therefore hope that this debate can lead to a demand from the Storting for how the Government will act in the further negotiations. First of all, we must be aware that the WTO negotiations are of the greatest importance to our country and to the rest of the world. It is related to the fact that the negotiations cover much more than what has traditionally been defined as trade. We also need to be aware that in some areas, individual countries can define for themselves how far they want to go in different types of trade liberalisation. We don't have to follow the current if we don't want to. We can build alliances that can have a significant influence on the final outcome of the negotiations. The Minister of Foreign Affairs gives the impression that Norway’s positions in the WTO as a whole are the best we can achieve. But the Storting must make sure that our negotiators have a clear understanding of what the elected representatives want, otherwise we can quickly end up with trade liberalisations that are like EU adaptation to confusion. Negotiations should therefore be conducted following thorough discussions in the Storting on the basis of open and written communications from the Government, and not just on the basis of statements. Norway must require greater transparency in the WTO system itself. We must not be guided by key actors such as the United States and the EU. The countries which, in the previous round, have been engaged in important parts of the negotiations will have a common interest in preventing this from happening again. The government needs to place greater emphasis on alliance building with the many developing countries that want to protect their vulnerable industries. Only in this way can we be able to accept that we also need protection in some areas, such as: agriculture. It must be possible to establish a clearer distinction between agricultural production on their own domestic market and exports. We need to understand the right of all countries to have their own food production, in the interests of preparedness, food security, landscape management and the need to reduce unnecessary transport. Nevertheless, there will be considerable scope for international trade in food. The main purpose of the negotiations should be to put an end to the dumping of export-aided agricultural products in developing countries by the rich countries. Such dumping does not drive Norway. Some requirements in the field of agriculture should be absolute. We cannot in any way accept vague wording to consider the role of a customs tariff. A global maximum level of customs duties on different agricultural products will destroy several of the Norwegian agricultural productions concerned. Norway should support the principle that farmers produce food. The proposal to link agricultural aid from active food production is seen as a step on the way to complete closure of agriculture in Norway. In the long run, it will be difficult to legitimise extensive financial support for farmers who do not have to do anything but cut grass and maintain buildings. The coastal party looks forward to better market access for fish. There is a growing need for international fishery products and limited production opportunities. Norway shall be in favour of poor countries building up and protecting their own fishing industry based on their own resources. International maritime law is an important instrument for a fairer distribution of economic resources in the world. The coastal party also looks forward to improving market access for Norwegian industrial products. However, we should have a nuanced view of the liberalisation of services. Some services, such as. international shipping, suitable for liberalisation. Other services, such as: public welfare, schools, water supply, energy, etc. – natural resources in general – is less suitable for liberalisation. In the case of services, we in Stortinget must be very careful to make demands on our dealers. The Foreign Minister’s presentation provided little concrete information about the service negotiations. It sounds good that negotiations on investment, competition and transparency in public procurement will not yet take place. But where does the border between these areas and the liberalisation of services go? This is where the elected representatives are going to be very hard on guard!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e597	As the Workers' Party has underlined, it was important and right that there was an agreement in Geneva. We must remember, although we recognise that we have some challenges, that bilateral agreements between rich, strong countries are not a dangerous way to achieve a cohesion in living conditions development in the world. With the aim of securing the interests of developing countries, the world’s richest countries need to find solutions to ensure such development. The Industry Committee was visiting Zambia in 2003. In the city of Lusaka we were at a farm where vegetables were cut and packaged. Such goods were then sent by plane to London twice per. week. The wages in Lusaka were a little bit of money, but mainly the workers took vegetables to secure food for the family. As I saw it, both production and treatment worked very well, but my question is, Where did you make the most money – in Lusaka or in London? Both the farmers and the workers are more well served that the incomes remain in Zambia, not that the rich world just wants cheap food. When representatives of trade unions are involved in such WTO processes through Norwegian Food and Drug Workers' Associations, it is very important that the development of wealth in work and profit benefits developing countries. As Thorbjørn Jagland said in his post, the agreement has consequences for us too. No country can continue, for example: subsidisation of exports, although this also has consequences. In figures, it is estimated that approx. 2 000 dairy farms in Norway may be lost if the milk currently used for Jarlsberg cheese production has to leave the market. In Finnmark, there are 112 dairy farms. I guess it illustrates the result if the milk has to leave production. In meeting both the farmers and the agricultural cooperative, they clearly demonstrate that the challenges are great. But no one is hanging with his head, no, they are going to take hold of this and want the negotiations to be predictable, not that the negotiations should not happen. It is therefore a very good way to go, as Igland has suggested, to maintain a national political commitment to reach an agreement on the reality of Norwegian agriculture and on what needs to be done. As Igland said, we want to have food production in a long-range country, where we can also take care of the cultural landscape. Our identity is linked to the landscape just because we live there. A national consensus on how to do this within the framework resulting from a WTO agreement is the way to go. Then we can also have predictable frameworks, as agriculture wants. The Minister for Foreign Affairs points to the significant problems associated with the possible introduction of maximum rates of customs duties. As this will now be decided until December 2005, it is very important that the Government continues to do a job in line with the views expressed by the Stortinge and the ambitions expressed by the Minister of Agriculture. The debate has raised concerns that there are different political opinions about both the WTO and our agriculture. The representative of Inge Wohnung is engaged in SV. I should perhaps like him to be equally concerned with the approaches taken by the representative of Mr Höglund of the Progress Party in his intervention in this debate. However, I am pleased with the Foreign Minister's statement. It is good, and it provides the basis for the Government to continue its efforts to find solutions that support both developing countries, Norwegian agriculture and trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e615	I would like to clarify why I asked to give this statement to the Storting and get this debate. It was simply because the consensus that is now on the framework for further negotiations is of great importance to Norway and of great importance to the negotiations. What I wanted was to explain the reality, but of course also ask questions about whether to base this consensus, or whether we should now say no and withdraw. It's important to have this foundation in the future. That's what's the main question. When that is clear, we will of course have to work with a lot of details on how to proceed with the negotiations, how to deal more closely with the questions that come next. This was not part of what I have now applied for. Although I realize that Åslaug Haga would like us to be there already now, we're not yet. Nor will it be possible to go into a detailed assessment of the follow-up at national level, especially in the agricultural field, simply because it is not possible to see what the practical results will be before we also have all the figures. What I need to know is, can you now accept this basis without us now starting to demand a rematch? That's the main question. I see the answer from Stortinget as reasonably clear, that you can. I fully recognise that in the outcome of Geneva, there are no ideal solutions for many of the areas. But it is true that when 147 countries come to an agreement, no one is allowed to pick the very top of the premium shelf. It is clear that it involves compromises and concessions from all countries. Therefore, it is not difficult to point to areas that could have been better from a national point of view, but there is a balance between what could have been better from a national point of view and the need to have progress, have an international trading system and move on. For Norway, this is important in order to address the offensive interests. When I stay so much with this, it is to explain why some other elements were not part of my introduction. If the base isn't ready, there's no point going on either. I see the base as ready. I believe that Jacobsen also agrees with this. His whole question was based on what to do now. Åslaug Haga also said that. You might be a little uncertain about Steinar Bastisen, but you can collect a rather unanimous connection to this. At the same time, I must say that Åslaug Hagas' attempt to turn away from the dilemmas of course does not go away. I understood that she felt that this basis had to be accepted because the government had done a poor negotiating job. Despite three challenges, Åslaug Haga, with the exception of one point, was unable to provide a single reason for this – not a single justification. Unless Åslaug Haga is able to give a reason for his position, I will add it aside as unprofessional. The fact that Åslaug Haga has previously told Stortinget that she has greater negotiating experience than the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture combined is not, for me, a sufficient justification in this regard – therefore, I ask for a concrete reason. She had one reason that was very interesting, namely that we had raised doubts about our G10 cooperation. We had a disagreement well over a year ago, in the run-up to Cancún, which I think was reasonable, because Norway had a relationship with the developing countries that we thought should have been stronger marked. Since then, we have had a very close and close relationship with the G10 countries. We have consulted them closely, and especially in Geneva, we have been close to them all along. What Åslaug Haga then has in mind, is completely incomprehensible to me. She must be challenged to say that. But what makes this even more peculiar is that the Center Party in the Globalisation Notice setting, page 10, column 2, says the following: ‘These members believe that until now, in the WTO context, Norway has formed alliances with other rich countries in the field of agriculture’. I repeat: ‘to a large extent, alliances have been formed with other rich countries in the field of agriculture’. What rich country are we talking about? These are the G10 countries. It's Japan. It's Switzerland. It is South Korea, Iceland, Israel – other countries that are members of the G10. It was the centre party that recommended us to break the bond with the G10 countries, and then Åslaug Haga today uses this as an argument that we have not done a good enough negotiating job! It's the opposite – stick the other way around! This is completely unprofessional. If I am allowed to add one thing: I noticed the question that Åslaug Haga asked at the end of her speech, where she more than insinuated that the undersigned was more concerned with the liberalisation of world trade than with Norwegian national interests. She asked the question as to whether this could be correct. Yeah, I actually think that's all reason to ask if that insinuation was right. I think, in fact, that Åslaug Haga should have answered that, so that at all she might have left it to carry out the insinuation. If I can ask Åslaug Haga for a little thing: Could she perhaps to some greater extent strive to see the difference between the ball and the man? She's obviously not able to see that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e637	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e640	I think there have been several signals that the Foreign Minister should take with him. It can be boiled down to the fact that each country has the right to build itself, and that a country simply admits the right to have some protectionism, that liberalisation does not go so far as to have no possibility of building up its own production, own further processing, etc. This is especially true for primary industries. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will ask you if you can accept this or not. But the Foreign Minister must not ignore the fact that we can come to a point later in the negotiations where the right thing for Norway would actually be to say no. Maybe we're not there right now, but it might be the situation. It may also be that other countries have that position. I want to challenge the foreign minister and ask him, does he realize that such a situation may arise? If that situation arises, I assume that the Foreign Minister will also think that Norway should say no.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e647	I remind you that in my statement I say very clearly that the Doha negotiations concern the principle of so-called'single engagement', that is, everything should be in place before the final decision is in place. I'm not hiding for a moment that we're going to have many difficult, problematic decisions. It's not like Norway's in some kind of intermediate position where we can mediate. On important issues, we are in difficult extreme positions with relatively few alliance partners. Being able to extend hands to partners other than our alliance partners and be part of giving concessions, so that they also reach results, is one of the most difficult things in this negotiating image. Obviously, things aren't in place until everything is in place. I can only confirm that is below here as well. What is the purpose of today's conversation is simply to know the basis that was laid in Geneva, is what we can work on or not. That's the central question. I understood that Jacobsen answered yes to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e654	I was accused of being more concerned with the person than the ball. It is possible I can return it to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. With regard to the process towards the adoption of the framework agreement on agriculture in Geneva in July, it was a very long process. It started a long time ago, and it's clear that Cancún was a step in this process. What happened before Cancún was also important in relation to what eventually became the final result. We must only note that in phases of this process, the Government has faltered its relationship with the G10. Yeah, you got to rope yourself back in, but it's part of this process. The reference in the globalisation message refers – without me having the text in front of me now – to the fact that, during this process, we have been concerned about the connection between Regeringen and the EU – that it has been given greater attention than you should. In this process, we have also been concerned that the Government has too little allyed with developing countries, which are largely in the same situation as us – which are net food-importing countries. We believe that things could have been handled differently at different stages of this process until the Geneva meeting and the decision there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e661	I'll give Åslaug Haga right in that she might sometimes be able to return that reply, but not today. When it comes to her reasoning, I have to say that it's getting more and more selfish. So does Åslaug Haga think that if we had been on the paper on the way up to Cancún last year, where we did not take enough account of the U.S. side, would there have been another result in Geneva? That's what Åslaug Haga said. Of course, that's not right. That's not where the problem lies. That's not the negotiation situation. The problem for Norway is that we have a position that not many countries share. That is the problem. No, I have to say that there's a way that Åslaug Haga gets out of the dilemmas, that you have to say yes or no. Of course, you can affect problems with both positions, but it's not useful to try to get away by saying that this really would have gone differently if the government had been on a paper before Cancún over a year ago. It's not near what's real. Otherwise, I have to say that, in relation to what is stated in the communication on globalisation, the EU issue is miles from what is mentioned here, so that exodus does not go either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e673	Now the foreign minister did not comment on all the recordings that came. I assume that when he didn't, there's a confirmation that he's taking along the recordings that have come here in the debate today. We called in advance, just after the Minister of Foreign Affairs came from Geneva, that we should have a settlement that would lead to consequences for developing countries and for Norwegian district policy. It has been proposed by the representative of Mr Jagland on a Commission. I thought the Minister of Agriculture should have been here today. For SV, it is important that Regeringen has at the same time a strategy for an active Norwegian district policy. It is clear that there will be changes in the WTO, but we can try to move towards an active Norwegian district policy. It is not certain that only agriculture should focus on it, there may be other districts, etc. That's what I think it's been too small in this arrangement. I also thought the Minister for Foreign Affairs could have taken with him, for example. Undheim to advertise what Norwegian farmers have actually done. He could have been even more active at it and said that Norwegian farmers have done a lot. But first of all, I want a confirmation that he takes with him the recordings that have come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e678	I can confirm that. Now that it is clear that the Stortinget believes that the foundation of Geneva can be founded, with the strengths and weaknesses it has, the question is to manage the further positions. All the recordings that come from Stortinget will be part of that process – you can say that without a doubt. I just want to add that then you have to be aware at the same time that once you have adopted a paper, there are also leaders in it. That means that the limits of rematch are clearly present. I take it for granted that both Jacobsen and I agree that we base the paper, and then we do the best we can on that basis. Then, of course, the government will come back with that. As I said in my presentation, it will go slowly for a while to come, so that there is an opportunity to work with many of the details we are facing here. And it's very important to have all the details in place here. That is why we are now facing a great deal of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e685	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e688	I note that today's debate is a little different than such debates have previously been. One takes on several repetitions both from the side of the Storting and from the Foreign Minister's statement, and no one says that there is a simple link between trade and wealth growth, or that only we are opening the borders, the developing world will experience a wealth development. After Seattle and after the NGOs' efforts both nationally and internationally to produce some facts about this, I found the debate to be at a higher level now than before, especially before Seattle. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that Norway was once again seen in Geneva, and that negotiations take place in space – whether they are green or what they are – where not everyone has access. And then one uses the fact that Brazil and India were present, as a legitimacy in relation to the fact that the foreign interests were taken care of. Someone has been inside the nation's notice on Tuesday that Norway is the most closed country to inform the populace about the content of the GATS negotiations. I'm not going to comment on anything but saying that I thought it was a great paradox to be in agreement with the representative of Höglund when this is the case. But this matter is as simple as Parliament gets the information it wants and wants. So if the Storting sends some clear-cut signals, it should take care of it. To say a little about agriculture: the main weight of developing countries is net importers of agricultural products. Recent reports show that this trend of imports is increasing. Particular countries in Latin America are likely to benefit from a sluggish import protection. However, we have to ask ourselves: who do we think would be interested in liberalising trade in food? Coffee, tea and tropical product already have little or no customs duties today. It is in these areas that most of the developing countries have their greatest potential, and there is no conflict with Norwegian production here. For the products we produce in Norway, u-land has 10 pst. of the world market. So there are others who want to focus on liberalisation. Then we're going to ask ourselves the simple question: Where does Norway buy most of its sugar? We need a result of the WTO negotiations that will allow the production of agricultural products to be held up for own consumption, even in those parts of the world that are less competitive in the world market. Being clear in the negotiations that there is a difference in substance between the export right and the right to production for national consumption will be significant in relation to our trustworthiness in this area. That's real and honest argument. We have so much in common, as the representative Lars Rise had in mind, that Norway should not close the doors of alliances with developing countries. It applies not only to the fact that we are net food importers, but also to the fact that we are small and raw materials suppliers in the world economy. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs talks about trade in services, he places no such emphasis on offensive interests. It's a big paradox, because a few years ago the NHO produced a report where one of the findings was that companies operating in developing countries were expressing that the problems they encountered were of a moderate and affordable nature. And when we put our finger in the ground, is it that Norway has offensive interests in the service sector? Or is it that realism causes a much larger multinational company than – a freely chosen example – Norwegian BI that will win in such a type of competition? I have understood that Norway will not comply with requirements that have been imposed on developing countries in relation to the liberalisation of services where the developing countries have rejected such requirements. I believe these requirements should be revoked and not just added to a drawer. In addition, I think that a sober assessment of the situation in the world economy should cause the Storting to change the position in the service sector and not let purely ideological positions decide. We should be far less offensive when it comes to the liberalisation of services. One last point: last year, our approved landfill majority was the Patent Directive. Nevertheless, one must be able to say that patenting living organisms has never been easy to accept for Norway. We have traditionally been in the hands of poor countries that, through multilateral agreements, have tried to protect their own biological resources. This role must be maintained by Norway in the ongoing negotiations, and we should actively seek alliances with, for example, the United States. African countries with proposals to exclude the patenting of living organisms from the TRIPS negotiations. There's no reason for us to let go of the bridge builder role we've had in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e710	There is no doubt that the WTO negotiations are the most demanding exercise in international policy at the moment. When 147 countries with different interests agree on a common set of rules and majority decisions are not possible – the condition for achieving goals is that there is complete unanimity – it goes without saying that this requires considerable compromise from all participants if it is to succeed at all. I guess it's also right to remind you that someone who expects to compromise from others has a clear commitment to show the same willingness to compromise himself. It may also be right to recall that the best countries in economic and welfare have a much greater moral obligation to respond to the needs of the less privileged than those underprivileged. All of this I have a certain impression that there is a complete agreement in the Norwegian storehouse, with the exception of one party. With regard to the interaction between big business and government, this debate has been quite curative, for it has shown that the government, which has kept the bodies of the Stortinges informed at every stage of the process in this matter, has solid back coverage from the Stortinge. The political awakening in this debate was the change of lines between the Workers' Party spokesman and the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, and the Head of the Centre Party, Åslaug Haga. That sequence change, in my opinion, showed that the two not only have a different worldview, but they have worldviews that are incompatible. It might not be very surprising. But today the gulf was so deep that it might even be right to use another image, namely that the two of them live on each of their globes, and that the two of them belong to each of their solar systems. Thorbjørn Jagland stressed, timely at my discretion, that this matter is «fundamental» important, as he said, for the whole world community and for the Kingdom of Norway, because we are in the same boat. Therefore, it is also fundamentally important that Norway has both a government and a large majority with an almost common sense of reality. When Ichland used the image 'fundamental' important, it's not quite unnatural to remember that governments need a foundation, and at least governments need a common foundation. For this reason, I think that the political importance of the continuation must be to determine whether the view of the Central Party of what Norway should pursue in this crucial global context is at all compatible with the views of the Workers' Party and the majority of the population. So far, we haven't heard any alternative content from the Center Party. At my discretion, Åslaug Haga gave no answer to the question she was asked from Thorbjørn Jagland. So the only thing I'm sitting back with so far is that the Central Party's alternative is to be "anxious." It is with respect to report the least demanding exercise in politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e726	The Minister for Foreign Affairs is not interested in using today to talk about future negotiating positions. Well, it's got to be. I expected him to say something about it, but OK. But then I would like to ask a little about the interpretation the Minister for Foreign Affairs has of parts of the agreed framework agreement. I can limit myself to two points, so that it is possible to get answers within the timescales we have. Firstly, I would like to ask what Norwegian productions the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks can be regarded as sensitive in the further negotiation process. The second question I want to ask is related to blue box and blue support, which is stated in the agreement "must be a maximum of 5% of the production value". And then it opens up ‘flexibility for countries with a disproportionate share of their trade disruptive support located in blue boxes’. This means countries such as Norway, and this has been said to ensure that countries such as Norway are not imposed ‘unreasonably large cuts’, as it is called. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is simply: how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs interpret this flexibility? What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think is in this Norwegian sentence? The ceiling is initially set to 5 pst., except for some countries, which includes us. What framework does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that it will be possible for Norway to operate within? – This just to try to get an idea of what the Government is actually adding to the framework that has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e737	I am not going to repeat the question from the representative Wohnung to clarify how the Workers' Party and the Centre will be able to agree, but I agree that it was interesting to see the sharp disagreement, which was not clarified any further here in the Chamber. I just want to clarify something more, in the extension of the representative Jacobsen's question earlier here, as regards the developing countries and special arrangements in the field of customs. The framework now in place from Geneva meets developing countries in very important areas. The interests of developing countries have been safeguarded both through general guidelines and through specific schemes. Developing countries will have better market access for their goods and services through general liberalisation, while maintaining greater opportunities than developed countries for the protection of their own markets. It is particularly important that LDCs do not make customs reductions. It has often been the case that developing countries that have successfully expanded their economies are those who have been prepared to provide their own industry with protection while achieving strength and giving society enough time to develop varied products. With such a transitional phase, they can create strong industries and businesses that can compete on a level playing field in the global market, without the need to continue protecting their own industry. Taiwan and South Korea are good illustrations of this. They built their international trade on a foundation of national subsidies and strong investment in infrastructure and skills, while protecting themselves against competition from foreign companies. Developing countries are promised a longer period of time in the framework for the implementation of new WTO agreements and the aim is to increase the technical assistance and empowerment of the WTO. Just this last one is very important for developing countries to be able to take care of their own interests in the future. For many of the poorest countries, it is difficult to follow through on all the negotiations and ensure that their voice is heard. The negotiations set out a number of requirements for liberalisation and the opening-up of different markets. However, it is essential that developing countries retain national control and ownership of their natural resources. No one should be forced to privatize their resources against their will. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that Norway should work actively to get more countries to offer further liberalisation of the service sector through the GATS Agreement. Norway has many offensive interests in shipping, energy and telecommunications. Nevertheless, it is also important for the Christian People's Party that what happens does not result in too much pressure on developing countries to further liberalise. In particular, it is important that national authorities maintain control over their own water resources. Norway must defend the rights of poor countries to manage its own water resources and oppose any attempt to force developing countries to privatise water supplies. More than 1.1 billion people today lack access to clean drinking water, 10,000 people die every day because of poor drinking water, and in more than half of the cases this child is under five years of age. It is not without reason that it is an important part of the UN's Millennium Goal to halve the proportion of people without access to safe drinking water and satisfactory sanitary conditions by 2015. It is important to provide a predictable basis for private investment also in the water sector, and there is a need to see the water issue in an integrated context with other areas. But one must ensure that one avoids liberalisation leading to water being a high priced good reserve for those who have the ability to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e752	I think I got the point in Åslaug Hagas' first question. If I did not record errors, what positions were sensitive – that was what the wording was?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e757	Norwegian productions were the formulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e764	As far as agriculture is concerned, I say what two areas are particularly important to us in the final phase. It concerns the tariff and the handling of sensitive products. With regard to the question that was asked about the blue box, I say in the statement that how this will be further implemented, what the details will be, will be the subject of negotiations. That was as far as we came in Geneva, the wording that is here, and that means that further negotiations are needed to clarify what it is about. What will be the framework for that, I think it might be appropriate for us to discuss in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs. I am, of course, prepared, as in the past, to explain in the Committee as often as necessary. In other areas, like services, anti-dumping, NAMA, i.e. industrial products, including fish, I think it's a little too early to go in here and say what would have to be the real priorities at the final stage. We should remember that the Geneva negotiations pointed forward to the Hong Kong meeting, which is coming in more than one year from now, and I guess I also indicated quite openly in my statement that it is certainly not certain that we will be there in a year, it may take some more time. So not least in these last three and offensive areas, I think we need to get a little bit into the negotiations before we can really fix what must be the most important priorities in the final phase. But as far as agriculture is concerned, I would like to refer to my statement on that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e771	We have been told that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will take with him the recordings that have been made. But I want to make a comment on this with customs, because one of the reasons some of the developing countries have quite high customs barriers is that the revenue from customs is the public revenue they have. They are missing, for example. the blessed tax system that we have in Norway, so the customs duty is simply a way of obtaining income from the treasury. If one goes further and looks further, many developing countries may be able to develop a tax policy in line with Norway. We should be aware that in fact, the only thing that is common to the countries we provide assistance to is that they do not have the blessed tax system that we have in Norway, and thus do not have public revenues to build a welfare state, to build schools, to build hospitals, etc. Therefore, they are more dependent on — and it is much easier to do — pure collection of customs duties. And we're also going to have to admit that if we admit the rights, if we admit the possibilities, we're going to have an international policy that allows them to actually get into a tax and tax system that's not just based on customs, they'll also be able to lighten the customs walls.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e781	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The size has now come to the examination of case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 291]] The setting used here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e798	The position of the Foreign Affairs Committee is unanimous, and it suggests that there is no need for a generous presentation or debate on the matter. But because of the exceptional circumstances of the matter to which the President has just referred, I find it appropriate, however, to give a brief explanation of the matter. It is true that the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe is a fundamental part of cooperation in Europe, as we all know. It has been shown that the enlargement of the Council of Europe — it now includes Member States with a total of about one third of the total. $800 million. citizens – and the increase in the number of cases before the Court of Justice that enforces the provisions of the Convention have led to a threat of a close breakdown in work. In 2003, 39 000 new cases were brought before the Court, and by the end of 2003 there were 65 000 pending cases in the system. It goes without saying that if you don't get any action to prevent further development in the same direction, the system will simply collapse. Therefore, this proposal for revision of the Convention is promoted. These are some measures designed to make the monitoring and enforcement of the Convention’s provisions affordable in the future. One is to simplify the procedure at the time of entry into judicial proceedings. It's today so that close to 90 pst. of the cases before the Court of Justice are rejected as unfounded. But it takes all the comprehensive apparatus to come to such a conclusion. That is why the proposal is intended to simplify this ex-procedure, much like a parallel to what we in the Norwegian tradition are accustomed to in the case of the Supreme Court's Committee on Love, i.e. a silage mechanism to prevent cases that obviously do not require extensive treatment from burdening the apparatus to the detriment of the major and important cases. The second approach proposed is that issues where there is clearly a clear precedent through previous treatment should be able to be dealt with more easily and more quickly. These are issues where it is relatively easy to see what the outcome will be because there is a fixed precedent. The third is the most difficult approach and the approach on which there has been an in-flight discussion, and some disagreement, because it involves a more difficult assessment, namely a proposal that issues where there is a manifest lack of proportionality between the content of the case and the importance of that content and the resources required to conduct the case should not burden the system. In the Foreign Affairs Committee we have stated that there should not be any decisive objections to these proposals on the Norwegian side, but I would point out that, of course, there is always a difficult balance behind this, namely, on the one hand, taking into account the legal certainty of the individual citizen and the legal remedies available to each of these 800 million people. citizens shall have, in principle, in view of the fact that a court shall at all times be able to perform the tasks assigned to it by the Court of Justice. The reason why the time aspect is important, and that it is therefore important for the Storting to be able to take a decision on this today, is among other things. Norway is currently under the leadership of the Council of Europe. This is a matter of concern to all the Member States that it should be treated as a matter of urgency because these reforms, which will enable the Court to function, cannot be implemented until all the Member States have ratified this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e819	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 291]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e834	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 291]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e850	Credit notification 2003 relates to the year 2003. At some points, the review has been extended to include developments in 2004. All in all, the majority of the financial committee is briefing on what is stated in the credit notification. When reference is made to financial stability, to the Free Police Register, to monetary policy and to the International Monetary Fund, there are varying degrees of submissions from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Credit notification 2003 shows that the financial stability of the banks has been somewhat strengthened over the period since the previous credit notification was submitted. At the same time, the credit message shows that households' debt has increased in recent years. The combination of these two factors has made it necessary to point out that when assessing new loans, the level of interest rates in the future may be higher than that experienced today. The majority also say that it is important to ensure that increasing bank soundness does not lead to ‘loan pressure’. What the majority of the committee does with this is to put on a warning sign, so as to make sense that the way forward can be a little bit of a challenge, and that, therefore, it requires a little extra attention. In the 2003 Credit Communication, the Government has provided an indication of the need for a Free Police Register and whether it should also include public pension schemes. The Ministry concludes that before taking a final position on the creation of a free police register, it is appropriate to assess whether pension rights from private and public pension schemes and from public funds are to be included in such a register, so that each person is given a better and more interconnected overview of the accumulated pension intake. The government will come back to this in the course of the Pension Commission's follow-up. Several in the Committee agree. The same majority states that they do not have any comments on the work undertaken in the industry with a view to creating a single register which can give an overview of the individual's rights in life insurance, capital insurance and pension insurance. After the Committee has given its opinion, there are also letters from another group, with information on plans for the creation of an independent and voluntary register of pension rights. When it comes to the credit notification of the conduct of monetary policy, a single committee takes it for information. In addition, as mentioned earlier, a few specific comments have been added to this point. In the same way as in the treatment of previous credit notifications, an open hearing was held this year with the Governor of the Central Bank on the conduct of monetary policy. The hearing was closed on 28 September. The Hearing confirmed the impression that this is a useful input in the Committee's credit reporting management. In the case of the report of the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, this report is briefed by a number of members of the Committee. The IMF's activities are concentrated in three main areas: monitoring of the economy of national loans in the event of payment problems and in emergency situation technical assistance; Although there must be room for discussion of the methods of work carried out by the IMF, it is clear that the World Bank and the IMF play an important role in facilitating debt payments for poor countries and in improving their ability to combat poverty. This was what I was going to say about the 2003 Credit Notice. The people who are particularly interested will find more details in the message itself and in the INST folder. S. No 12 for 2003-2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e894	In the view of the Progress Party, the credit message does not contain any obvious indications of danger for the Norwegian credit market. Norwegian banks are relatively well capitalised and able to take relatively significant losses. Both the total capital adequacy and the original capital adequacy have been increasing. Despite the fact that household credit demand remains high and, for the fifth consecutive year, has a two-digit growth rate, and is also higher than the growth in household income, the significant decline in interest rates we have had since the summer of 2002 has resulted in a sharp reduction in the interest rate burden as a proportion of disposable income and now only about a quarter. 1/3 of the level at the end of the 1980s. However, there is reason to be cautious on the part of banks, so that when granting new loans they do not take into account the low level of interest we now have, but take into account that the borrower must be able to withstand a significant increase in interest rates over the duration of the loan. When the industry assures that for 80 pst. Of the borrowers, this is not a problem, it's a bit reassuring, but that means it's 20 pst. that can get into trouble. Another point I would like to raise is the system of a register of free police officers, which is mentioned in the communication. The Ministry has not consulted a draft regulation for such a free police register and the hearing bodies have been divided into views on the scope of such a register. The consultation draft outlines a scheme in which a wide range of pension entitlements will not be included and will thus have a limited value. On the other hand, a register of the type of FNH that has started work and that will contain all rights vis-à-vis insurance companies – a register that can also receive reporting from public, pension funds, banks, mutual funds and others – could become a total register much more useful both for insured persons and for relatives in terms of information than an isolated free range register. The Ministry concludes that, in the context of the follow-up to NOU 2004:1, they will make an assessment of the most appropriate type of register. In the view of the Progress Party, a total register of the type of FNH sketches will just take care of the considerations that the Ministry says they are concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e907	There are two aspects of the credit message that we in SV will comment on. One is monetary policy, and the other is IMF. When it comes to the other points, I'm just referring to the case-speaker's report, to which we join. So this is the second time that the Committee has arranged to listen to the governor of monetary policy, which, in our view, is a successful session, among other things. It allows the Storting to follow the practice of monetary policy more closely. Norway’s Bank was rightly criticised for managing monetary policy in 2002, with a one-sided focus on inflation. In 2003, monetary policy management has been more flexible, in line with the mandate. Despite the high unemployment rate in 2003, it has continued to be high in 2004. It shows the importance of closer interaction between monetary policy and financial policy and the importance of achieving a stable, lower unemployment rate. The central bank manager said that the economy had a soft landing, but it is not certain that everyone will feel that it has been equally soft. The export industry, for example, has had high costs and high unemployment, and the Norwegian economy is still suffering from the aftermath of 2002. For SV, it is important to stress that it is necessary for a small, open economy to balance monetary and financial policies properly, while at the same time taking greater care than just inflation. The emphasis on unemployment, exchange rates and output is crucial to make decisions the best possible. For a small nation with its own currency, it is very important that all relationships move in the same direction. This means that big business, government, the social partners and the central bank must play a team. So to the IMF. We are pleased that the IMF is given a wide publicity in the credit message – that's good for the Storting, and that's good for the public. We also mean it's in place to criticise the IMF, as we do in our remark. There's in no way a criticism we're isolated about. On the contrary, it's an international criticism that many environments come with. He is particularly concerned about the fact that the IMF has a template that they believe fits all countries, without regard to local conditions. Key elements of the IMF's programme are the deregulation of financial markets, the privatisation and export correction of local business, the reduction of protection of domestic production and of contractual fiscal policies. We in SV believe that more openness, debate and control of how we act in the IMF are necessary. Norway is currently mainly represented in the IMF context by Norway Bank. We think it would be necessary to politicise this, as one does in the World Bank, where one has a minister as a Norwegian participant. The IMF is very much a political organisation, and takes political decisions under the cover of being economically neutral. The main responsibility for our involvement in the IMF should therefore be transferred from Norway Bank to the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This was our comment on the 2003 credit notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e926	I want to refer to the setting and our comments there, but I want to highlight two points. Firstly, the Centre believes that a different division of responsibilities for monetary policy and fiscal policy would probably have led to a more stable development of the Norwegian economy. Some monetary policy tightening and a slightly more expansive fiscal policy could have reduced the pressure on the housing market and reduced the import leakage. It would have a better employment effect and contributed to more controlled inflation approaching the target. Secondly, in connection with the IMF, we would mention that there should be more transparency, debate and control of Norway’s behaviour, and that it is not lucky that only Norway’s Bank represents Norway in the IMF context. Debt reduction is a target for many IMF programmes in developing countries, but we would point out that many of these countries are in such a hopeless situation that Norway would rather have to work for debt relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e937	The position shows a broad consensus on credit policy, monetary policy and our policies in relation to the IMF. To the extent that it's these, it's these that only the center party and SV stand for. So here, too, we see that the possible alternative government parties divide into both situation descriptions and more operational formulations. I will leave the debate on monetary policy to rest, but I just want to note that the criticism of the mandate for monetary policy now seems to have disappeared. And the mandate is unchanged. The interpretation of the mandate has been regularly submitted to the Stortinget and has received broad support on any occasion. However, it is not possible to be a follower of monetary policy only when interest rates go down. It's going to be a little bit durable, especially if you aim towards the government position. For monetary policy mandates, interest rates cannot be fluctuated. At least there will be no trust, and there will be no predictability in a small country like Norway, which will seek to pursue an autonomous monetary policy in a quite upset sea of major players. I also see that the Senterpartiet and SV use the expression that Norway's Bank made a hunch in 2003. Nothing can be more misleading than that description, but I'll leave it. So to the IMF. I don't know where you got it from that I don't represent Norway in the IMF. It's a misunderstanding. Norway’s Bank has had a secretarial responsibility for IMF cases since the IMF was established. Here I must stress that the ‘secretarial’ does not mean overall political responsibility. It is possible that such terms may hang again from old days, as ‘secretaries’ meant something other than it does today. I have met Eastern European leaders who showed me considerable respect because I was once in committee with the title ‘Secretary’ – but I was not the committee leader. So here there must be some ideological barrier. The Governor of the Central Bank has been the Governor of Norway — and still is. This has been the case under changing governments throughout the post-war period. However, we are also involved in the ongoing work on IMF matters, and it is the Minister of Finance, I am the one who has the ultimate responsibility in all IMF matters. That's the same thing in the United States, if I'm allowed to be a little pretentious and compare with one of the biggest actors, to say it carefully, in the IMF. But no one understands it so that there is some degradation if only Greenspan meets and says a few words, rather than the Minister of Finance. So there's also a misunderstanding, that we're kind of doing something different than other countries. There is no country – at least I am familiar with – in constituencies represented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but in Norway we have the tradition that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have close cooperation when we are represented. It is good cooperation, of course also with the Minister of Development, who represents us in the World Bank. The cooperation of the Ministry of Finance with the Bank of Norway is good, and it is characterised by the fact that the established procedures are based on long experience. The division of labour is formalised by a written understanding. I can say that when Norway is now in charge of what is called ‘the constituency’ — the Nordic countries and the Baltic countries — I meet twice a year at the meetings and participate to the best of my ability. Some countries are represented only by the central bank manager, others by the finance minister, there is a variation. I must be allowed to say that the debates that are taking place do not bear the mark of a lack of politicisation. So right here, I think you're just shooting a record bomb by proposing a conversion of our representation into the IMF.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e946	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 292]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e961	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 292]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e976	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 292]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e991	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 292]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e1006	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 292]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e1014	The size must then vote on the case No. 1-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e1021	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the status of the WTO negotiations be annexed to the Protocol at its meeting on 26 October 2004. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e1072	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Erik Monsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 21 October 2004: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate as soon as possible the possibility of introducing a generally shorter storage period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e1090	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Karita Bekkemelm Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, sent by the Odelstinget meeting on 21 October 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals defining secondary education in the law on upper secondary education in the same way as in the law on training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e1108	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Jan Simonsen, sent from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 21 October 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the grant base to independent schools to capital expenditure from the 2005/2006 school year onwards.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28.ana.ud974e1128	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 21 October 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to take into account that existing independent secondary schools as per their approval. In 2004, adult applicants without the right to secondary education may continue to be admitted. The actual number of adult unaccompanied students in 2004/2005 is taken as the basis for intake and grants.’ The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left are behind the proposal, so the President assumes that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party want to vote against. - It's nodding.
