ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e31	The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e34	On behalf of the representative Heikki Holmås and myself, I will put forward proposals for the law amending the law of 13 June 1980 No. 35, the Law on Legal Aid, in cases of coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e39	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e52	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e61	In the proposal, the government proposes the law on the conversion of the Railway Agency’s business unit BaneService into a limited liability company. The draft law is a follow-up to the proposal promoted in St. pp. No 1 Appendix No 2nd@item: inlistbox It is a debate we have had earlier today, so I would just recommend the committee's proposal for a decision here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e72	This matter is, as the rapporteur said, widely discussed earlier today, but I would like to add some comments to it. This government is on a broad front in the railway sector. It concerns both the level of organisation and the level of allocation. There are obviously some misunderstandings out there and go as far as this migration process is concerned which is now to be carried out at the Railway Station. Let it be clear that the railway works are not to be privatised. A gradual transition shall take place, opening up competition in certain demarcated areas. This concerns production and heavy maintenance. This does not apply to management. We want to make the switch to give the travellers an even better offer. But it is not affected by the state ownership of the railway network here in the country, as I see some people have tried to produce it. Ownership, responsibility for operation, control and inspection shall remain with the Railway Agency, which will now have a clearer task, clearer focus. So the safety will still be at the Railway Station. In addition, it is a prerequisite for the changeover to take place under the supervision of the Railway Surveillance Authority. It has never been granted more to railway than during this landfilling period. This applies to both infrastructure investment and route provision. New railways, multiple double-track routes and new train radio systems are just some of the things that, overall, help improve safety, route provision and travel information. Millions of people are also being invested to improve the accessibility of people with reduced mobility. In other words, a significant promise is made. There has been an increase of well over DKK 1 billion in the purchase of passenger transport services by train, operation and maintenance and investment in railway infrastructure since 2001. The process of conversion that will now take place at the Railway Station will lead to further improvement, to the joy of the travellers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e87	I am not going to repeat the debate from earlier today on the competitive outsourcing of the operation and maintenance of the railway works, but as is clear and clear from the point of view of this case, BaneService is today a business unit in the management of the railway works that operates with railway engineering works prices, investments and major railway technical maintenance, and this activity has about 250 employees. In the debate today and afterwards, it has been explained by both the Councils of State and the representatives of the Government Parties that BaneService can now be the railway works which can take over the employees of the railway works that will be terminated and can take over all the operation and maintenance of the railway, with which the railway works will not operate in the future. It would be interesting when the Council of State gets the word later today, to clarify whether there is a different meaning to BaneService in the future than what is stated in the case. I would also like to refer to the majority comment of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre that when AS of BaneService is now being created, we assume that it is taken into account that «BaneService will continue to be a member of the State Pension Fund for 5 years unless an overall board decides otherwise». The comment provides the same basis as for the Coastal Works, which we will deal with in the next case. I'm sorry that a majority in the Biggest couldn't be involved in that particular remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e96	I'm not going to repeat the debate from before, even though I've been more and more confused about what BaneService should actually do – just like the SV representative. I would like to ask the Council of State what kind of tasks BaneService AS should have. In the past, they have been a large investment and maintenance project organisation. They have no responsibility for any of the daily operations. Today it has been pointed out in different contexts – not so much in this room, but outside – that BaneService should also be able to perform operational tasks. Is that what they're going to do? It would be a good thing that the Storting knew about it, because what is in the staging proposition is that BaneService should cut down from 250 to 220. I then worked hard to get space for 1000, which is to be operated at the Railway Station Operation. Earlier today, I raised a problem that is more relevant to this odelstingsproposition and, as I would like to ask the Council of State to comment: the paper on the transformation of the AS Coastal Plant states that pension rights should be passed on for five years unless a collective board agrees otherwise. In the Ministry of Transport its St.prp. No 1 Appendix 2 reads ‘provided that the Governing Board does not decide otherwise’. This is quite different. In the Coastal Works they can then stop this, they cannot do so in the Ministry of Transport. I hope that these two councils coordinate and stand for the same thing, and that the Council of State will be able to find out that there is a single board that also applies to BaneService AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e105	Much has been said in this matter during today's debate in Stortinget. When I take the floor, it is to clarify that behind the proposal to separate the production unit of the railway works from an independent production company, there is an intention on the part of the Christian People's Party to benefit passengers and other transport users. The proposal has not been made to throw money out of the window or to harm as much as possible, as has been claimed in the debate from the opposition. In addition, the activities of BaneService have been put at a competitive disadvantage for a long time. This proposal is aimed at separating units from the railway works and transforming them into a fully state limited liability company. It will provide a clearer relationship with competitors by the fact that the Railway Agency no longer both announces its mission and participates in the competition for these tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e112	The Ministry explains that the transformation of BaneService into a limited liability company is a result of an increased postponement of the production activities of the Railway Agency. It is also made clear that the Ministry of Transport does not propose to be a long-term owner of BaneService AS. So the decision that a number of people are going to make later today is just the first step towards privatisation. The Ministry points out that the aim of the increased competitive outsourcing is to make production more efficient, so that the State can recover more from the funds allocated to railway infrastructure. That's the same thing that we've heard in the other cases where we've led transformations to AS. Then the department also shows that it is difficult to determine the efficiency gain, but it is shown that the competitive outsourcing of the state road service has given contracts that are approx. 10-15 pst. lower in price than before exposure to competition. It is then interesting to note that not many months have passed since the champions of the start of competition talked about a saving of 20-30 pst. So now we're down to 10-15 pst. It's a bisector. The question is what will be the result of the seventh and last questions, if there will be any win again. The Ministry points out that the separation of BaneService will create a clearer situation about the roles of the market. In my view, it must be at least as important to have an organisation that provides the best level of safety for railway operations. The quality and standard of the railway network is, and will also be, the overall responsibility of the railway network in the future. In my view, it would have been a clear advantage if it had been analysed in line with Section 5-1 of the Railway Act in advance of the Government's proposal on restructuring. This could have excluded many questions about the security that many people are currently asking. When a majority of the Stortinget today decides to convert BaneService into a limited liability company, they will have consequences for them. They are added to BaneService to join the new company, but at the same time it is added to a reduction of about 30 people. Early retirement, final packages and other conversion agents shall be used. It becomes a paradox that while people in professional life are encouraged to stay longer in work, state companies reduce the number of people added to early retirement and end-of-life packages. And I will also refer to the different formulations that have been used when applying to the pension scheme for the addition of BaneService and that for the Coastal Plant. I also hope that it will be cleaned up in those conditions. The centre party is opposed to turning BaneService into a limited company, and we would therefore oppose the proposal for a law as presented in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e127	With regard to the issue of the outsourcing of the railway works’ production activities, I would also like to refer to my contribution to the debate in Stortinget earlier today. The transformation of BaneService into a limited liability company is an important matter and part of the Government’s work to streamline the operation and maintenance of the railway infrastructure. The conversion shall be carried out in such a way that, as many have experienced before today, security is safeguarded and can be further developed. Security shall not be put out of competition. This means that the Railway Agency will continue to be responsible for the safety of infrastructure and traffic management on the Norwegian network. The transformation of BaneService into a limited liability company will give the enterprise greater flexibility and financial freedom to participate in competition in that market. BaneService will operate in the railway market in the same way as Mesta does after separation from the State Road Service. With regard to the operational tasks that have been planned to be tendered after 2007, we have distinguished the implementation of the competitive outsourcing in two phases. With regard to the functional contracts, which I talked about after 2007, it will of course also be so that BaneService can compete for them. Some of the point about the transformation of BaneService into a limited liability company is that there should be a exempted operator in the market. We or others are not going to be the leaders of what BaneService should be able to offer. There is a lot of railway competence here, which must be allowed to develop and put into service. Furthermore, it will be up to BaneService on a case-by-case basis if they wish to submit offers on projects. It will also be up to BaneService if they want to include even more in their business, for example. staff members of the Railway Agency Operation today, and also if employees of today’s Railway Operations want to move to other operators in the market, there are opportunities. There is nothing to prevent BaneService from taking competence from today's Railway Station into its operations. I have noticed that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center's party assume that it is based on the fact that BaneService AS is also continuing membership in the State Pension Fund for five years, unless an overall board decides otherwise. In converting BaneService into a limited liability company, it is a prerequisite that the company will maintain membership of the Staten Pensionskasse for five years. The company will receive grants for the additional costs of membership. If, during the period, the board of directors of the company were to adopt a statement from the State Pension Fund, a proportionate share of this grant would be withdrawn. The company will therefore have strong incentives to maintain membership of the State Pension Fund for at least five years. I further assume that any decision in the board of directors regarding the termination of the State Pension Fund will only be valid after further discussions between the board and the trade unions in the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e140	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e143	I notice that the Council of State used the notion of ‘debate’. Discussion is not the same as a deal. A collection of boards, it says, in the Coastal Works. Why will Mr Ludvigsen take more care of them in this matter than the Council of State for Skogsholm? Does it mean a collective control, or does it not mean a collective control? Then I will challenge the Council of State once more, not that a desire to create a limited company and clear up roles, in and on its own – that’s crazy enough – but that it happens so much at the same time. So now, one of them has to set up the railway operational tasks. A railway technical contractor and maintenance service of high quality, with which it is stated that Bane Service is to operate, shall be put on the market for the carriage of passengers. All of this happens at the same time. Hasn't the Council of State learned anything from aviation, where there are so many and difficult processes at the same time that it can compromise security?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e151	Competitive outsourcing will set clear requirements for documentation of online status. That is an important prerequisite for the competitive outsourcing. I believe that, like the Railway Agency, in isolation is a strengthening of railway safety. Therefore, both the requirements for documentation of the state and the requirements for the safety tasks to be carried out will help to improve everything. In addition, we have State Railway Authority, which supervises that both the requirements of the Railway Agency and those of market actors meet general safety requirements. Back to membership of the Staten Pensionkasse: We have placed relatively strong leads to membership of the Staten Pensionkasse.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e158	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 201]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e173	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e182	The Transport Committee shall present its position on the law on the transformation of the Coastal Works’ production activities into public limited-liability companies. The background is the decision Stortinget has already taken. It has been decided by a majority in the European Parliament that this transformation should take place, and it is therefore necessary to have a legal text regulating transitional issues and transitional provisions for employees. The Committee has divided itself in the same way as it did in the political matter itself: the majority in favour of conversion are also behind the proposal for a decision on the law. The minority, who went against this transformation, also goes against the attitude of this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e191	After the decision of the Stortinget to transform it into a public limited liability company from 1 January, the Swedish Coastal Plant Production will be able to compete for a commission from the Coastal Plant, which will now be put out of competition. The coastworks' staff represent a competence and an insight into port development and fairway development, as well as navigation installations that I think today, when facing a turning point in the Coast works' activity, is a reason to underline. The employees face a competence and will face the challenge that is now, in an offensive way – I feel quite safe about that. It is precisely a recognition of the competence of employees that makes us, with great certainty, now put off competition through a state limited liability company. For generations, the Coastal Agency has been an important player in the construction of coastal infrastructure, and its employees have knowledge and stature in the coastal population of which there is all manner of respect. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the efforts that have been made, and to stress that, when we face new challenges that require reorganization, I have full confidence that the employees and the board will also succeed in doing so. With the legal text adopted today, it is possible that from 1 January we have an up-to-date State limited liability company that carries out the tasks that the Swedish Coastal Agency for Production has performed so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e200	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e208	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e252	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e265	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to oppose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e277	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e324	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e337	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to oppose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e349	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-07-lower.ana.ud2648e361	There is no record.
