ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e32	The representatives of André Kvakkestad, Olav Akselsen, May Britt Vihovde and May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e49	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e54	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e59	Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes are unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e67	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative Per Erik Monsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e72	On behalf of André Kvakkestad, Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I allow myself to submit proposals to remove VAT when purchasing legal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e78	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e81	On behalf of the representatives of André Kvakkestad, Carl I. Hagen, Siv Jensen and myself, I would like to propose a targeted and comprehensive fight against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e86	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. For the purposes of this discussion, there are the items on agenda No. Sixty-two. Case No. 2 on the agenda is relatively comprehensive, and we are on the verge of an evening meeting. In other words, it is up to the representatives themselves to decide, or assess, whether we should complete ourselves during this morning's meeting. This can be seen as a recommendation from the President that we should finish during the morning meeting. But nothing is certain until we get that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e102	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right Group and 5 minutes to each of the other groups, and that there be no repetition of the individual speeches. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e109	There is a broad consensus that labour relations are a good thing, a good that not only gives income but also the possibility of activity, participation and community. It has also been widely agreed that, if one of the reasons is either out of work or excluded from it, there is a desire for a different form of incentive to participate to the extent that the individual has the opportunity to do so. Previous strict provisions on the shortening of social security if a person received his own income meant that many did not see themselves able to participate in the working or organisational life, because the total income was significantly lower than the social security income. Therefore, in relation to the idea of an inclusive working life, it was essential that the Storting decided that the unemployed could have an income of up to 1 G without shortening the social security. This may mean for some that they maintain their relationship with the labour market, even when they are not able to participate fully. Maintaining the link with life will also make it easier to return to work if your health and general condition improve. However, since the entry into force of the exemption system, one has discovered that many people are in unfair situations, where the social security is curtailed because one so far earns a little over 1 G. This is also the background for Document No. The 8 proposal that local social security offices should be able to exercise discretion in such cases, so that the practice of the law does not have an unreasonable impact on individuals. The Committee has found it difficult to intervene in its proceedings in order to open the way to discretion, but has been concerned that legislation should be practised in such a way that individuals do not experience unforeseen and difficult situations. Several of the enquiries we have received indicate that this is happening. The Committee therefore emphasises the social security offices' information responsibilities in terms of communicating the functioning of the exemption scheme and the need for social security recipients to be provided with information in good time before shortening. The Committee points out that many people report a lack of information, and the Committee stresses the need for the social security system to improve its information procedures at this point. The Committee also considers it important that the beneficiaries of the aid be entitled to a free amount for the following year, after a curtailment, in addition to the eligible social security. However, this can often be reduced as a result of annual income. There may be many reasons why the insured person earns something above the basic amount, and that, perhaps in most cases, it is not an expression of a permanent improvement in one’s working capacity. If labour income is not an expression of an improvement in permanent working capacity, it is important that the insured person be re-assessed immediately after shortening the working capacity of the social security so that he can regain his disability at the initial level. The Committee stresses that, in such cases, the procedure must be speeded up and stresses the need for the social security system to comply with procedural rules ensuring prompt treatment. The Committee proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e128	I must admit that the first time I saw this proposal, I thought it was hopeless. I still think so, but I'm sure it was well meant. I can only believe that the proposal was promoted by the proposers because they had a sincere desire to ensure that the disabled who have a residual working capacity have the best possible relationship with the labour market. I am in favour of it being possible to use discretion and common sense even within the social security system to find good solutions for people. However, welfare benefits related to the limits of amounts and time are poorly suited to this. There would be a code that would be impossible to deal with and that would certainly lead to different decisions in identical cases. It would also feel unfair and unreasonable to those who have a lower degree of disability to see that someone can have a higher total income without causing a reduced degree of inadequacy. This is about how much a disability benefit should be able to earn in addition to the disability pension, and how an extra income should be managed. It's positive, both for individuals and for society, that people who are disqualified work. Therefore, the Stortinget has previously decided that a disability benefit can be up to 1 G, i.e. almost 57,000 kroner, without curtailment. For a person who has previously earned more than NOK 200000, this means that he can get both 100 pst. disability and at the same time have 25 pst. position. This is a very liberal system, and the amount of tolerance for how much a person can earn without having to reduce the disability pension has been set so high that it does not have to be constantly re-assessed. If the degree of disability is reduced because the additional income exceeds 1 G, a reassessment of the disability rate is ensured. This means that if you have reduced your disability because you have received income beyond 1 G one year, this disability need not be permanent. This is particularly important in situations where a higher income does not necessarily reflect a permanently improved working capacity. With this as a starting point, I think it's right that the imbalance is reduced when you earn more than 1 G, because then you've actually shown that you've been able to work more for a period of time. And nothing can be better than that, right? It's a unanimous committee that's behind the whole setting. In other words, no one supports the proposal that has been put forward. However, the Committee is not a stranger for special situations to arise and that the information from the social security system is not always good enough. For this reason, the entire Committee stresses the responsibility of the social security system for providing good information on the rules in force, so that no one is going to end up in a situation where it is surprising that income is being reduced. We have a special responsibility to ensure that we have a sustainable system of popular security, so that we ensure those who need social security benefits in the future. This is not a small task in view of the fact that one out of five persons of working age has the social security as their main source of income. In addition, the unemployed and the sick and future challenges of old-age pensions are facing. This means that instead of discussing whether disability pensioners should earn even more without reducing their disability, we should look at how we can motivate more disability pensioners to have a job alongside, and perhaps in the longer term come back to full employment. The temporary invalidity pension scheme contributes somewhat to this, but still there are thresholds that make it difficult and not motivating for disability pensioners to earn more than the basic amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e147	I'm not going to spend a long time on a matter where there's a lot of consensus in the committee. As regards the main content of the case, I refer you to the statements of the rapporteur and share the assessments that were made there. However, I would like to point out from the SV's side that the scheme we have today, which gives the individual disqualified person an opportunity to earn up to 1 G next to social security, is a good one, which is important to us and which SV wants to continue. This scheme is important in order to make a contribution to the personal economy of the individual, which, for the most part, in this situation is not a particular fact. However, even more important is this system for people who are unsatisfied to continue to be able to have contact with the labour market where possible, and to take advantage of the residual working capacity that remains, and thus benefit from working life. It is particularly important for those who come under the temporary unincorporated pay scheme. The purpose of this scheme is precisely to allow someone to return to work. It is therefore considered that the emergency situation is so uncertain that it would be appropriate to carry out a longer-term assessment. In such a situation, it is particularly important that people have opportunities to be economically active to a limited extent where it is appropriate. It was therefore very important for the Stortinget to have the Government's proposal to reduce this possibility under the unlimited zero-duty legislation when it was dealt with here in Stortinget. The consensus now expressed by the Committee in terms of the value of the scheme, and that it is a contribution to a more inclusive working life, I hope the Council of State notes, so that we do not have any more such proposals that intend to reduce this possibility. I would also like to stress, as other speakers have pointed out, the responsibility of the social security system for both information on the scheme itself and the premises applicable to it, and for notifying as early as possible if it is likely that the income limit of 1 G is at risk of being exceeded, so that people do not unnecessarily end up in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e156	The rapporteur has had a proper examination of Document No. 8:19, about the availability of labour income for disability benefits, as an overall committee stands behind. The Christian People's Party believes it is positive that the unemployed can have a free income in a calendar year without shortening the social security. This gives the insured person an opportunity to keep in touch with the labour market, and it can prevent social isolation. The most important thing about the rule is that it gives everyone an opportunity to try out if they can work more and thus reduce their inadequacy. The Christian People's Party believes it would be problematic to allow for deviations from income limits in some cases. We believe that such a judgement would lead to discrimination and thus complicate the procedure. I think it's against people's sense of justice if someone should be able to have higher income next to full performance than others. For the social security system, it is clearer and easier to inform of a clear limit to which the beneficiary can relate. An overall committee shows that the social security system has a high level of information responsibility in terms of disseminating the premises and functioning of the various social security systems. The Christian People's Party will underline the importance of information and that it is communicated in an understandable way. However, it is appropriate to note that significant improvements have been made in recent years in information on disability. Already in the Consent Decision, social security information on income limits and one year's waiting time is provided. A folder on employment and retirement has been developed entitled «To those who want to combine disability pension and labour income». This folder is sent to all pensioners one year after admission. On each change in basic amount, disability pensioners are automatically informed of what they can earn next to their pension. The person receiving a benefit is also informed of his or her obligation to notify the social security fund of changes in income which could have an impact on the calculation of the disability pension. If the beneficiary tells him that he is going to earn over the free amount during the calendar year, he has the right to a resting pension right. This means that the pension will be adjusted next year without further consideration, if it no longer has income beyond the amount of the allowance. Thus, a special situation does not have unreasonable consequences over several years. Since the introduction of temporary unincorporated pay-as-you-go, new IT procedures have been put in place, in which a call to the social security system can always tell what you can earn. Finally, I would like to refer to the letter from the Minister for Social Affairs, which states that if the rate of invalidity is re-evaluated because the income exceeds a basic amount, it will no longer be a waiting period from this year until the beneficiary is again entitled to an allowance, in addition to the income on the basis of the residual working capacity and the graduated pension. The Christian People's Party believes it is very positive that the rules of disability have become more flexible, so that people can reconsider their pension in relation to what they can master at any time. It should still be a free amount, but the Christian People's Party believes that it should not be opened up in order to benefit from the discretion of the local social security offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e182	As one of the proposers, I am pleased that, on behalf of the Centre Party, we have an overall committee on the assessment of the intentions contained in this proposal, namely a fairer and predictable treatment of the disabled who can more unwittingly serve over 1 G for one year, and who has been given an automatic curtailment of their disability until now. This is the main intention of the proposal, and therefore I am a little surprised that the Right-Representative Heieren Hundhammer could say that this was a 'hopeless' proposal. But it is also clear that there are real differences in this room in view of what is fair and fair in terms of social policy and social policy. Therefore, it might not have been quite unexpected that such a statement came from the Right-Representative. I think the committee's treatment shows that, after all, it's the will of an overall social committee to look at the impropriety that someone who has unwittingly earned something more than 1 G has automatically got a curtailment in the inadequacy. The curtailment may have had a significant impact on the future of the beneficiary concerned. What was in our proposal to give the social security offices more room for local discretion was that you should not have this entire large procedure by assessing inadequacy whether it was like having a year's earnings above 1 G, but that you along with, among other things. a local doctor, the client’s personal doctor, could assess whether this would have consequences for the level of social security, or whether this should be adjusted in such a way that it would not have consequences for the future. I believe that the rapporteur, Britt Hildeng, gave a broad outline of the intentions on which the Committee has been able to gather on the basis of the proposal. There are many reasons why a social security beneficiary can get an income that goes beyond 1 G one year, and that such things happen. It is very important that the impregnation can now be assessed quickly, and I think, among other things. that this proposal has triggered a clarification by the Minister for Social Security, which is important: one should no longer have a waiting time for the beneficiaries in order for one to be entitled to a single basic income in addition to the income derived from residual working capacity and a graduated pension. If it's not still working, the pension is 100 pst. I think it's important that you have this opportunity to make 1 G in addition to your pension. It provides opportunities to have contact with the labour market. It provides opportunities to include a social security beneficiary more and more into the labour market so that the level of social security can decrease and the activity of the labour force increases. We're a little disappointed that you couldn't choose an approach that meant that social security offices could have room for something more local. At the same time, we are pleased that we have a common position here to end this unfair treatment of the underprivileged, to give them a more flexible form of treatment, and not least that the information from the social security system should improve, so that people know what to do and also get a more flexible and faster treatment. It's very important. Finally, I want to challenge the Social Minister a little bit about what is going to happen next. What will the Minister of Social Affairs do to meet the intentions set out by a joint committee here: to improve information and a more flexible approach towards social security beneficiaries in dealing with their situation whose performance beyond 1 G has occurred and to have a rapid assessment of their working capacity, their disability and, where appropriate, their level of social security?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e199	Disadvantage is an economic compensation calculated for those who do not have their own income capacity. However, we have a free amount of 1 G – which is now at the base of SEK 57,000 – that was introduced just to give the disabled an opportunity to engage in social or work life without reducing social security. So you can earn at the base of $57,000, even if you're 100 pst. invalidate and receive 100 pst. Disadvantages. You can’t serve without limit until you see income and social security in the context. It must be such that, if income capacity changes, it must also be re-assessed. This is linked to both working pay and the legitimacy and well-being of the population. Recipients of fixed-term unpaid pay and invalidity pension may receive income up to the basic amount, i.e. a free income, in addition to full benefits, within one calendar year of the grant. When the income exceeds the basic amount, the unadulterated amount shall be re-assessed and the benefit may be reduced or decreased. The default shall reflect the actual loss of income incurred by the beneficiary in relation to the income he had before the default date. The beneficiary shall inform the social security office of income exceeding the income limit. Many disabled people will have varying working capacity due to their health status. During a good working period, he/she may obtain an income exceeding the income limit and subsequently have no income at his/her disposal for a long period of time. In such cases where a person has been re-evaluated for his disability benefit/unemployment pension but is unable to have this income in the future, he/she will be able to apply for a higher disability rate or to receive a full benefit/pension. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that from 2004 there is no longer a one-year waiting period after the reassessment of the benefit before the beneficiary can again make up to one basic amount in addition to the pension. The income threshold is absolute and is not subject to discretion, including: because a judgement could lead to discrimination. In my opinion, practice should be the same for all cases which have income alongside disability pension. A clear income limit is also easier to inform. I have noticed that the committee is concerned about the information provided by the social security offices is good. I agree. It is a prerequisite that the social security system provides as specific and complementary information as possible, so that the individual user is given a good understanding of his rights and duties. A permanent information document is established to the individual recipient of a temporary disability allowance and a disability pension. The pensioner is notified in writing by granting a pension, including: account must be taken of the income which he or she may have alongside the pension and of the need to contact the social security offices in the event of changes in income. One year after admission, all pensioners are sent a folder entitled «To you who wish to combine disability pension and labour income». And in the context of the change in basic income, each pensioner receives from the payment note in July and August a brief information on his new income limit – to mention some of what the social securitynet does in this area, and about which the representative of Lutvold was particularly concerned. The rules in this area are complicated. Therefore, it is a challenge for the social security system to inform individuals so that they are sufficiently aware of their rights and obligations. Therefore, the social security system is constantly working on finding new ways to inform. However, it is also important that individuals contribute to the accuracy of the information as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e217	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e233	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 15 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of reply following the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and five lines of response following contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e242	When the Storting is about to deal with the position of the Municipal Committee, there are four different issues, all of which concern the labour market and the enlargement of the EU/EEA area. This is for the first time St.meld. No 19, A well-functioning labour market, in which Chapter 5, which is being discussed today, addresses EEA enlargement and labour migration. There are also three Document No. 8 proposals on the same theme: one from the SV on measures to eliminate social dumping in the labour market, another from the Centre on changes in foreign legislation and one from the Workers' Party on measures and instruments to prevent discrimination and social dumping in the context of the enlargement of the EEA area. It's unusual that a chapter in a big message is lifted out of its entirety. However, the explanation is simple: on 1 May 2004, the EU, and hence the EEA territory, is expanded by ten new Member States. Enlargement leads to free labour migration. If we want to apply transitional arrangements in Norway, the legislation needs to be amended before 1 May. This is why today we are dealing with these four issues together. The time factor is also the reason why the Government has already presented its announced legislative proposal. The free movement of persons is one of the four freedoms of the internal market, and therefore all EU and EEA countries have formally committed themselves to accepting job seekers from all the new Member States after enlargement. Norway did so under the government of Stoltenberg as early as March 2001. The cooperation management followed up, and the message is initially both open and positive. This story is a good one, because when the Government has subsequently chosen to propose transitional arrangements, it is after an assessment of the situation in other EU countries. The fact is that, in other words, all EU countries have some kind of transitional mechanism to limit the excessive influx of workers from the new EU countries, to reduce the risk of social dumping and to prevent abuse of welfare schemes. I have to say that I am reacting negatively to the massive criticism of the opposition in its comments in relation to the Government's progress and process. A lot has happened here in many countries in a short time. It would be strange if Norway did not take this into account. Furthermore, I cannot fail to mention that Sweden has not yet taken a decision in the matter. The Swedish Government presented its proposal last Friday, more restrictive than ours and critical comments from the other Swedish parties. The outcome is more open than in Norway, and I can hardly see why Sweden should be highlighted and almost hailed. Despite the critical comments: as the rapporteur, I am pleased that there is broad consensus in the Committee on Transitional Arrangements and in relation to the challenges on the labour market. The majority is quite different, but the government is getting along with its policy. On 1 May 2004, a distinction is made between the division of Europe by the Cold War. For the 75 million inhabitants of the new Member States, enlargement means new opportunities for economic and social progress. One of the greatest advances for the citizens of the new Member States must be the personal freedom to travel and seek work, study and take up residence throughout the EU and the EEA territory. The exchange of labour between countries is fundamentally positive. The fact that the Nordics can go out to work, and foreigners can come here to look for work, gives people useful skills, leads to increased cultural awareness and gives opportunities for new impulses – for the benefit of everyone. The right has highlighted an offensive attitude to the opportunities offered by the EU/EEA enlargement for Norway. St.meld. No 19 also gives a comprehensive description of our future labour needs. Although unemployment is now too high, there is already a short-term need for labour in some areas or sectors. In the long term, population trends indicate a general need for increased labour force. We have to make this right. It will be important for Norway to ensure that Norwegian interests and businesses are actively involved in the opportunities arising from globalisation and the increased integration into our own continent. The development of our country depends on a good balance between labour supply and demand. When the majority of the Committee expresses concern and intends to introduce transitional arrangements, the pressure on welfare systems is one of the arguments. There are considerable differences in the level of welfare between the old and the new EU and EEA countries, and during a transitional period this is likely to lead to pressures on both the labour market and welfare systems. With these transitional arrangements for a period of up to a maximum of seven years – which may be shorter – we have the opportunity to follow developments. We get an overview, and we want to develop mechanisms and control procedures that can help prevent social dumping. If the pressure becomes too high and there is a serious imbalance in some professions or areas, we will now have the opportunity to take protective measures. The transitional rules apply only to individual workers, not to service providers and self-employed persons. For the Right, it is essential that transitional rules do not constitute unnecessary closures. We're positive for new workers, and we want to make it easier to come here and look for work. It is essential to conclude that even with transitional arrangements, workers from the new Member States will have significantly easier access to the Norwegian labour market from 1 May than current legislation will allow. A broad majority of the Committee wants this liberalisation. No batches have spoken against the need for workers from the new EU countries to apply for a work permit for a transitional period. In addition, it is a unanimous committee that supports the Government's proposal on reporting obligations for short-stay workers, or seasonal workers, as we call it. It is also a unanimous committee that believes that, as a general rule, full-time or full-time work must be required. In terms of wages and salaries, the Committee looks more divided than it really is. No one disagrees that normal pay and working conditions are required. But in particular, the Workers' Party and SV stress the issue of collective bargaining. The right considers that a work permit should be granted if the wage and working conditions requirement is not significantly lower than collective agreements, or that common to the particular profession or region concerned. Or, to put it another way, normal pay and work conditions. What's used is a word the message uses. The transitional rules do not apply, as mentioned above, to posted workers in the case of service provision. The EU/EEA legislation allows foreign providers of services to Norwegian customers to bring their own labour to carry out the mission. Unless the host Member State has legislation requiring service providers to comply with a national minimum wage or general agreement on tariffs, such posted workers may be remunerated in accordance with the conditions of the home Member State. There is no disagreement that we are facing challenges in the field of services. But a majority in the Chamber, consisting of the government parties and the Progress Party, sees solutions other than the opposition, which consists of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. The Working Party and SV come in its Document No. 8-proposals containing a series of measures to combat social dumping, which are directly in line with the wishes of the trade union movement. It should in itself get someone each to unlock their eyes. Politically, there are more considerations to take. The right is also aware of the challenges in the labour market. We know that there are already examples of social dumping, undeclared work, tax evasion and violations of the law and contract work. We are also aware that coordination between different public authorities is not always optimal. However, it must be a starting point for employers to be allowed and healthy to compete on price, within the boundaries of the Labour Environment Act. This is different from social dumping. Action against social dumping requiring legislative change need not be adopted before enlargement. This is because non-discriminatory measures will apply to the entire Norwegian labour market, irrespective of the nationality of the worker. We can take time to follow evolution. Today’s legal regulation applies mainly to non-resident workers who work in Norway. So also with the Working Environment Act and its provisions on working time and working conditions. Conditions of employment are not part of the Working Environment Act, but are up to the social partners to agree. That's how we want it to still be. At the same time, we recognise that there may be situations associated with enlargement that require further instruments to be considered. The notification then also opens up the possibility of introducing a legal framework in order to be able to intervene against pay and working conditions which are significantly worse than ‘untimely’. I see that the clock goes toward the end. Finally, I would just like to say that it is gratifying that an overall committee expresses the wish that the Norwegian labour market be an open and tidy labour market without social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e287	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e290	I note with some interest that the representative notes that it is a majority of the government's policy. Where does the rapporteur have that majority? I note that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party partly support the government's policy presented through the media, and partly support the policy as presented in the communication, which is contrary to what the Government presented in the media. In part, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have a completely different arrangement. The Progress Party has chosen not to take a stand on some of these issues, but will come back to them when the law is to be dealt with. One thing is disagreement in the case of posted workers. In other words, the question of salary requirements, where the representative now repeated the wording of the notification that action should not be taken if it is not significantly lower than what is known as ‘counterfeit’. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have agreed to have pay and working conditions in line with the applicable collective bargaining agreement, or those common in the same place and in the same field of occupation. So the right and Christian People's Party has gone against it in the setting. It could, as I said, be interesting to hear where the representative has this majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e301	Yeah, there's a lot of ways to say things. I guess I could say it so that there is no majority against the government's policy. The message is in a way bi-divided. With regard to the introduction of transitional arrangements, the Government receives support from the Government parties together with the Workers' Party and SV. Transitional arrangements are being put in place. In the case of measures against social dumping, the Government has support from the Government Parties and the Advance Party. There is therefore no majority in favour of introducing the Action Plan of the Workers' Party and all measures. I have to say that with regard to the Labour Party's policies in relation to the labour market – especially here, and otherwise in general, it is linked to tariffs and tariffs – I have not yet registered a single time when the Workers' Party does not make itself flat for the trade unions. Both the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party have the same proposals that come directly from the trade union movement. I am very surprised that political parties should not take other considerations into account as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e313	I actually had the same question as the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen. When the case rapporteur keeps referring to the Government's proposal, I think it's a little strange. But now we've got an answer to that, so I'll leave it. The rapporteur calls for alternative policy solutions and alternative consequences in relation to the enlargement that is taking place. On page 9 of the vote, I see that the members of the Committee from the Right and the Christian People's Party have five indents that point to how positive this can be in a number of areas. So far, I can join all five indents, that's no problem. But other parties have also drawn up any negative consequences, and then my question to the case rapporteur is: Have the Right and Christian People's Party also considered the possible negative consequences? And: Why aren't they also included as indents in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e320	Well, a chord shift has a tendency to construct some differences. The government also sees that we can face negative consequences, but we've always focused on highlighting the positive. The basic position of the EU/EEA enlargement is positive in relation to the labour market. As far as transitional arrangements are concerned, we want them precisely because we see that there may be some negative consequences, at least during a transitional period. This applies not least to the pressure on welfare systems. This can be regulated gradually when we adopt transitional arrangements. We are prepared to look at the situation, both in terms of measures and control systems in relation to social dumping, and in terms of systems that are operating on our welfare system. But here measures must be general and not special.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e331	In a letter dated 8 March 2004, the then State Council, Victor Norman, writes about transitional arrangements and states that transitional arrangements can ‘help prevent possible social dumping’. But then he goes on to write: ‘However, the main challenges here are likely to relate to the provision of services by self-employed and posted workers on service missions.’ Nevertheless, neither the Government, nor Kari Lise Holmberg nor the other members of the Committee's Government fraction propose any proposals relating to preventing social dumping in precisely these groups, i.e. self-employed and posted workers from the new Member States. What is Kari Lise Holmberg's reason for not supporting one of the SVs, the Workers' Party's and the Centre's proposals to prevent social dumping in the service market?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e343	The government parties mention a number of measures against social dumping, but it is essential for us that it is up to the social partners to assess the situation and arrive at measures. However, we specifically mention the Labour Inspectorate as a body to be strengthened and increased and to follow up on the subject. Here is a vital task for the Labour Inspectorate. We also have the publication of collective agreements as an area. This is now under court proceedings, and we await the outcome. We have not considered minimum wages, but it is up to the social partners and the authorities to consider different measures. In several areas, we also outline that we are not satisfied with the inter-departmental or inter-departmental cooperation and that this needs to be improved. I feel quite certain that the Government is closely following developments in these areas and is doing what is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e354	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e358	The enlargement of the EU and the EEA to include 75 million new citizens on 1 May also presents us with new challenges regarding the impact on the labour market. It is not least because the salary level in the new Member States is between 10 and 15 pst. of what is our salary level, with the challenges it brings. A majority of the committee has, in the position we are discussing today, given the Government some strong criticism of the handling of this matter. The majority have stated that it is alarming that the Government of Great Britain on a well-functioning labour market, which came just four months before the expansion of the labour market took place, continued to assess the need for action to meet these challenges. At the time, the government considered that there was no need for transitional arrangements to which the extension agreement provides access. It was only long after this large-scale notification had been submitted, after three private proposals had been submitted on measures by the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre respectively, and after all the Member States of the current EU, with the exception of Ireland, had announced that they would implement transitional arrangements in different forms, that the Government informed the Committee in letters that it would need transitional arrangements. Even at the time this setting was issued, one and a half months before the extension took place, the government had not yet prepared and presented to the Storting its final proposals for action; it happened last Friday. I register that the government has indicated contact with the social partners. At the same time, however, there must be reason to stress that there is a significant gap between the proposed measures proposed by the trade union movement and the limited measures notified by the Government. On 8 March, the then State Council, on behalf of the Government, sent a letter to the Committee indicating that the transitional rules would ‘contribute to the prevention of social dumping’. Then he wrote: ‘However, the main challenges here are likely to relate to the provision of services by self-employed and posted workers on service missions.’ At the same time, the Council of State concluded that the Government would not take action to counteract such developments before the expansion of the labour market on 1 May. This is why the majority of the committee – the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre – believe that the government's handling of the case has been characterised by a lack of power and a lack of action. It's obviously unfortunate. The criticism of the Progress Party is not less severe when it is said that the notification is at best deficient in assessing the consequences of free immigration. In conclusion, it is said that the Government must bear the overall responsibility of the Progress Party called ‘harsh works that are now being carried out in order to safeguard itself against the challenges of labour migration’. The working party has taken very seriously the concerns and uncertainties that many have felt about the expansion of the labour market. On the one hand, most people want to respect the principle of equal treatment for all EU and EEA citizens, but at the same time many have been concerned about undermining pay and working conditions. We have therefore invited a national compromise: yes to labour immigration, no to social dumping. In our view, it is disappointing that the government has not accepted this invitation. The Labour Party believes that freedom of movement would initially have been desirable, but at the same time we see the need for measures to combat discriminatory discrimination and to ensure protection against the exploitation of new EU/EEA workers and to prevent social dumping. These precautions must be in place before the introduction of free movement. However, let me first comment on measures to open the labour market for individual workers. The Labour Party believes that jobseekers from the new EU countries should have the right to a six-month stay on their own account to seek employment. That's a consensus. It is also agreed that access shall be granted to all those finding employment satisfying the given requirements. It is agreed that one of these requirements should be full-time employment – a requirement that may be waived in given situations. The working party is required to comply with the wage and working conditions of the collective bargaining agreement in force or, as is customary in the same place and field of occupation. Here, the representatives of the government parties in the Committee, and at the latest the rapporteur in his speech here today, have created considerable ambiguities. They have approached the comments made by the majority of the committees which state that they must have pay and working conditions in line with the tariff agreement in force, or those which are common in the same place and in the same field of work, and have chosen to say that there should be so-called normal pay and working conditions. Even now, the rapporteur of the case has succeeded in repeating what was said in the paper before the New Year, that action should only be taken if the salary level is significantly lower than usual. The rapporteur also argued that the Workers' Party and the SV agreed with the trade union movement in demanding a collective agreement. But what is the view of the Government and Government parties in the matter that was put forward last Friday? The proposition refers to the letter of hearing sent by the Government, where it says: «The Ministry informed in the letter of consultation that»... «the conditions of pay and work must not be worse than those resulting from the applicable collective agreement, regulation or otherwise normal to the place and profession in question.» Do the government parties mean what was stated in the motion for a resolution that was put before the Stortinget and what was stated in the letter of hearing and in which the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party agree, or do the government parties consider what the rapporteur in this case said that they disagree with what was stated in the Proposition last Friday, and which we therefore believe is very important? There is a clear need for representatives of the Government to clarify the government’s and government’s policies. The working party also believes that there must be a written contract of employment, information on housing conditions and evidence that the employer's relationship with the tax authorities, business registers, etc. It's okay. This has not been done by the Government. Increased labour migration from the new EEA countries as a result of the free movement of workers will entail increased tasks for the foreign and labour authorities with the collection, registration, control and evaluation of data related to the issue, renewal and termination of residence permits. The Labour Party will underline the need for adequate resources to be allocated to these tasks. We have also underlined that efforts to promote integration and to combat discrimination and exploitation of foreign workers must take place along several axes, both through an active information strategy for job seekers from the new countries, through cooperation between the social partners in order to inform new workers about the rights and duties of Norwegian workers, through strengthening the capacity of supervisory authorities, and in order to prevent illegal work, in particular action needs to be taken. by assigning responsibility to a central unit of the Police Directorate for combating illegal work. However, the main difference between the majority of the Committee and the Government is linked to the need for action against social dumping in the case of movement of services, such as the posting of workers, the inclusion of enterprises from the new EU countries into their own employment in Norway. The EU/EEA legislation allows foreign providers of services to Norwegian customers to bring their own labour to carry out the mission. Unless the host Member State has legislation requiring service providers to comply with a national minimum wage or general agreement on tariffs, such posted workers may be remunerated in accordance with the conditions of the home Member State. The definition of services also includes fixed-term contracts in the construction industry, sub-contracting of different types and firms providing employment or placement services. With the exception of certain types of road transport, there are no transitional arrangements. Regardless of EU enlargement, in recent years Norway has seen significant growth in the use of tenders, subcontracting and the outsourcing of services both in the private and public sectors. With the free movement of capital and services, there may be reason in a tough job market to assume that both Norwegian and non-resident companies will seek competitive advantages by outsourcing more tasks to their own subsidiaries or subcontractors in the new EU countries where wages are much lower than Norwegians, rather than using their own employees. This could mean the hook at the door of many Norwegian companies and employees, while pressure on pay and working conditions could be created in some industries with increasing use of tenders. At the same time, if the Government liberalises the temporary employment and hiring-in legislation, as proposed by the Government in the 2004 government budget, it will be able to create new channels for organised short-term imports of low-paid labour in a wide range of industries. Since the conditions of temporary employment also regulate the conditions of employment renting, an embellishment of the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act will increase employers' opportunities to cut the proportion of permanent employees at Norwegian salary levels and to deal with fluctuations in the level of activity of temporary employment or hire-up of cheaper workers from the new Member States. In this case, the losses will be vulnerable groups in the Norwegian labour market, contrary to the objective of developing a more inclusive working life. The Labour Party is therefore strongly opposed to proposals to liberalise the rules for temporary employment and hiring labour. Changes in the functioning of the labour market could lead to discrimination against foreign labour, circumvention of collective agreements and lower pay and working conditions in parts of the world of work. Since posting is mainly a matter of limited and short-term assignment, the introduction of a general statutory minimum wage for all workers is an inappropriate instrument. However, it must be primarily for the social partners to assess what measures they consider necessary to address any problems of unfair discrimination, distortion of competition and social dumping. Law on the publication of collective bargaining agreements provides the parties with a tool that can be applied in a targeted and flexible manner. This also requires the capacity of the Labour Inspectorate to carry out the tasks and to be responsible for the enforcement of the rules laid down in public collective bargaining agreements. In view of the difficulties in enforcing legislative and contractual works at short term contracts, it is necessary, in the view of the Labour Party, to develop a broader strategy to combat social dumping. In the case of service supplies, tenders and sub-contracting prices, we believe that a statutory body should be adopted which gives elected representatives the right of access to the pay and working conditions of subcontractors. In order to counteract undesirable strategic adaptations, e.g.: by getting rid of Norwegian employees in order to hire cheap non-resident labour, a law providing trustees with the right to discuss in connection with lease decisions and sub-contracting prices must be given. The main contractor must be responsible for paying taxes and taxes by the subcontractor and for complying with the applicable law and regulation. In order to discourage unprofessional activities, the authorities should evaluate the experience gained in liberalising employment services, rentals and temporary employment agencies and a system of control, authorisation and registration should be established. There is a special public responsibility to ensure a level playing field in tenders and not to stimulate competition based on the undermining and circumvention of established social schemes, such as: pensions. For this reason, the Labour Party believes that Norway should be included in the implementation of ILO Convention No. 94, which authorises public undertakings to require tenderers to comply with the pay and working conditions laid down in relevant collective agreements or those normally applicable to such work. Thus, the greatest risk of undermining Norwegian wage and working conditions comes from foreign companies that bring their own employees to Norway. This also confirms the Government in its letter to the Stortinget. However, we must note that the Government has not, however, taken any action against this group in connection with enlargement on 1 May. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party have submitted proposals in the vote, which largely implement measures to prevent undermining Norwegian pay and working conditions. That means that it is the Progress Party that has the key to prevent such development. The Party of Progress must make a choice. Will they take action to prevent unfriendly labour immigration, or will they sit and watch Norwegian jobs lose? I have noticed that in this setting the Progress Party has chosen to push the matter ahead. They wanted to wait for the government's bill. Now the government's bill has come. The government does not propose a single measure to prevent undermining Norwegian pay and working conditions. It is possible that the right in the government position seems to be a good thing that foreign enterprises come to Norway and pay much lower wages to their employees than the Norwegian company does, which will result in Norwegian companies losing jobs, and that there will be a pressure to weaken Norwegian workers' wage and working conditions. – That's what can happen. The working party doesn't think that's right. That is why the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have made proposals that will prevent undermining Norwegian pay and working conditions. But it's the Progress Party that decides. Will the Progress Party have a labour immigration in a form that could undermine Norwegian wage and work conditions, or will they not? That's the question. It's the Progress Party that decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e417	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e420	First, I have to make a small comment: the Labour Party submitted its private proposal to the Stortinge for a considerable time after the notification was submitted – just as has been said. Otherwise, I record that Schjøtt-Pedersen has a strong tendency to make policies in areas where there are no real differences. Wages and salaries are a very specific example in this case. So not everyone has a collective agreement. In the areas where collective agreements exist, we say that the agreement should be followed – and we talk about normal pay and working conditions. Where there are no collective agreements, you have to look for other rules. Then we say that there should be normal pay and working conditions there too – we talk about what is common. So you make a big policy out of this, I have to say I'm questioning you. And I think the great words used here by Schjøtt-Pedersen are in stark contrast to the fact that the Workers' Party was too free to migrate until trust elected in the Joint Union and the LO got the party to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e432	It's probably not as simple as the representative here gives the impression. In the setting we are dealing with today, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have been very precise on how to deal with pay and working conditions, and quite precisely on the wording of the requirement that: «workers from the new EU countries shall have pay and working conditions in line with the tariff agreement in force or that common in the same place and in the same field of employment». Of course, these government parties have been intensely invited to attend. But the government parties have said no, because they do not want to be involved in an emphasis on following a tariff agreement. On the contrary, they say that they must follow what they call ‘normal pay and working conditions’. That's not exactly what I'm talking about. I therefore register with great interest that the government in its consultation note and in the proposal that came Friday, used roughly the same wording as the Workers' Party, SV and the Senter Party do. But it's something quite different than the Right and Christian People's Party has formulated in the committee and in the vote. Therefore, it is necessary to clarify whether the Right and Christian People's Party believes what the Government believes, or whether they believe what the Right and Christian People's Party members of the Municipal Committee believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e444	The Labour Party and the Advance Party agree on the criticisms made in the vote regarding progress here. That criticism could, of course, also have been the coin of the Workers' Party, which was very late in deducting from requiring transitional arrangements. As the rapporteur said, it had to come by a telephone from LO before the Workers' Party reacted. What is quite clear is that the Workers' Party is today holding the key to securing Norwegian jobs. If they vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party, they will. All the 37 proposals contained in the Action Plan of the Workers' Party cannot be implemented until 1 May anyway. The Labour Party opens up labour immigration from 1 May, which will challenge existing Norwegian jobs. If they support our proposal, they won't. My question is: has the Labour Party at all considered the impact of their 37 proposals on the Norwegian labour market, for Norwegian business, for Norwegian society and for each Norwegian employee? This is a proposal for a whole new labour market in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e453	With regard to the occasion for transitional arrangements, the question of employers' and housing requirements distinguishes the views of the Government and the Workers' Party, if the government parties' representatives in the Stortinge agree with the Government, which remains to be clarified. The representative Sandberg is guilty of a fairly substantial misunderstanding. In the case of companies that bring their own employees to Norway and self-employed people, I assume that the Progress Party knows that there is no possibility of implementing transitional arrangements. There is absolutely Norwegian labour law that will be crucial. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have submitted proposals for measures to ensure the pay and working conditions of Norwegian workers and to prevent any possible undermining. It is the Progress Party that decides whether the proposals will have a majority. It is therefore not a question of transitional arrangements, simply because transitional arrangements are not allowed to be implemented in this area. I assume that the Progress Party is in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e460	I would first like to say that I am very pleased that the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have managed to agree so widely on so many points in this matter. If we can stand together in this way also in the future, it promises well for the future. I think that's a good promise for employees in Norway. It is quite right, as Per Sandberg pointed out, that the Workers' Party was too free to move labour for all the new Member States to about Christmastime. In other words, it was clear that people coming from countries with significantly lower wage and working conditions would be allowed to come to Norway, on the basis of an idea of international solidarity, among others. to allow people from other countries to come to Norway to try out happiness and contribute to the construction of the Norwegian welfare community. In my view, this is in stark contrast to the fact that the Workers' Party, together with the Progress Party, believes that it should not be possible at all to liberalise labour immigration rules from outside the EEA in the coming years, as opposed to, for example, the EU. SV and Left, as well as has proposed a green card scheme for this very purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e467	It is true that the Workers' Party has had and has as its starting point that it is desirable to achieve the greatest possible level of equal treatment for workers throughout the EEA territory. We've had a very thorough process. We have reduced a separate sample that has gone through the challenges in this area. The sample concluded that transitional arrangements were needed for a period, but above all that measures were needed in relation to the posting of workers. I have a feeling that the development of the Workers' Party and the SV in this case is quite parallel, that we initially have the same desire for equal treatment, but at the same time we also have a desire to prevent social dumping. That's why we, together with the Center Party, are behind the proposals on posting. The reality is that in the area that the Government itself considers to be the most important in relation to secondment, it is the Progress Party that decides whether there will be a majority for these proposals. We believe that the challenges on the labour market are so great that there will be no room for further liberalisation in countries outside the EEA. That's the background of our position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e476	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e479	This is a matter that should have been dealt with at an earlier time, and it is also a matter that should have been dealt with more thoroughly than it has received. We in the Progress Party have, as it says in the setting, only taken our primary position, which I will come back to later. But it is – if this is the way to say it – a historic step when the EU/EEA is now expanding with ten new Member States. With effect from 1 May 2004, this cooperation will cover 460 million inhabitants who will have a single market based on non-discrimination and maximum free competition, as well as the free movement of persons, services, goods and capital. There is nothing directly negative about the Progress Party, but as we have an existing regime in Norway that has been slightly different from the market we are now going to join, we actually have to take it inward by demanding solid transitional arrangements. Not least the great networks and welfare systems that we have in Norway in relation to Europe, and at least in relation to the new countries that come in. Here I'm just going to be allowed to refer to that the compensation of employees per person. One hour for an average industrial worker in Norway is NOK 225, while in Estonia it is actually NOK 31 and in Poland NOK 23. It goes without saying, of course, that we have to look at the Norwegian system in relation to having an opening, because transitional arrangements don't last forever, they end up. I would also like to mention that, in relation to the minimum wage in the EU country, the minimum wage is fixed in Portugal at SEK 3,424 per month, while in the new EU countries, for example. in Latvia, which is the lowest, the statutory minimum wage is 955 kr per year. months. It's so far a child's fear, to put it a little bit into perspective. This is why the Progress Party has placed a great deal of emphasis on the fact that we want to continue today's legislation for the new countries, and then we have to make changes along the way – in particular what goes on the welfare systems, which are already under strong pressure, and which both government and population have assessed to look at, possibly revised. I really didn't think I should go to work so hard today. But the progress in this matter – or history – shows that we have many ‘unaccountable’ politicians who have blind faith in only positive results at open borders – politicians who do not want to take a stand or who do not want to extend Norway on an independent basis for the last time to decide on labour immigration. The Storting has witnessed a major reverse operation from the Government in this matter. We have experienced a government council and a government that consistently stated that it was completely out of date to introduce transitional arrangements in connection with the EU enlargement – I myself have met state councils and members of the government parties in debates where this has been fixed time after time – and the Progress Party, which was first out with the Central Party with a wish for transitional arrangements, was almost ridiculed because we pointed out that there was a certain danger of welfare tourism and usunn, distorting competition between Norwegians and among others. Polish workers. The government has unisonedly claimed that this was unwarranted fear, and that there would by no means be any challenge in opening the borders from May 1. But then the press began to give examples of the major gaps in the Norwegian welfare system that allowed people from the new countries with minimal work in Norway to export welfare schemes to their home country on a large scale. Then there were reactions, and then it looked as if good advice was expensive from the government's side to find an argument that was durable to defend one of the government's so far largest spin operations. Suddenly, however, it was important to put in place transitional arrangements. It's problematic because we don't get a thorough and good enough treatment here until May 1st. Still, it will be that many holes are open, and we'll probably experience well-being tourism to a great extent after May 1. Even more disappointed can be when you look at the proposition made by the Government on Friday. There are no proposals for action here. That the government is asking for an opportunity to assess and possibly change, does not hold for the Progress Party. As far as suspension is concerned, there is no way of how many proposals – on limitations and investigations – are being submitted. Actually, everything is unnecessary per person. The present date, because it is the proposal of the Progress Party that largely solves the problems: to continue the current restrictions on workers from the new Member States. When it comes to what we can't regulate, the service part, we can't do anything about it, but what we could have done is, of course, the welfare arrangements. With our proposal, we would at least have more time and opportunity to take the necessary protective measures. It is, of course, a great paradox that the Committee actually states that there is a danger of exploitation, but nevertheless all parties will open up freer labour immigration without a single welfare system being ensured. What we need is time. We need time to go through welfare systems, and we need to prevent people from coming and getting used to that system. Labour immigration also has another negative side to which the transitional arrangements cannot remedy. It is at the wage level of the Member States. This means that it would be lucrative, especially for temporary posted foreign workers, to say yes to wages that are totally unacceptable in relation to Norwegian conditions. It has the negative effect that it competitions Norwegian labour force. We have to try to prevent this from happening, so that we get a level playing field. But to that I have to say that I am a little concerned about the measures proposed by the majority of the Committee – the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV –. In their proposal, one goes a long way – if I am allowed to say so – to ‘sovietise’ the working life. Trustees shall now be given an authority role with the right of access to all employment contracts. Therefore, the freedom of workers, whether Norwegian or foreign, to even contract employment within the boundaries of the law will no longer be real. Employment and employment relationships are initially an agreement between the employee and the employer, which no one else has anything to do with as long as the contract is within the legal framework. What this majority proposes in the form of its action plan is primarily a new labour market in all possible areas. It could have been interesting to see an analysis of the impact of these proposals, because there is no doubt that a number of these 37 proposals are so costly that there will be an extra burden for all participants in the Norwegian labour market. Finally, I would like to promote the proposals of the Progress Party and signal that we will vote in favour of I-IV and against VI. We will also vote against the motions for resolutions. One, two, five.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e502	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e508	The representative Sandberg pointed out that, with the proposals of the Progress Party, we would have had better time in relation to the free movement of services, i.e. that a foreign company coming to Norway can bring its own employees, but the answer to that is no. There would be no better time with the proposals of the Progress Party. On the contrary, the Progress Party has not, at this stage, made any proposal in relation to the main challenge of posting workers from 1 May onwards. Then the Progress Party in the position has referred to the Government's legislative proposal, and as the representative Sandberg said in his post, there was no proposal in relation to it with posting. Will the Progress Party, with its vote, prevent the implementation of measures necessary to prevent undermining Norwegian pay and working conditions? Or is the Progress Party so concerned about not having regulations in the workplace that you want to keep your eyes open and see to it that you outsource work to companies that pay their employees significantly lower than what you do in Norway, and with it undermines Norwegian pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e515	In the case of good time, it is in order to facilitate or ensure and, where appropriate, to change welfare arrangements so that they are not exploited. With regard to what the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen is concerned about, we have signaled that when we have the message for treatment, we only rely on our primary solutions. Then we've got Ot.prp. No 44 for treatment, and I expect it to have the same momentum, so that we can make the necessary decisions in relation to the areas pointed out by Schjött-Pedersen before 1 May. I take that as being given, and then it will be the task of the Progress Party to find possible subsidiary solutions. But I can already signal that the majority of the proposals contained in the Action Plan for the Workers' Party will go against the Progress Party, because it is a direct attack on the worker and industry, on which the Progress Party will not be involved. But I can also signal that we will support those parties that want to strengthen the monitoring and safeguarding of the existence of the law today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e522	The party of progress is strong in its criticism of the government's process. But it has been a long time since the Government announced a reversal, and both the media examples and Document No. The eight proposals have come after. The basis of the government is based on cross-ministerial groups and on reports submitted. So I think it's amazing that parties make so much drama of this. It is reassuring that the Government has a starting point for making decisions, and we will come back to those decisions in the discussion in relation to the legislative proposal that has been put forward. Once again, I want to challenge the Progress Party to moderate its criticism when we now know that Sweden is actually behind us in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e531	It should be a pleasure to reinforce the criticism, because when the representative Holmberg refers to the Swedish process, I recommend her to look at the process that Sweden has been through. Sweden has had thorough studies, investigations and assessments in relation to the challenges. And they've spent longer. But when they make their decisions, it's done on a basis that's completely different from what the government here puts forward in its proposition. They have seen that the challenges are much greater than what this government has seen, and are therefore much more restrictive than the decisions they come up with. But I agree with the representative Holmberg that the Workers' Party and SV should also have the same criticism, because they have not clearly indicated at an early enough time that they want transitional arrangements. It was just the Progress Party and the Center Party that did. And with regard to the selection that the Government had set up to look at this scheme, to which the representative Holmberg refers, it was quite clear that they met strong criticism for having exempted the report. It wasn't the Progress Party that gave that criticism, it was the press that did, and I'm completely behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e540	I think Per Sandberg's outcome here towards SV is a little special, because our whole starting point was that we had exactly the same analysis as the Government, namely that the big challenge is not linked to individuals from the new Member States who come to Norway to apply for work, but relate to the fact that one as a company, via hiring out labour and as a self-employed person can come over and work at a pay level that Per Sandberg described as 955 kroner per person. month in minimum wages and salaries. That is what is the big challenge, not what is going on in transitional arrangements, and therefore we also promoted proposals. And that's why I wonder why Per Sandberg doesn't mention it at all, strictly speaking, in his post that if you do what the Progress Party proposes, namely stop immigration and continue the current legislation in relation to the new Member States, the workers, hire people from the new Member States and all the others who work as self-employed or companies, will still be able to come and work to a much worse pay and working conditions. So at that point, the Progress Party has not notified any proposal or support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e545	Now it will become clear whether the Progress Party supports one direction or the other. But just to give an example: the Central Tax Office for Foreign Affairs is located in Sandnes. All of them must be recorded. So the question is, are they registered, and who is in control of it? Of course, there are challenges that we have to face, and I have received a lot of feedback during the last week that goes on this system. We also have some tax agreements – we actually have a tax agreement with Poland. The question is: who controls the tax agreements we have with these countries? When a Polish worker comes to Norway, there is no tax liability until 183 days have elapsed. Then, if any, a tax shall begin to be paid. But is there any control over that? There are such challenges we have to take, and I said in my post and in a previous line that here the Progress Party will be involved in tightening up. But we can do that along the way. There is nothing from the majority either on one side or the other now that goes on transitional arrangements that will tighten up in relation to this, because the opening takes place from 1 May anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e550	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e553	In the debate on EEA enlargement, we can get the impression that social dumping is something that comes with enlargement, almost flooding from the new Eastern European countries. It's a wrong point of view, and it's a position that we in SV have always been aware of is wrong. Social dumping in Norway is now taking place. On Monday 24 November, it was stated in the evening post that after a raid in Oslo's nightlife, it was revealed that 183 employees were taken for black work. What does this tell us? It tells us two important things. It tells us that the focus of the debate on social dumping is always on the one who works black, not on the one who employs black. It also tells us that it is too easy to get away from control of the companies that offer workers poorer and poorer pay and working conditions, and that it is profitable for them to operate in this way. In Norway, being a cellar in relation to social dumping pays off. An example of this we also had on the TV 2 news, or on the Dagsrevyen, I don't quite remember, with a company in Norway that twice during a very short period was taken to hire labour hired by a rental company, and it turned out that these were people who didn't have a legal residence in Norway, who didn't have a work permit in Norway. The construction industry addressed the problem of social dumping in collaboration with the trade and public authorities in the project ‘Seriousness in the construction industry’, and the director of Skanska was out in the evening post and later stated that he had never believed that the conditions in his own industry were as they were. Subcontractors worked in black, preferably with labour without a legal stay. There were breaches of the Work Environment Act, tax rules and a flora of sub-companies, some of which were only sold with fake invoices. Later this is shown by both the tax authorities and others. Everyone in this room agrees that the problem of social dumping can be increased by EEA enlargement. The police have stated in several contexts that in the past you could actually get hold of the employees and say: You do not have a legal residence, and that is why you are not allowed to work here. This access will in a way disappear from EEA enlargement. Then everyone will have a legal stay and have the opportunity to work. It is all right in itself, assuming that this does not lead to poorer pay and working conditions in the Norwegian labour market, both for the people who come from the new Member States and the people who are already on the Norwegian labour market. This matter is therefore primarily about what we will do with social dumping in all its facets and deportations. The funny thing is that this is what the government says it fully agrees with. In Ot.prp. No 44, which was promoted on Friday, it says that it is ‘two main reasons for the proposal on transitional rules. Firstly, it can help prevent possible social dumping with the negative consequences it can have for employment and business, as the social partners are also concerned about. However, it shall be noted that the main challenges in this field are likely to relate to service providers and posted workers on temporary missions in Norway». So here the majority of the municipal committee fully agrees with the Government. But we're left with some questions after this treatment, which has gone into multiple terms. First came a big message where no transitional arrangements were envisaged, and no kind of reinforcement was envisaged, so we can read the message, either by the Labour Inspectorate or other control bodies in the context of EEA enlargement. And so, when we do not promote any proposals in the communication, but come back later and turn around and say that we are going for transitional arrangements anyway, and come back again with a ousting proposition that we are going to deal with later, which, in my opinion, also does not clarify the essential points relating to transitional arrangements, namely pay and working conditions, then we are left with the big question: why does the Government not want to promote measures against social dumping that work in the area where the Government itself believes that the challenges are greatest, namely, in terms of hiring out labour to Norway, in connection with other services in competition for tenders, and in relation to self-employed workers who can come to Norway and work exactly as they want? If we want to strengthen the fight against social dumping, we are going to do what the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have promoted a thirty proposals, which the Government could support, if not all. If they were found not to be able to support them, they could support some of the essential points if they considered that measures against social dumping in the labour market were actually a way to go. So the government is promoting proposals for transitional arrangements, and we agree that we should have them. But with regard to what the government thinks is the biggest challenge, they're not in line with the majority, but they're not in my opinion up and in proportion to it either. They say here we can wait and see how progress is going. My clear belief is that there is no point in waiting and seeing, all the time we know that social dumping is happening in Norway now. Therefore, I believe that the government beats itself a little bit on its mouth when they say that we should wait and see. The fundamental question raised by this case is: What kind of employment are we going to have in Norway today, what kind of pay are we going to have in Norway today, and how are we going to achieve the goals we set? The SV’s clear view is that in the Norwegian labour market, all participants should have Norwegian pay and working conditions. That is what I think this is a political disagreement about. At different times, the NHO and the members of the Government have stated things that are moving in the direction that we in Norway cannot have the high level of pay and work that we have. We cannot complain about a higher level of pay and work than our competitors. The purest words for the money were the NHO that gave us at the hearing. They gave us two points. One was that any employee of an enterprise in Norway, Norway or abroad will be paid according to the company’s current pay system at any time. This implies that there will in practice be no social dumping on the labour market within the EEA territory. Get a little touch of it! This means that if a Norwegian company chooses to hire Polish employees on a Polish rental agency for minimum wages, as Per Sandberg claims to be $955 a month, it is not social dumping because it is within the company's remuneration system and therefore not social dumping. A fine formulation by the NHO. The second clear statement they made was that the most important thing in this case was to define the concept of social dumping so that it protects foreign workers from discrimination, not – and here it comes – so as to protect them from foreign competition or to protect current tariffs. The NHO says clearly, black on white: we are not concerned with preserving and protecting today's tariffs. We want the payroll down in Norway. My suspicion and my clear view when the Government will not be clearer than they are in terms of concrete measures against social dumping is that they also want pay and working conditions in Norway to decline. We need to be more competitive so that they are pushed down. This applies both to the pay conditions of the people covered by a transitional arrangement and to the pay conditions of those in the provision of services who come to and participate in Norway. It's important here to clarify what pay terms we want. Then I'd like to quote from Ot.prp. No 44 for 2003-2004, which came on Friday, where UDI says: ‘The proposed conditions of pay and working conditions will be the same as those resulting from Section 2, first paragraph, of the Foreign Regulation. 2.’» Here we go, let's go, let's go, let's ‘These are conditions that are not easy to deal with today. What is meant by the fact that the pay and working conditions must not be worse than those resulting from the applicable collective agreement, regulation or otherwise normal to the place and profession in question is not clear’. So the government says we're going to keep it unclear. That's when I say that when the supervisory authorities, those who are going to make sure that those who come to Norway have Norwegian pay and working conditions, think that the supervisory basis for enforcement is unclear, what in the world is the government's reason for not wanting to clarify this? With my limited legal competence, I know that what underlies those who are required to enforce a law is the pre-worker, and the pre-worker is primarily what is in the law. So here the supervisory authorities say they're unclear. Then I realize that the government has a strategy for this, is to continue to have unclear provisions in relation to the pay and working conditions you want, and the shadow valley is thinking about continuing after an EEA enlargement. Then we will not be able to maintain Norwegian wage conditions for those people who come under transitional arrangements, either in the labour market or in the service market. I believe that this is a failure statement for the Norwegian labour market, where we have actually achieved the highest productivity of the world per person. hours of work, including: because we have had the labour market that we have had and the regulation of the labour market that we have had. This is the Government now about to give up, with the blessing of the Advance Party. In SV we have been concerned about being constructive. We have been committed to promoting new proposals that meet the new challenges. There are very many measures that have come, not only from the trade movement, as claimed by the Progress Party and not least from Kari Lise Holmberg, but also from the construction industry itself, and also from all the various public establishments that have spoken out. What is at issue is why not introduce the registration of all foreign workers in Norway instead of only in the construction industry and the oil industry, as it is today. Why don't you do that? Why not promote concrete proposals and support the majority when it is said that we want to do this? Why is it not said that the Labour Inspectorate should have the possibility to monitor pay and working conditions as laid down in public tariff agreements? Why is it said, whether this is the instrument we are going to use to do something about pay and working conditions and to ensure that Norwegian pay and working conditions are respected, that there is no supervisory authority to monitor them? Why do you not want to go in and let the Labour Inspectorate, who today, despite everything, carries out much of the control of the foreign workers, also take responsibility for monitoring the pay conditions of the people who come here on transitional arrangements? Why will we not be able to support and extend the regional protection ombudsman scheme, which works very well in the construction industry? Why don't you agree to see if this should be extended to more people? Why do you not want to join a number of the very concrete measures that the majority is in favour of? I believe, as I said, that a good and constructive piece of work has been done by a majority of the committee, which has come up with many good and concrete measures on which it will be possible to build further if something is done with social dumping. In the construction sector in particular, it is clear that social dumping is a challenge, especially in some areas where the language is not what determines whether you can work in Norway or not. Social dumping will not primarily challenge the workplaces of the Council of State Erna Solberg or Storingsretten Heikki Holmås, or lawyers or very many other people who live by using the language. This will challenge all those who already have the worst pay and working conditions. In Norway today, we have an extensive exclusion from the labour market. And without introducing more and better measures against social dumping, I think this exclusion will continue. That's why I think the principle in this case shows that the big distinctions between the left-hand side and the right-hand side of the policy at all are not what Kari Lise Holmberg thinks is a storm in a glass of water or easily ‘overall’.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e598	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e601	The representative Holmås of SV went in strong order against social dumping and would have transitional arrangements. I think that's very nice, and a lot of what he said inside, I can actually agree. SV proposes to give EEA citizens the same right to Norwegian training as other foreign nationals with employment and residence permits in Norway. In the past, we also know that SV has proposed that all asylum seekers should be entitled to Norwegian training. I think this seems somewhat strange. My question is: has SV analysed the consequences of all this? And have they calculated what resources this will require in that case, and what will it cost to implement all these Norwegian training proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e608	If I'm not completely wrong, I guess we would have added about 100 million. kr for training for both asylum seekers and other, including EEA citizens, in the state budget for the current year. Now there is one issue later this year where we are going to deal with exactly this with Norwegian training. I don't think the issue with regard to Norwegian education will be that there will be a lot of new people who want to learn Norwegian. But for all the people who want to live in Norway, learning the language is an advantage. In fact, Norway, which is a small language nation, also benefits from more people learning this language. We need them to learn Norwegian in order to participate in Norwegian democracy, and to be able to participate in all kinds of forms of work. Not least, the social partners will need these people to learn Norwegian. Therefore, I think it is a bit strange that both the Progress Party and the government parties, and in particular the Workers' Party in this case, believe that this is a matter that is not important for the organisation of workers in a proper working life, but on the contrary something that can be left to the employer to take care of. I believe that this is a poor language policy on the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e618	An overall committee notes that ‘the Norwegian labour market shall be an open and orderly labour market without social dumping’. The Committee further notes that it is therefore ‘an important task to ensure that workers coming to Norway are offered equivalent pay and working conditions and that the authorities and the social partners cooperate in order to prevent unprofessional operators from exploiting the situation for their own short-term profits’. SV repeats on several occasions that workers from the new Member States working in Norway ‘have pay and working conditions in accordance with the applicable collective bargaining agreement’. Conditions of employment and employment in Norway are good. It has led to the deflagration of enterprises because they are losing in competition in the global market. Does it not see that the requirement of compliance with the applicable collective bargaining agreement established by Stortinget deprives the social partners of their rights and responsibilities? Does SV not see that this requirement can lead to job losses in Norway, precisely because Norwegian companies are forced to fly out?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e627	Yes, those were pure words for the money! So Ivar Østberg believes that we can reduce pay and work conditions to avoid flagging out Norwegian companies. It's interesting to hear that the Christian People's Party has now taken that position. I read correctly the Financial Newspaper last week, and it was clear – black on white – how many of the flagging plans had been implemented had just been abandoned because productivity abroad was lower than in Norway. It is clear that there is some deflagration from Norway. And it's clear that compared to doing a lot of manual things, we're going to lose businesses in Norway. We are aware that we will. The question is whether we should renovate on important pay and working conditions requirements for work carried out in Norway. We will never be able to wash e.g. schools in Norway abroad. We'll never be able to build either a big house or a closet in the rest of the world. And we'll never be able to build more rental homes to homeless people or others abroad. And then the question is, do we think that those dwellings should be built under Norwegian pay and work conditions, or do we not? There it was clear what the Christian People's Party meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e634	Should the representative Holmås bring up the proposals No. 1 and 2?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e637	It sounds like an incredibly good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e642	Then the representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the proposals to which the president referred. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e647	Enlargement of the EU to the east is a challenge, not in the first row for Norway, but for the EU, among others. for Germany and Austria. We actually have little reason to believe that Norway is destination number. 1 for hordes of people from Poland and the Baltic countries. Many EU countries are closer, more attractive and more attractive to those seeking work outside their home country. But some are probably coming to Norway. Let it be quite clear: Norway and Western Europe face major challenges when a new labour market opens up to 75 million well-off workers from low-cost countries. Let's not forget the statements: they have to take care of themselves until they get a job, and they have to get a job within six months. Unable to find work, they have to leave the country. I think that many people who come here to close and pious, either are very skilled or have an attractive education that makes them get a job quickly. Such will be a win for our country. They want to be people we need, people who increase our productivity -- even though he's tall, as Heikki Holmås pointed out -- people who want to be a plus, people who mean a progress. We don't need any protection from them. Now, of course, people who come from another culture, with a salary level that is a tenth of ours, can in a transitional period accept lower wages. They can even be picked up for job vacancies, which allows Norwegian labour force to be strongly challenged. Speaking of boiler ringing behaviour, as the representative Heikki Holmås mentions: This also has to clean up before 1 May. The world is not just a beautiful place, and it is a problem, an EU extension or not. Although the Norwegian level will smooth out such start-ups, the government will not take the chance that we will be out of competition. That is why we are doing what most EU countries have also decided to do, and we are introducing transitional arrangements. I am glad that so many have said that they are happy about it. We can be happy for something together. We want everyone who works and lives in Norway to have Norwegian pay and work conditions. It's just supposed to be missing. They have Norwegian bus and cost levels. Let it be clear to everyone: the government should do what is necessary to prevent social dumping and welfare tourism. It may get tough, but in that case it will be tough together with Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Germany osb. I cannot imagine that labour immigration from Eastern Europe will destroy welfare systems and labour rights in these countries, without a policy and legal development in these areas. Until then, the Government has in the bill proposition that came before the weekend, Ot.prp. No 44, open to so-called temporary protection, where third country legislation may be applied in the event of extreme imbalances. This means that approximation of current legislation may be reintroduced. Then we expect, as they do in the new EU countries, that the economy there will benefit from membership, and that the level of wages and costs will smooth out in the long term. That's good – for them and for us. I mean, there aren't so many people who have a dream number. 1 to come to Norway, and hardly from the new EU countries either. It also shows the fact that the current free labour market of 375 million people has only given a stranglehold of approx. 4000 a year, although we are an oil and gas country, a fishing and farming country, a power nation osb. The problem a short time ago was that it was almost impossible in Austevoll to get enough Swedes, Danish or Finns to come and get a roof. They work hard to get to it. I'm not saying that the Estonians can't have any other preference than the Swedish and Finns had. But they don't go primarily towards Norway. They also need to get a job and take care of themselves to get a job here. Then, of course, our business will get more competition from companies that offer their services in the Norwegian market. It's already happening, it's been talking about from this pulpit. So there are no transitional arrangements here. But workers from other countries on temporary missions in Norway are of course not lawless, and they should not be. They are covered by the central rules on protection in labour protection laws. If they don't, there's a hotline. Those who have provided such work must have received Norwegian tariff quota or equivalent until now, in addition to free accommodation. So they're far on the road introduced to our payroll and cost level. But they're not covered by the host country's social security and welfare schemes, so they won't be welfare tourists. The Christian People's Party is aware that it can become challenging. Norway has a serious problem now with a salary level of 30 pst. above Sweden's and Denmark's, and sky-high above the countries in our neighbourhood, such as Baltic. In any case, it will give us challenges in forthcoming wage negotiations, EU enlargement or not. It's a fact, even if we don't want to reduce wages, for all things. The world is becoming less and more transparent for most people. You can see how it is in other countries - see how it is across borders. But because we can experience an unhealthy competition, the government has brought forward the transitional arrangements that are now also coming in Ot.prp. No 44. The starting point of the Christian People's Party is that full-time work and standard pay and working conditions are required. If this fails, we will be able to put in place protective mechanisms. SV and the Labour Party believe that migrant workers should be entitled to housing from employers. I find it unimaginable. The housing is expensive, and it is difficult for many young Northmen to get a roof over their heads. This could mean that a youth from Lithuania can accept less paid jobs than a youth from Vardø who has taken up residence. In order to ensure that everyone has defensive housing conditions, there is enough of the arrangements already in place by the Labour Inspectorate overseeing the accommodation conditions that employers may have. A key point for the Christian People's Party is now to put in place a smoothest and quickest procedure to seek employment. EEA citizens – i.e. EU citizens, French people and such people – can tell about door-to-door and office-to-office travel. It's unworthy and reasonable whistling. We don't need a bureaucracy where the most important task seemed to be stabbing the heads in the wheels. Rapid treatment demands often also lead to simplification. In the long term, the demographic reality in Norway is that we are dependent on labour immigration. It is both old and new EU countries as well, even more so than we are. The problem may not be the struggle for work, but the struggle for workers. The majority of the Committee is concerned with measures against social dumping. It's the Christian People's Party and the Government as well. Unlike the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen claims, we say again and again that Norwegian normal pay and working conditions should be in force. Ot. pp. No 44, presented on Friday, has apparently led the Labour Party to understand what we meant. I'm glad. Action against social dumping need not be adopted before the extension. They will simply be so-called non-discriminatory. We deal with problems in this area when they come – and we believe they come – as normal, in close cooperation with the social partners. Tariff headings are likely to be the subject of their decision in May/June. Then, too, welfare arrangements will come under strong pressure. We are clearly concerned that Norwegian welfare schemes can be exported from Norway to low-cost countries. Measures will be taken to prevent this. It'll be a challenge we'll share with our neighboring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e687	I could first be tempted to ask the representative where it says that the Workers' Party proposes to demand that the employer keep the dwelling. It says that ‘housing information’ must be provided. There is also a requirement for housing outside the EEA territory in today's foreign regulations, and this is what we are referring to here. Otherwise, I register that the representative is trying to create clarity in relation to the pay requirements. But here's the situation that her co-representative Ivar Østberg just, a few minutes ago, created new confusion as to what the government parties think about wages, assuming that you could make a different claim than a tariff. Here again the question of the Christian People's Party, to the Right and to the Government: What do you mean? Does the Government’s letter of consultation, which is confirmed as the Government’s policy in the proposition, mean that there is a requirement for collective pay? Or do you think, as both the representative of Østberg and the rapporteur of the matter today have said, that there should be no charge for tariffs? You have to start deciding what you actually mean, so the Storting has something to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e694	I am glad that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen understands that I am out to create clarity. Clarity is of the good. What we have said over and over again is that normal Norwegian pay and work conditions apply. It's essentially a collective agreement. But some don't have a collective agreement, and then they have a bunch of pay. So I can say that as there was an odelstingsproposition on Friday and the wording in the legal texts is often the most precise, the last document should apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e701	The government, the Right and the Christian People's Party for a long time hesitated to come up with other thoughts in this matter. Only recently did the Christian People's Party realize that a common and free labour market from day one would be difficult for Norway, and that we had to take this over more time, more gradually. The Party of Advancement has consistently argued that we must have transitional arrangements, without either the Right Party or the Christian People's Party having listened. Then my question becomes: Don't you now feel in the Christian People's Party that it is a bit embarrassing to have had to change vision so late in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e709	No, we never feel that it's embarrassing to make good decisions for people and countries. We have always shown that the enlargement decided by the EU, and of which we are part by virtue of the EEA Agreement, would create major challenges. We also felt that we were dependent on what other countries did, not least our neighbouring countries Sweden — which most people have to travel through to Norway — and Denmark, and, of course, the other EU countries. To emphasize what is the Christian People's Party's view, we are very positive to the conclusion that we now have. We need the transitional arrangements. We need them because the current EU enlargement is towards low-cost countries, which will create major challenges, not least for the neighbouring countries of Germany and Austria, but of course it will also infect us to some extent. We need transitional arrangements. It's not nice to introduce them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e714	I'm glad that Anita Apelthun Seele will help to create clarity, and that in this way she refers to the last document. It sounds like a smart rule. And the last document renders UDI: ‘Whichever is intended that the remuneration and working conditions must not be less favourable than those resulting from the applicable collective agreement, regulation or otherwise normal to the place and profession concerned is not clear.’ This is probably also one of the reasons why the UDI, after having been granted a residence permit, has very little control over actual compliance with pay and working conditions. My question is twofold to Anita Apelthun Seele. One is: do you think, in the context of EEA enlargement, that it is natural that the UDI will exercise more supervision over workers who are allowed to stay? The second is, what does Anita Apelthun Seele intend to contribute to clarifying what the supervisory authorities think is not clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e726	The President would like to remind you that one should address the President, not the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e729	If I'm going to be completely honest, and it should be, I think there's a greater need for supervision in the future – at least as a transitional arrangement for these countries in the east, which is much poorer than us, comes up at a level that makes people happy to live in their own country, happy to work in their own country. Most people want to be, but some people want to come and try to keep a little bit of the wealth that exists in the West. So I think there might be more need for supervision at least. We don't have the same pay in Norway. Not everyone has a tariff quota in Norway. One is allowed to make a contract with his employer for a salary. I don't want to clear that confusion out of the way so that everyone has equal pay, so it's very easy to control absolutely everything in this area. This is a responsibility that employers have in relation to employees and that the social partners have in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e736	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e739	I should first record a creation in the configuration. On page 26, the Labour Party and SV want to own information campaigns in the new EU countries. On page 29, it looks like the Center Party has the same meaning. So that's how we view it on page 26, which is the right thing. The centre took the initiative of transitional arrangements in the autumn, as it will allow for a much better preparation of information, the necessary clarifications in the relevant legislation and the strengthening of the control regime, possibly the creation of new cooperation and control bodies. We're pleased that a total accumulation is now entering transitional arrangements. We're surprised at the government's production. It's not like the government here has been supported by its vision. In fact, it's the government that finally gave after, when she saw that there was a plurality in the Stortinget that wanted transitional arrangements. We believe it is important that a janitor, so that the extension does not weaken and work to create more orderly relationships in the most deferred parts of the world of work. We think it is alarming that the Government is so passive about what challenges the EU enlargement could bring to Norway. In the fall, calculations from the EU suggest between 300 000 and 600 000 new jobseekers from the new Member States. It was said that approx. 80 pst. Of these, they were asked to work in Germany and Italy. So it was early decided that just these two countries reserved themselves for freedom of movement – the greater the pressure on the other countries. The government's own working group concluded at an early stage with the pressure that could occur in the Nordic countries. It is thoughtful that the Government for the first time submits a pro-partition before Christmas concerning the EU enlargement, which states that they will consider equipping the Labour Inspectorate with a clause to be able to intervene if there are significantly worse working and pay conditions than today. Then the government comes with a cap. 5 in St. Report. No 19 – it is only after a decision in Stortinget that asks for a case of its own. They notify dialogue with the social partners. And even when the government realizes that there are multiples in the Stortningen for transitional arrangements, it gives way and announces it. It is when Sweden, as one of the last countries, in addition to Ireland, announces that they are considering transitional arrangements, that the government is coming on the road. It is very unfortunate that Stortinget so far has such wretched documents to stick to. It is very unfortunate that there is a billing proposition before the processing of the message is completed, a billing proposition where it does not seem that the hearing has been particularly extensive. But the most unfortunate thing is, of course, that even now the government announces a wait-and-see attitude to the challenges that may come. Let me make it clear that an open and free labour market is initially a good both for employees and for employers, but it has a balanced market. The central party believes that we need to consider the national labour market situation. We need to look at the more than 100,000 unemployed and the many others who could be on the inside of the world of work, because our initiative on the one hand is incentivising to ensure even more opportunities for employment and, on the other hand, quotas to take account of the industries that are struggling to obtain skilled labour. We believe that this proposal would also give Norway greater opportunities to provide good measures in relation to the EU enlargement. Then we take an initiative in this matter, where we are surprisingly only receiving support from SV, in order to make it possible to practice the law more flexibly for jobseekers from outside the EEA area who are all in the country. In this respect, large-scale representatives from many parties have been able to make arrangements for some individuals and for some families – who are thus well integrated into local communities, who have work and support themselves, but who do not have protection requirements. We don't want this as a change that will weaken the institution of asylum, but we actually thought that we could use the potential that is now in the proposal today, so that these could seek employment from Norway. So it would be a worthy point from Norwegian government in a situation where it actually is. are the UDI who has contributed to their continued presence in the country with long-standing proceedings. The centre party is in charge of the Labour Party and SV on important measures to prevent social dumping from 1 May. In our view, the hearings organised by the Committee have reinforced the need for clear messages. The Reality sense is clearly different between the employer's side and the employee's side. Then it is important to keep track of were, have clear messages before 1 May, both in relation to the many employers and in relation to the employees. It should work preventively both for the enterprises planning to base themselves on decent labour, for the workers who come with unrealistic expectations, and for the many trusted and important tasks they have in the individual workplace. We believe that the experience of Norwegian pay and working conditions is also important when it comes to supply. That's a really important point. Requirements for housing and for trustees to have full transparency and access to information on pay and working conditions in all facilities are necessary. An approval system for rental and temporary employment agencies is an important measure in itself to sort out unprofitable enterprises. We also want to ratify ILO Convention No. 94 to ensure specific requirements also in the case of supply in the country and municipality. The experience also suggests, with the copies that have been referred to recently today, as we have seen in the media, a significant strengthening of the supervisory and supervisory bodies. I want to challenge State Council Meyer to clarify what plans he has in this field. There can be no doubt that the Labour Inspectorate here has a key role to play. So we're now in a situation where the Progress Party on one side has gone high on the track in relation to transitional arrangements, but where the Progress Party today creates ambiguity in relation to what the situation will be after 1 May. I am pleased that they today at least have announced that they are going to go through very carefully both the proposition and the actions taken from the majority of the committee. But I think it's embarrassing that the government is creating expectations about measures to counteract social dumping, and then the most important thing being warned is a pending hold. The last time in the debate, the government parties have created a great deal of ambiguity among themselves when it comes to wage and labour relations, cf. Apelthun's seal's reinforcement with regard to what's going to apply, Ivar Østberg's line, and not least the case-speaker from Right, who is attacking those in the hall who think that collective agreements should be founded. When the Government is so very careful to expect what all the other Nordic countries are doing, before they can at all imagine looking at transitional arrangements, why is it not that they could at least look at the other Nordic countries, both Denmark, Finland and Sweden? What is being debated there is considerable cooperation with the trustees in the individual workplace in order to create as tidy relationships as possible. The only thing we're happy with in the proposition that we're going to deal with later is that there are already fast procedures for seasonal labour – otherwise it should just be missing, because there's a co-conspirator's committee behind it. Finally, I take up the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e769	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e774	I have two challenges for the representative of Meltveit Kleppa. This applies not least to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Has the Centre considered the consequences of such a proposal, with the influx of asylum seekers we have into the country today? What will the consequences be, assuming that we know that there are actually 17 000 people in reception today, if we're going to make it clear that all of these are going to have the opportunity to apply for a work permit? My second challenge is in relation to the action plan promoted by the LO, on which the Central Party is involved. Has the Central Party assessed the impact on the industry they represent, i.e. the primary industry of agriculture? Because I believe that agriculture is also covered by all the 37 measures proposed in this action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e781	I get a feeling that the Progress Party has not assessed the double signals they send, with on the one hand going out hard in relation to the transitional arrangements and on the other hand now being those who are involved in the process of separating more from Norway after 1 May than what could have been the situation if one had seen some leading var-actions, as then the majority in the Committee are united. To the two questions: I want to clarify that proposal No. 1 relates to individuals and families who have been in Norway for several years and who are well integrated into a community, and similar few who are here for study or other reasons. It's actually not a general opening for all those in reception. Then we have recorded that when it comes to agriculture, both the Farm and the Agricultural Employers' Organisation themselves have pointed out that there is a need for more orderly conditions than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e790	The centre party asked for clear messages, and the centre party gave clear messages: ‘Norway needs the cultural and economic stimulus offered by immigration and emigration.’ ‘Norway has a small, open and internationalised economy that is being pushed by deregulation and liberalisation in more and more areas.’ And ‘there is a need for a more open immigration policy’. And they have a proposal: to facilitate labour from outside the EEA territory. I do not see these quotes from the position as clear and unambiguous, when at the same time there is a strong criticism that the government has not been quick enough to come up with measures to protect us. Do we need the more open immigration policy that the Centre Party is calling for, or are we to protect ourselves, as the Centre Party calls for?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e801	So here the Central Party has given the Christian People's Party the opportunity to secure multiple numbers for a proposal that would give some more people outside the EEA who are well integrated into our community, the opportunity to stay here permanently. There is one way to open up labour immigration, in addition to the narrow understanding that the Government seems to be putting into this process for the time being. The short version is: Yes, we need stimulation. We have proposed quotas for ourselves. There is no doubt that there is a need for more labour in certain industries. But we do not want as a Christian People's Party to go on chords with everything called pay and employment, which is established over a long time and confirmed and confirmed in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e809	Why is it always the case that when matters relating to the EU are discussed, or most other issues coming from the Government, the Centre Party chooses a negative approach? 1st May will be historic. On 1 May, the EU is moving from being a Western European Union mainly to becoming a pan-European Union. At the same time, the Centre Party knows just as well as everyone else in this Chamber that in the near future we are facing major challenges of labour shortages. The only way to cover these is in the short term labour immigration. Why does the Central Party not see positive features in this enlargement as well? And why is it that the Center Party one and only focuses on problems, when this is a potential issue and this is one of the solutions we're looking at a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e816	It could be tempting to return the question: why in all the world should the country have a government that is initially so positive to everything coming from the EU that they are not awake to counter-representatives? Because that's actually what's confirmed in this case. I believe our vote in Stortinget over a long period of time has shown that there are EU directives to which the Central Party has joined without further delay. And then there are other aspects that we think are crucial to have a critical attitude: that Norway should be the country in Europe that is most open and cannot take account of either the labour market situation or the many that could be related to the labour market if one had put in more force, and even less so that all the other countries in Europe almost ask for transitional arrangements before Norway finds it too well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e823	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e826	The left believes that immigration is necessary and positive for a society, including for Norwegians. In history, we have never been seagoing in human terms, and Norway would have looked significantly different – in a negative way – if we had not been an open and inclusive society in most of our history. Many Nordics have traveled the world, and many foreigners have come here for a short or longer time. It has been enriching for individuals and for society. The health of our society therefore depends on the fact that at the bottom we have an open and positive basic attitude towards people, regardless of which country they are originally from. The left will always be on guard against hostile flows that create suspicion and reluctance, and are based on the generalisation of individuals, whether in terms of nationality, skin color, religion or other factors. In the 2001 election campaign, the Left was the only party that dares to speak out about labour immigration, because in this country we will have a considerable need for more hands in order to take care of our value creation and well-being. If we are not mentally prepared for this and create a positive climate for immigration, we can get very bad out when the major changes in the age structure of the population take place in a short time. The left is therefore very pleased and proud that the Government has followed up the Left's policy in this area and has made it easier to provide the labour force that businesses and the public need, when labour cannot be provided domestically. This does not conflict with providing increased employment for the many unemployed who we already have in Norway. The opposition parties are very critical in the present setting that the Government is not more restrictive and hastened to notify transitional arrangements after EEA enlargement on 1 May. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are in a state of crisis, calling it spectacular and talking about fambling and lack of action. The left will distance from such claims. This is obviously about a different basic political stance — while the three parties on their side lodge for the protectionist part of the trade movement. The trade union movement is an important player in this context. The government has drawn the social partners closely into the process and will continue to do so. But it is not obvious that the trade union movement and its citizens have completely parallel interests in this matter. Some parties choose to act as spokespersons for special interests, and that's their choice. For the Left, it is important to stress the independence of elected representatives and our responsibility for the ability of all citizens of the country – and not just some of them – to express their opinions. It is not long since the Workers' Party and SV expressed much more positive views on labour immigration – with caution in relation to restrictions and transitional arrangements – but now they are dealing with the most nationalist parties in their rhetoric. This also has something to do with what the climate of the social debate has, and with our ability to find our place in the open world. In this respect, it is positive that, in spite of all the positive statements made by an overall committee on EU and EEA enlargement, which gives people in Eastern Europe the increased freedom and the new opportunities that they did not have behind the Iron Curtain many years ago. The Nordics are used to traveling in close proximity anywhere in the world, and it seems bad that we are at home clever nationalists. An enlarged EEA area will give more individuals a chance — including those who want to go to other countries — and will give Norway an increased opportunity to recruit the labour we need in the future. The left joins the positive comments of the Right and Christian People's Party on page 9 of the setting. It is this which is the most important thing in the matter, and which should not be overshadowed by worry and black paint. This does not mean that the Left does not see the challenges in this matter and will take them seriously – as the Government does. The left agrees with the Committee’s comment that Norway should have ‘an open and orderly labour market without social dumping’. We believe that competition is important also in terms of price, but that this should not necessarily be mixed with social dumping. I do not want to go into any further individual questions, but I agree with the comments made by our government partners. Despite the criticism from the opposition, the attitude shows that the Government has implemented its policy in this matter. Left is well pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e852	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e855	The left's path in this matter has been more winged than any other party. After all, according to Trine Skei Grande, it has been no longer than the election campaign that you were very much in favour of labour immigration because you had to secure Norway's labour force. But that's not what's been the main argument the times I've met Trine Skei Grande in the debate. The main argument has been the liberal basic position of the Left, which in a way is that people are born free, and that they should be able to travel wherever you want in the world – in a non-profit world. But I notice that the government has no points to make sure that people from outside the EEA can get the opportunity to come to Norway – something both the Swedish and the Central Party have in this case. So the centre party is more liberal towards people outside the EEA than the Left in this case. It might be something that should make the Left People shake their heads. Last year, Trine Skei Grande thought it was a disaster that SV would consider transitional arrangements if no action was taken against social dumping. So I'm now recording that Trine Skei Grande is in favour of transitional arrangements, and that we are the most concerned about getting social dumping measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e867	As the representative Heikki Holmås claims that the Left has winged in this matter, I shall easily find some fine newspaper clippings that show how the representative Holmås has winged in this matter. We've been for work immigration. We are also for what we have called an honest door to Norway – also outside the EEA territory. We are committed to finding the arrangements that make it possible. We have said that we do not want transitional arrangements, but as the rights system has evolved in relation to the EU, we see that it has given some openings regarding social rights in Norway related, for example, to: children who are not in the country, for whom we are open to transitional arrangements. But we want a country that is as open as possible, we want it to be as open as possible with regard to labour immigration. Even outside the EU, we want mechanisms that can do this. But now, after all, it is all this matter that is on the agenda. We and the government have stood firm on the points on which we have always stood firm here. It is SV who has jumped after the Workers' Party to try to join a group together with the trade movement. And there's been a lot of winging from SV's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e874	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e877	As a value-conservative center party, the Coastal Party wants most people to have the opportunity for work, participation and a good environment where they live and have their social networks. And to ensure stable housing, we have to live by the principle of moving capital, not people. Within each country, a rural policy must be pursued to prevent the depopulation of rural areas and urban population pressures. Internationally, we must help the poor countries to cope with themselves and to have democratic governance that ensures a fair distribution of resources in society. Only in this way can you prevent people in poor countries from being forced to leave their families to seek work abroad. In the view of the Coastal Party, tourism and the limited and reciprocal exchange of researchers, specialists and students can contribute to development and better understanding between different countries and cultures. Only the research and specialist communities of poor countries need to be strengthened and not weakened by such an exchange. But when rich countries systematically recruit poor countries' expertise, this is a form of imperialism that prevents the development of poor countries. And when large populations in poor countries are forced to cross borders on a more permanent basis, it can lead to conflicts between peoples and cultures in the recipient countries. In particular, if immigrants in the rich countries remain poor and the wage and welfare systems of the indigenous population are under pressure because of immigration. Unfortunately, enlargement of the EEA is an example of how to facilitate more brutal competition in the labour market by allowing the free movement of labour from poor to rich countries in the EEA. Norway is the richest of the EEA countries and could therefore be hit hard by such schemes. We should also be aware that the economic crisis and increasing unemployment in key EU countries, such as Germany and France, could increase the pressure on immigration against Norway. Therefore, it is striking that the Norwegian Government in the field of immigration is pursuing the most liberalist policy of all EEA and EU countries. It was only after all EEA and EU countries had made demands for transitional arrangements that the Norwegian Government was willing to promote similar requirements. However, transitional arrangements only provide for a temporary postponement of the problems. And the situation may get worse when Romania, Bulgaria and possibly Turkey enter the EU and thus into the EEA. The Coastal Party does not want Norway to be part of the EU’s major cross-border labour mobility project. The aim of this project is to put national wage and welfare systems under pressure. On the contrary, we want to recover national control of our labour market by notifying Norway out of the EEA. Our alternative is trade agreements both with the EU and with other countries. Having said this, I have to say that we have to deal with the regrettable fact that we have a large majority for the EEA on the Stortinget. So far, we have to get the best out of this situation. The Coastal Party will therefore support all good proposals for temporary restrictions and controls on labour immigration in the context of the enlargement of the EEA. In the Coastal Party, we are pleased that the Government ended up proposing transitional arrangements for labour immigration and opening up protection measures after the enlargement of the EEA on 1 May this year. The government requires, among other things: that workers from the new EU countries have the same pay conditions as Norwegian workers and it will strengthen the registration arrangements for temporary work. However, the government goes far too far in adapting to the free labour market. In particular, we will question whether Norway has to allow free imports of labour in the field of service missions. We are voting in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party to continue all current restrictions on labour immigration and proposals for entry for citizens from the new EU Member States. We are also voting in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party to ask the Government to implement a broad review of all welfare systems, with a view to ensuring them against abuse by foreign workers. The Coastal Party cannot support the Workers’ Party’s, SV and the Centre’s proposal to give jobseekers from the new EU countries the right to stay for six months at their own expense in order to seek employment in Norway. But many of the proposals for action against social dumping are good. The coastal party is strongly opposed to the proposal of the Centre Party to facilitate labour imports from countries inside and outside the EEA territory, following a closer agreement between the social partners. Such a system could easily lead to large migrations in peak periods of capital surplus and similar major problems in the Norwegian labour market during recessions. The Coastal Party believes that we need to adapt economic instruments as far as possible to the population we have, rather than making immigration a cyclical instrument. It is also a mockery of the unemployed to talk about labour shortages when the unemployment rate is now fixed at over 100,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e909	First on geography: it is not that many will come from Eastern Europe to Norway when the EEA is now enlarged, because the EU is not enlarged to Eastern Europe. If the EU were extended to Eastern Europe, Finland or e.g. Vardø ha were in Eastern Europe. The countries that have entered the EU are the central European countries. This may sound like linguistic fine-tuning, but for those who are in debt, this is quite important, because the 'Eastern Europe' concept is a political remnant from the Cold War, which has little to do with the current Europe. And it was these central European countries that the Stortinget at the end of January, when we had this up, when the consensual agreement was to become part of our new trading zone. As far as I'm concerned, it was only the Coast Party that voted to the seventh and the last vote against that extension, although in the debate here it could sound as if some others too might have voted against it that time. I'll get back to the Progress Party a little later here. Most of us, at least, voted for an extension, because it would have a positive effect on the new Member States, it would have a positive effect on Norway, and it would have a positive effect on Europe's collective approach. Therefore, the financial contributions made by Norway in the new Member States are also important. In principle, there's nothing new about us. When we entered the EEA in the early 1990s, Portugal, Greece, Spain and Ireland were also members — countries with much lower costs than Norway had. They may be a little bit further away, but basically there's nothing new. In the same way, we faced the same problems as we do when we get into Poland or other neighbouring countries, either from the Baltic or from other parts of Europe. Although the extent of possible access to workers from these countries is unknown — that was also the case at the time — one may think that more people will try to get to Norway from these countries that are close to Norway and have a certain tradition of coming to Norway than from those countries that are further away. However, it is important to bear in mind that there is neither a massive cross-border migration of workers in the EU – as the EU now knows – nor between the poorest countries in the EU and richer countries that are a long way away from us. On the contrary, there is an amazing lack of people travelling across borders to look for work. Maybe one could wish there were several people who did it. So it's not a fundamentally new problem, but it's important that one, when one has the possibility, gradually enters the new situation. Therefore, if necessary, there is also a broad consensus on the use of transitional arrangements, possibly later also a safeguard mechanism. I don't think of transitional arrangements as the big debate here. This is a debate on when things could be put on the table, etc., and it is partly a debate on the content of these transitional arrangements. The big debate here is on the regulation of the Norwegian labour market. In my view, it is not the foreigners who are the problem or the battle theme – although there are some people here who want to make foreigners a topic of conflict – the discussion here is about how to organise the Norwegian labour market. It is entirely possible to do a lot within national legislation. The points put forward here by the Labour Party and, in particular, by the Swedish Labour Party are examples of measures that can be implemented within national legislation without conflicting with EU or EEA legislation. Usemja here is about this, and not whether to have a transitional arrangement or not. It also has relatively little to do with the EEA extension. There are some points, but mainly this is a political discussion about the content of the Norwegian labour market and how it should look. Then it becomes a little funny to right at e.g. The working party is stressed when it relates to collective bargaining agreements. Yes, we are under stress when it comes to collective agreements, because it is one of the building blocks in a civilised labour market that we have developed, which is important in Norway, which is important in many other countries, and which we therefore want to take care of. There's a lot of things going on here, but there shouldn't be any problem with a highlight of the collective agreements. It should be a point to highlight tariff agreements as an instrument for sustaining a civilised labour market. I would like to remind you of the discussion that was before the EEA Agreement came. Then the Christian People's Party was very eager to get a law on publicising collective bargaining agreements. Without the Christian People's Party, we had never received a law on the generalisation of collective agreements, precisely because one wanted a regulation of the labour market, and with the collective agreements as an important element. So one might say that that law hasn't been used so much, contrary to nothing, but the willingness to use that kind of instrument was important that time, and he's important now. That's what we want to get, and that we can go on that road. Then I also hope that the Christian People's Party in the future, when we re-examine these points, because this is not the last chance to raise such points, will show the will to regulate the labour market and support the social partners, and especially trade unions, in the same way that they did ten years ago. Then it might be possible to get a part of what we want. There is also no reason to keep an eye out that the Workers' Party or SV has a vision that coincides with the vision of tradesmanship. It seemed to me to be a debate we could put aside, because one looks at the content of what is proposed, not on the subject, as an illusion. There is no problem that one has a vision that coincides with his tradesmanship, just as little as it was in 1992, or at any time, when others also thought that strengthening the social partners was an important point. Let's look at the need to strengthen the social partners, at the mechanisms that allow us to have good social arrangements and pay schemes in line with what is "common" here in different terms. Maybe the parts aren't as unbalanced as it sounds, at that point, but the problem is we haven't got to the right which one of the games actually means about this point. What is often a collective collective collective agreement, most people have referred to, but what is involved in maintaining the Norwegian system of civilised working life is a matter of being concrete. The concrete points are on the table, and that's not the last time we look at them. The government will be able to come back to the list from both the Working Party and SV at later conditions. What we can say now is that it's very unclear what the government thinks about this specific list, but we hear a lot about what they mean about the transitional arrangements. It may be well and good, but we want one now and in the future to come back to the concrete points for the organisation of Norwegian working life. State councils may come up with it later, but if they don't do it now, it should be an obligation from the Government to come back to concrete assessments of these points at a later date. The Progress Party has had an approach angle to this, which illustrates quite well that this is a debate on Norwegian employment and what it will look like. The representative Sandberg had approached a necrologator of the independent Norwegian labour market — i.e. the years we have left of this labour market, that's how I heard it. They have put forward a proposal that they think solves a lot of things. That proposal does not solve anything. There is no solution in relation to trade in services; there is no solution in the long term to labour immigration for individual workers, because this is the same as a transitional regime. What the Progress Party should have done was to vote against and have made sure that Norway had not joined the EEA at all, and then one could have decided that this is a line to follow. But they didn't, and then it's kind of like cheating when the nose's off. Now it's done, and so it's one of the common labour market, although the Progress Party would want one to have a Norwegian labour market, where one could run social dumping in the same way as one does today, because that party is against the measures against social dumping that we have proposed. It is only because they want it to form a form of social dumping to take place within today’s legislation, but not in a new enlarged EEA area. There is an important difference, and we can take it into account that this is also the case in the EU area. The Progress Party does not stop being the Progress Party even if we are in a common EU/EEA area, SV does not stop being SV even if we are in a common EU/EEA area, nor does the Labour Party. We are excited if the government party ends, but they have time to come back to the issues of regulation of the Norwegian labour market in their posts – and later. With this I refer only to the specific points that have been made by the Workers' Party, and SV in particular, and to the posts by Karl Eirik Scjøtt-Pedersen. To my great surprise I am also completely agreed in what was said by Heikki Holmås here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e935	It's almost seven minutes in three. Now we're starting to get an overview of the rest of the list, and if you add it up, there'll be a little less hour, 50 minutes. The President therefore proposes that the morning meeting continue beyond the scheduled time. 15 to the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e939	In view of the fact that in many areas of the position and in particular in the case we agree, I am amazed at the level of the debate in relation to being critical of each other. I want to start by commenting on the article for Steinar Bastisen. When he says that it is important to create economic development in other countries to prevent people from coming, I would say that there is hardly any instrument that is stronger to create economic development than to integrate people into the same trade area and integrate them as you do now – by expanding the EU into Central Europe. It is probably the strongest measure we have to achieve a distribution and economic development in Europe, and we should be happy about that. We should have it with us when we take the debate on what it must mean for us, that we also have a responsibility for stability, for development and to prevent areas in our neighbourhoods from becoming dependent on it. Then I want to say something about political promises. As politicians, we often make political promises nationally. But in one area, in fact, this government, and not least the previous one, has given an international political promise. At the beginning of the negotiations on the EEA Agreement, the Government of Stoltenberg said that Norway would not need transitional arrangements in relation to the free labour market. This government, supported by a majority in Stortinget, said the same thing when we went into the final negotiations on EEA enlargement. We therefore gave a political promise to other Member States that we would open up our labour market. Therefore, I am actually very comfortable that Norway is one of the last countries to have closed their labour market. We have eight countries with a population that have had a expectation of being able to participate in the European labour market from day one, and we – through two governments and a majority in the United Kingdom – have created this expectation. I would like to remind you that from 1 May, the eight countries will have voting rights with regard to framework conditions that matter to Norwegian society, and have more to say than we have, because they are members of the EU and we are not. Therefore, I see no need for us to be in the front line to close our borders, after we have given these political and moral promises in advance. I think there's a goodwill here, and we've been able to understand that we've changed in relation to the promises that were made at that time, because the countries that we're talking about have understood that it's hard for us to stand alone. That was the basis for the government's so-called reverse operation, which I also want to say was a very well-known reverse operation. It is stated in the report that is being discussed today that if the other countries close down, the government will review what is our principal position on the open market. So we've done that reverse operation, and it's not a big failure for us -- it's actually a finding that at the moment we were to swallow away all the movements as the only free country, the challenges for us would be considerably greater. I want to underline another essential thing in relation to the debate that is going on here. It is said that we have no measure against social dumping. The main measure introduced against social dumping — in and on the contrary by the Right — is the law on the publication of collective bargaining agreements. At that time we said that we will first see if there is any need, so it has taken nine years – nine years – before the first case has come. So we believe that it is not time-critical to implement all the different changes before 1 May. We have the opportunity to develop this and to look at it, and not least we have the opportunity to do so now in terms of what Tariffs will say about the requirements for the publicisation of collective bargaining agreements carried out in seven different facilities – with different industries involved – that are now being treated. What emerges from the assessment of the subject matter of the Tariff will also say about how good and useful the law on the publication of collective bargaining agreements is in order to be able to follow up the work on social dumping. The social partners also tell us, both the employer and the employee sides, that this is the most important tool, and we need to look at the outcome of this. There is also the question of how much and what of a collective agreement we generalise – and in what way it is defined – an important topic, which shows that this issue of collective agreements is not always obvious, because collective agreements regulate a lot more than just wages, they regulate wages in a lot of different circumstances. Therefore, it is not so easy to clear up all the misunderstandings that might have arisen, and for which maybe the UDI would have wanted to have had clearer legislation. But our working life is not necessarily so simple that we can achieve full clarity. Individual assessments of what can lead us to achieve what is left behind, namely that there should be normal working conditions that apply in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e956	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e959	In view of the timing, debate and proposition presented by the Government on Friday, some clarifications are needed. Can the Council of States confirm that during the transitional period the salary requirements will be the same as those resulting from current foreign regulations § 2-2? In that case, the Labour Party agrees. In the presentation of the transitional rules by the Government, it was also said that the housing requirements would be met. The working party believes that workers should be provided with shelter that meets the requirements of the health authorities, i.e. does not require that they should be accommodated by the employer. You have to be sure to live up to the requirements of the health authorities, as is also apparent from Section 20 of the Foreign Regulation, as it applies today. The spokesman from the Government has opposed this, but at the same time has pointed to today's demands. The Labour Party therefore proposes that the housing requirements for workers outside the EU/EEA area be continued for the new Member States during the transitional period. Do the councils agree? Finally, the Workers' Party has requested that there be a requirement to ensure that the employer is sound in relation to taxes and taxes. Why has the government gone against it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e972	I'm glad I can confirm that then we agree. The regulation of pay and working conditions proposed in the proposal submitted on Friday is completely identical to the requirements of today. I just want to stress that when it's hard, it's because there are no collective agreements in all areas. It is difficult to find out which law applies to the different jobs. There are many major sectors in Norway where there is little organisation, and where collective agreements are also to a small extent widespread. We have to look at what's going on in the different areas. Where there is a collective agreement, it is quite natural that it is the collective agreement that applies. In the proposition that was made, we have not made housing demands, because we want effective regulation. When it comes to demanding housing, we believe that there will be a large amount of demand that we will be able to enforce to a small extent. And to the extent that we enforce it, it is actually the employer who guarantees a dwelling or has provided a dwelling. So it's the employer who today is very much met with such a claim. I think we're going to have a real discussion about how much bureaucracy we're going to undertake to enforce a claim for which it might not be such a great basis, and which we have experience for actually is difficult to enforce. That might not be such a big basis for having it any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e983	Service provision, or contracting, as one also calls it, is the challenge. Within today's system, as I also pointed out in my post, it's the 183 days that are the limitation on being taxable, etc. This could be done, for example, by: be a Swedish registered company with Polish workers coming to Norway. They change teams every 182nd day, and then they release the tax liability to Norway. There is also the question of VAT. My question is therefore: what is the Government spending to do with the overview of this, so that we at least get a level playing field in that area? We also have a major problem with the distribution of responsibilities in relation to the public authorities responsible for handling employers' taxes, taxes, customs duties, etc. My second question is: what will the Council of State do, in contrast to the action plan presented here today, not to exacerbate the situation in relation to social dumping, but to strengthen that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e992	There are different tax rules, depending on how you enter Norway. The general rule is that you pay taxes to the country where you live most of the year, cf. the major discussions on where individuals with relatively large assets actually live in Norway. But this is one of the things we're working on. The reason why we have proposed that we should impose a reporting obligation on all those who work more than one week in Norway – that is, a new measure not included in the bill – is that in order for these agencies to be able to cooperate, in order to know who is actually working, we need to have a registration earlier than after three months, as is the case with today’s legislation. When we get it in place, we need to ensure good cooperation between the different levels, both for those who have to pay taxes, pay taxes, and for those who have to pay VAT. Then, of course, we also give the police the opportunity to enforce the legislation. If you have not been registered and have not complied with the notification requirement, it will actually be illegal to work in Norway. It is also important to assess whether or not there is a work that is being done in black.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e999	I thought I was going to drill on this with pay. In the Communication, the Government considers giving the Labour Inspectorate an opportunity to intervene in respect of work carried out at significantly lower wages and salaries than ‘recurring’. That's the formulation that exists there. Now my question is, what's substantially lower? Is it 10 pst., 20 pst., 30 pst., 40 pst. or 50 pst. lower than the ‘revenue’? And what does the Council of State understand with the word "gangs"? It is therefore thought that the Labour Inspectorate should carry out this monitoring of wages and salaries. But then it has been thought that the UDI should continue to monitor earnings towards those entering into transitional arrangements. The Ministry writes: ‘For example, it will not always be easy to assess the normal pay level for the place and profession in question. On the other hand, it would be difficult to regulate in detail the salary level to be considered acceptable.’ This is what makes UDI think that legislation is unclear. The question then is, what does the Council of State intend to do to clarify this legislation? Does the Ministry intend to harmonise it in relation to the legislation applicable to the Labour Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1015	It says in the big message that you want to assess. This means that you want to consider whether to introduce such an option. So it's one of the things that you're going to think about, is it even possible to operate with a term like "tangs" or how much distance is going to be? We're not done with that. It is under the responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Administration. But I want to underline one thing, and that's that there's a significantly less time pressure to do something about it when we've decided that we're going to have transitional arrangements. This would not be a law that would be directly applicable to the movement of services. What can be used for the movement of services is the law on the publication of collective bargaining agreements. Law on the publication of collective bargaining agreements is a very important piece. In fact, there is a risk for any enterprise or company submitting a tender in Norway that, in the middle of the tendering period, they will have to pay much higher wages if they have fallen at a low wage level because they are able to make public the collective agreements in that area. It is therefore not possible to have clauses – or to take them into account – in relation to this type of tender, but it is part of the risk that all those moving into the Norwegian labour market must take. I have to stress one thing: I can see that UDI wants a simple regulation, but making a very simple regulation in such areas means that we are starting to introduce minimum wage schemes in this country. In particular, minimum wage schemes have been opposed to the trade movement, as there are so different working conditions in the different parts. Now we have a flexible system that allows us to evaluate this along the way, but of course we have to keep track of how far it goes. But simplicity means that the lowest becomes the standard, and we must not forget that. If we don't have the lowest standard, we're not asking for simplicity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1022	It is good that Tariffs now consider the generalisation of tariff agreements, but I think the Council of State is drawing this somewhat far when it considers that the parties to the labour market are pending when it comes to that decision. In fact, it's an important part of the world of work, that's tradesmanship, that's done a great job of figuring out how today's rules actually work. My question will then be: Is an authorisation system for rental and temporary employment agencies something that the Council of State thinks should be reconsidered? Does she agree with Ingelin Killengren and Eva Joly that trustees in the workplace are very important when it comes to the detection of financial crime, and that they should therefore have an impact when it comes to contracts for hire and reward? And then I will say finally: the debate today shows that there is a need for a new and thorough round with regard to Ot.prp. No 44 for 2003-2004. For example, when it comes to § 2-2, UDI has said that the conditions there are not easy to handle. Then I wonder that it already seemed to be multiples for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1031	§ 2-2 of the Foreign Regulation is exactly the same legal definition as the UDI has managed for a ten-year period in terms of labour immigration in that country. When we face the deadline of 1 May and say that it is time to clarify this without regard to others – i.e. how that clarification might affect the formation of wages in these areas – I think I must be allowed to warn a little from the pulpit against making this difference bigger than it is. The need for simpler legislation is quite right, because it will be administrative simplification, but it will also have consequences for what requirements we can set. In those areas where there is no collective agreement, it will be quick that the smallest requirements will be applied, in order to make it too simple. I agree that it is important to reveal black work. I think some of the fine thing about EEA enlargement is that some of the black work – if we now get proper relationships around – can be transferred in order. Because it has been difficult to get a job in Norway, some of the countries in our neighbourhoods have been contributing to the fact that many of those sent out of the country because of illegal work actually come from there. Now they want easier to do the job they've done illegally before, legally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1038	I thank the Council of State for a precise clarification. I understand that for workers subject to transitional arrangements, action will be taken if pay and working conditions are worse than collective agreements, etc., not only if they are significantly worse. However, the Council of State said that ‘it is not time-critical’ to take action against enterprises that include their own workers. But isn't it underestimating the situation? Some people might have used this expression a little naïve. Will not the reality be that on 1 May, the enterprise A whether a neighbouring enterprise B outsources work to companies with lower wage and price levels, so as to assess whether they themselves have to, should or should they do the same? Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that action in this area must also be clear from 1 May, otherwise processes will be initiated that contribute to undermining pay and working conditions. Does the Council not see that these processes will be initiated from the start, and that it is therefore time-critical that this is in place on 1 May?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1046	I believe it would be natural for us to gain experience in how an enlarged EEA labour market works before we go to major conversions. It's part of the Workers' Party's list that the Government is also interested in doing something about. Among other things, we have declared that we should do something with the supervisory authorities and give them the strength to follow up better and coordinate in several areas. That is why we have been busy getting this notification requirement, so that we have the opportunity to monitor what is actually happening in the Norwegian labour market – know who is here and who is working. But in order to choose the right tools and to know what is going on in the areas where there are the biggest challenges, I think it would be wise to look at how the inflow is, see how the law on the publication of tariff agreements works, and see how strengthening the supervisory authorities helps to provide us with information on what are the major challenges. There are a number of measures proposed on the list of the majority in the Committee, the minority in the Chamber, which are also quite labour and bureaucracy-increasing, and which do not help to make Norwegian business easier. We have a higher threshold to say that a country that has problems with competitiveness should also ensure that we become more bureaucratic towards business. Then we'll have some time to think about how far we're going. But we're very busy cleaning up the Norwegian labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1053	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1056	The Progress Party has for a long time pointed out that there is a significant Norwegian need to implement effective transitional arrangements for labour immigration from the ten new EU countries. The party of progress is in such a way that the Government has come very late in this context, when we know that until recently the Government has assumed that there was no need for transitional arrangements from the Norwegian side. It was only after almost all EU countries had notified that they would introduce transitional arrangements that the Norwegian government came on track and announced that Norway would also introduce certain transitional arrangements. But better late than never. It is, after all, positive that the government has finally ended up at a counterpoint to what is the Government's original view in this matter. However, it is true that the EEA Agreement only provides for transitional arrangements for individual labour immigration. In the case of services and self-employed persons, we do not have the same possibility of implementing transitional arrangements from 1 May under the EEA Agreement. There is, of course, some reason to fear that the more restrictions are on individual labour immigration, the more labour imports could be organised through businesses and self-employed people. The question then arises as to the extent and impact of this on the Norwegian labour market. But it's almost impossible to predict this fully, only experience will give us the whole answer. In the Progress Party, we do not believe, as the Government does, that labour shortages will be one of the most prominent challenges for the Norwegian labour market in the future. We therefore strongly disagree with the production that the Government has been running on for a long time, namely that labour shortages are a problem that will become so significant in the Norwegian labour market that it must be opened up as quickly as possible for free labour immigration from the outside world. The reality is that we have some unemployed people in Norway today. Moreover, in some industries, such as agriculture and the public sector, we have a not insignificant overemployment. Norway has put together a labour force resource that can be exploited much better through social transformations in several areas. At the same time, there is reason to believe that increased mechanisation and continuous technological progress will increase the efficiency of many work processes and thus contribute to reducing the need for labour in many professions and businesses in the future. It is a fact that the economic and welfare differences between Norway and the new EU countries are so significant that this alone means that adaptations to the labour market between these countries must take place gradually over time and not from the first day of May 2004. The impact of free labour migration from all of the new EU countries from day one should in no way be underestimated, as the Government initially appears to have done. Free immigration from one day onwards is likely to result in significant problems on the Norwegian labour market in the form of social dumping and pressure on various Norwegian welfare systems. There is also good reason to believe that there would be particularly typical low-paid workers in Norway who would receive the greatest pressure as a result of free immigration from day one. Unskilled and low-paid people would probably be the first to feel the consequences of free labour immigration from low-cost countries, i.e. the ten new EU countries. One would risk increasing unemployment and wage pressure downwards among unskilled and low-paid people, and I actually can't see any big benefits of it. Although there are significant advantages to creating a common and free labour market in Europe, this should and cannot be fully implemented until we have achieved the greatest possible degree of harmonisation between countries in terms of pay and working conditions, as well as as as possible social and welfare arrangements in the countries covered by the single European labour market. We hope that the EU enlargement from 1 May with ten new EU countries will bring rapid progress in Europe in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1069	As several speakers have spoken, 1 May this year becomes a historic day. The enlargement of the EU with ten new Member States marks a distinction in relation to the sharing of Europe by the Cold War. The amendment extends the common labour and service market from 385 to 460 million inhabitants. In view of our future need for labour and skills, this is good for Norway. This may help to ensure that we are recruited from foreign trade unions with skills that we do not have today. There will be a positive contribution to increased value creation, to the development of the Norwegian economy, to the development of public services and to the development of our own business. For the Government, it is an important goal to ensure the recruitment of the skills and labour we need in our country. The legislation has changed in recent years just to add better rights to this. The need for further simplification and simplification of the regulatory framework is assessed on an ongoing basis. Some of this debate may give the impression that on 1 May this year we are being flooded by workers from the new EU countries and that Norwegian employers and suppliers are ready to exploit them. My starting point is another one. I believe in the responsibility of the labour market to take good care of new workers from the new EU countries. I am initially confident that, for moral reasons, but also for my own interests, employers want to take good care of the workers who come to our country after 1 May. I trust that Norwegian working life is busy by and through proper and good treatment wants to strengthen itself in the competition to attract the attention of competent, well-trained workers from the new EU countries. However, there is no reason to conceal a certain concern that the free movement of workers can lead to imbalances in some national labour markets — including our own. The Government's proposal for transitional arrangements must be seen in such a light. The transitional arrangements provide, inter alia, for: as a general requirement for workers from the new EU/EEA countries to have full-time work and normal Norwegian pay and working conditions. This proposal is an important contribution to reducing the risk of social dumping. In addition to a transitional regime, it will be open to the use of safeguard measures in the event of serious disturbances on the labour market. This requires good monitoring of the labour market, which we will intensify through statistics from the Statistical Central Bureau, the Aetat and the Foreign Office. The transitional arrangements, as commented on in the debate, will not apply to the provision of services by self-employed persons and posted workers on temporary missions. There is a consensus here that the main challenges of possible social dumping will arise. However, the proposal for transitional rules could also have a positive impact on these groups, both as a consultative factor and through infectious effects. The Government will place great emphasis on continuing the dialogue with the social partners on the need for further action. In my own Labour Policy Council there are two meetings where EEA enlargement and social dumping have been on the agenda. The social partners are sceptical about the statutory minimum wage standards. The Parties also stress that they are awaiting the treatment of the subject of the Tariff in the public service matters currently under way. These matters will be a test whether this is an appropriate instrument I have noticed that the majority in the vote is in favour of strengthening the work of the control authorities to prevent social dumping. This I will follow up. In this respect, the Labour Inspectorate will be one of the most important actors to ensure compliance with the rules applicable to Norwegian employment and that this part of the supervisory activity needs to be strengthened. The enlargement of the EU/EEA will require further efforts from the Labour Inspectorate, including: as a cooperation office responsible for informing about the employment and employment conditions applicable in Norway. More targeted information will also be needed for Norwegian employers and contracting entities using non-resident workers or services. In particular, there will be a need for enhanced supervision and control against selected industries. This would discourage the reduction of key basic rights relating to working time, written employment contracts, health, environment and safety as a result of EEA enlargement. I want to finish what I started. The EU/EEA enlargement provides Norway with opportunities – opportunities to increase the country’s value creation by recruiting the skills we demand. This is not least important to include in a debate where the possible disadvantages have a focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1090	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1093	The majority of the municipal committee points out that there is a need to work along several axes to promote integration and counter discrimination and exploitation of foreign workers. We point, among other things: the need to develop a broad strategy to combat social dumping. Trustees must be entitled to have access to pay and working conditions. The right to trust elected persons must be discussed in cases where they are tenants and sub-entreprises. We also need proper control, approval and registration of the agency that drives or hires out labour in Norway. Otherwise, I refer you to the detailed proposals for actions presented by the majority of the municipal committee. My question to Meyer is: why is the Government rejecting the proposed measures, which are strictly necessary to promote integration and to counteract discrimination and exploitation by foreign workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1100	We have a clear strategy for avoiding social dumping in relation to the EU/EEA enlargement. However, we are of the opinion that many of the measures taken in the opposition's proposals require better balance and better assessment before they are implemented. We have a Labour Policy Council, in which we would like to discuss with the representatives of the labour market the necessary measures that best address the challenges of possible social dumping. So I want to return to the fact that the tariff topic now has the possibilities of publicising tariff agreements. I think there is little doubt in this room that, regardless of any other proposal, it will be the most important measure to prevent possible social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1109	There are two things I would like to challenge the Council of State to answer. What is social dumping? Do all the seasonal workers who have worked in the primary industries in recent years, from Poland and other countries, represent social dumping? Is it social dumping if a Polish worker comes to Norway and works for an hour's pay under tariffs and under hourly wages and takes the earned capital back to Poland and possibly strengthens its situation there? Then I understand that the Council of State argues that unemployment in Norway is going down. Then I would like to challenge the Council of State: does he agree that the greatest danger of social dumping is lack of jobs, start-ups, etc., i.e. that what creates social dumping is that there are too many people who are looking for work, compared to how many there are who are offering work? Then it is easy for the person who is offering to lower the offer to the employees. Does the Council agree with this, and that it is growth stimulus, framework and working conditions that need to be regulated, based on the available work capacity we have at all times?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1116	I record that the representative of the Progress Party and the Government has a different perception of reality in the future challenges in the Norwegian labour market. We are concerned that the long-term challenges for Norwegian working life are the lack of access to skills and labour. In fact, there is an important and very crucial question of how this nation is able to sustain the important welfare solutions in the future. As a matter of fact, I believe that enlargement of the EU, with the possibility of recruiting new and competent labour from the new EU countries, is in many ways a major and important advantage for Norway. With regard to the issue of social dumping, many of those who come here will experience dramatic increases in their standard of living, even at a lower wage level than what we perceive as commonplace, so the question of social dumping may be whether this migration means that the conditions for Norwegian workers are getting significantly worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1125	Can I not just immediately refute these claims that the main reason for the Government not to introduce part of the proposals that have come from the majority, i.e. from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, is that they will wait and see how the EEA enlargement is going? The main thrust of our proposals has been promoted on the basis of today's labour market, social dumping in today's labour market, the need for action and, at least, the need for action in the context of the EU enlargement to the east. Among other things, one of the proposals being promoted is that the decision taken in the subject matter of the Tariff should be monitored and followed up by the Labour Inspectorate. That's one piece, as we say. This is based on a situation that exists in Norway today. The second is the ILO Convention, as the Government says it will be considered to implement the law, while the majority believes that we should do so immediately. My question is, this is something we can do right away, so what's the reason why the Government doesn't signal that we're going to do this for all state businesses and other public enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1134	In the case of ILO Convention No. 94, I can inform the Swedish Government that this is being treated by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is assessing whether the ILO Convention is to be implemented in a new State procurement document – which is expected to be completed in the summer of 2004. In the case of an ILO Convention, it will be introduced. 94 in an area representing 18 pst. of gross domestic product. We experience that the dialogue in the Labour Market Policy Council gives us good opportunity to assess the measures that may be appropriate in relation to the issue of social dumping. So we're not of the opinion that this is time-critical in relation to May 1st, and that's once again so that the decision of the collective bargaining committee in this context is quite decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1142	I PETROmagasinet nr. 1 for 2004 is an overview of the different aspects of the EU enlargement. International Director of the NHO, Jon Vea, etc. that language skills will be required for jobseekers in most professions and that action to increase Norwegian competence has already been taken. He says that ‘Aetat is preparing language training for all immigrants from new EU countries’. I ask the Council of State to confirm it. Director Vea also says that ‘wages in Norway are not necessarily pressured by labour immigration. It is provided by control mechanisms. It is illegal to pay a non-resident less than a Norwegian employee. Employees from other EEA countries shall be employed under the same conditions as Norwegian workers, both in terms of pay, dismissal, equality and protection of employment». I am asking for a closer look at the control mechanisms that the Government will set up to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1158	As I underlined in my first post, I am committed to strengthening that part of the Labour Inspectorate that is to be followed in particular in relation to the consequences of EU enlargement. The Directorate of Labour Inspectorate is responsible, as a cooperation office, for informing about the working and employment conditions applicable to posted workers, and the extension of the EEA Agreement will require further efforts in relation to information aimed at the activities of the new Member States and workers who are likely to come to Norway. In addition, targeted information will naturally be needed in Norway for Norwegian employers and contracting entities using non-resident workers or services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1165	The Council of State said that there was a need for a ‘better balance and better assessment’ of the proposals submitted by the majority. I note that it is only five weeks left until 1 May. And as far as the social partners are concerned, I note that, at least on the part of the trade union movement, there is strong support for most of the proposals that have been put forward, and that there is also a need for action from the construction industry. Among the proposals made by the majority of the Committee, to which the representative Sandal also referred, is the need to improve the quality of employment services and hiring out. During the hearing held by the Committee, the head of the group of one of the country’s largest contractors stated that part of the activities carried out here are purely criminal. Do the Government and the Government agree that there is a need to establish approval and control arrangements for companies operating employment services and rentals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1172	In my Ministry’s budget proposal for 2002–03, the impact of the rules on labour market has already been explained, and the Stortinge has been satisfied with the evaluation in relation to the treatment of the proposition. Any authorisation arrangements introduced must generally apply to all in the industry and no stricter rules or conditions may be imposed for establishments renting or distributing labour from other countries in the EEA territory. Most enterprises use only Norwegian labour, and this is done in an orderly manner. The Ministry of Employment and Administrative Affairs cannot see that there are grounds for laying down the detailed conditions for the notification, reporting, supervision, organisation and operation of the intermediary and rental activities before 1 May 2004. If developments subsequently become such that it is deemed necessary to impose new conditions, this could be done in accordance with regulations to such an extent as the situation in this area should indicate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1181	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1184	Our country is facing a new and demanding task when the EU is expanded from 1 May this year. It also has clear consequences for the labour market in EEA countries. With this in mind, the Government is required to promote the implications of the transition to the free labour market and what measures should be taken. The government has had a very low pace of processing this important matter. In addition, there are very few proposals that can help solve the challenges our country will face in a short time. There must be an offensive policy from the Norwegian side when the EU enlargement becomes a reality in just under one and a half months. It is a paradox that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre were standing alone during the proceedings of the Municipal Committee on measures that should be put into action. I would like to comment on some of the proposals that the Committee on Civil Liberties has launched. The Labour Inspectorate must have sufficient resources and powers to do the necessary work. For example, it will. are relevant to the control of working time and other areas for which guidance is provided by the Work Environment Act and may include housing and fallow standards. The majority of the Committee also emphasises the need for the adoption of legal frameworks which give trust-driven rights to the transparency of the pay and working conditions of subcontractors. Such a practice is current in the context of service provision, supply and subcontracting. Unfortunately, if such a practice is not established, there is every reason to believe that the use of labour from EU countries will flourish. We also believe that trustees should have the right to discuss when applicable with tenants and sub-contractors. Unfortunately, experience suggests that there is a need for a restrictive attitude towards companies that drive the supply and hire of labour. There is a need for a system of control, approval and registration of the agency operating in this field. Today, employers are required to report on foreign workers in the construction and oil industry. Reporting must take place within 14 days of the start of the work. When the EU enlargement is due to take place, the majority in the Committee believe that the reporting obligation must be extended to all foreign workers in all industries. If the conditions of the labour market are to be satisfactory, the supervisory authorities must have proper conditions under which to work. Employees must be able to legitimise and crew lists and record-keeping must be available. Therefore, it is proposed that such measures should be implemented without delay. Other important measures that should be introduced are the extension of the system of regional protection measures and the introduction of industry standards. This means setting out requirements for the publication of offers and the conclusion of contracts, and also setting out requirements for pre-qualification. In this way, one can prevent unprofessional operators from getting contracts. The majority of the Committee believes that it is necessary to draw up an action plan to combat discrimination and social dumping when there will be more pressure from outside the Norwegian labour market in a short time. If such an offensive is not taken into account, there is a high risk that enterprises will get rid of Norwegian added labour and, instead, hire cheap foreign labour. There is a clear danger that employers will exploit citizens from the new EU countries. The danger is greater when it applies to pay for them added. On this basis, the majority of the members of the Committee have agreed that workers from the new EU countries should have pay and working conditions in accordance with the current collective bargaining agreement or the standard practice in the same place and in the same field of work. I have done well for a number of measures that are being proposed during the examination of the cases in the Municipal Committee. What is common to the many measures proposed is that the Government Party and the Advance Party reject them. This has to keep an eye out. The Labour Party is involved in proposing measures to provide workers from the new EU countries with defence economic and social conditions. In addition, the measures we propose will create order in the workplace. We thus ensure that Norwegian wage and work conditions are not undermined. It is now less than one and a half months until the enlargement of the EU is a reality. Then there is every reason to expect that the problems will be reported in many Norwegian jobs and for many foreigners looking for work in our country. Despite this fact, the government has been very passive. She had not yet presented to the Stortinget its final proposal for action when the Committee presented its position. That is clearly critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1212	1 May this year will be historic. The European Union is going from being essentially a Western European Union to becoming a pan-European Union. It is positive for Norway, it is positive for the new Member States, and it is positive for the whole of Europe. The underlying lines of this case are essentially between those who, in principle, wish to restrict human rights to mobility between countries and those who believe that the free movement of people is a fundamental positive. The right belongs to the last. When restrictions on the movement of labour to Norway from the ten new EU countries are now being imposed, it is not because we want it, but because it is strictly necessary. Sweden was the last EU country to notify transitional rules in connection with EU enlargement on 1 May this year. This has led, as far as I know, to Ireland alone, of the 15 Member States of the European Union, which are without transitional rules or which do not propose such rules. Norway, as an EEA member, cannot have a substantially different regulatory framework without attracting a large number of jobseekers from the new EU countries, possibly attracting some who are more interested in participating in our welfare systems than in creating a better life through work. In particular, our welfare schemes, such as daily allowances, sickness benefits, disability benefits, old-age pensions, cash benefits and child benefits, are subject to abuse. I would also like to point out that there is already an abuse of these schemes. Due to the high level of costs in Norway, there will be a particular challenge in exporting welfare schemes. Therefore, the right is satisfied that the Government has implemented control measures, including: strengthen the system of registers and improve the flow of information between different public bodies and have promised to follow the situation closely. Norway has not served to export Norwegian welfare schemes out of the country and is used by people who have been in Norway for only a short period of time. The foundation of the EU is the four freedoms: the free movement of goods, services, capital and people. These principles have led to higher economic growth for the Member States, thus contributing to a higher economic prosperity for the citizens of the countries. It is therefore quite natural that other countries also want membership. EU membership of the ten new EU countries will undoubtedly be an important instrument in their national fight against poverty. And one knows that freest trade facilitates economic growth, while isolation creates economic stagnation. In the future, Norway will have a significant shortage of labour. This deficiency may lead to lower economic growth and risks such as: important sectors such as the care of the elderly and the hospital will have to deal with fewer hands at work. Labour immigration is the only short-term measure that can prevent the number of employees and hands at work from becoming a critical factor. The representative Heikki Holmås is right when he characterises that there are social problems in the labour market today. Even I agree with the description, but I deeply disagree with the solution. The representative Per Sandberg characterises the proposals of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre as ‘sovietising employment’. I would go so far as to say that some of the proposals create greater rigidity in the labour market. And if one uses Germany as an example, one knows that a small flexible labour market over a long period of time can create sustained high unemployment — at least facilitate it. Several of the proposals from the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre will also be bureaucratic, not only for the public but also for enterprises. In the fight against unemployment, we need a flexible labour market, but also a labour market that is open and without social dumping. The fight against unemployment also does not need bureaucratic barriers, where the impact of new rules is most uncertain.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1231	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1239	We're ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1260	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 3 and 4, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 5, from Magnhild Melveit Kleppa on behalf of the Center Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate labour from within and outside the EEA territory by agreement between the social partners.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1285	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1288	I ask that the proposals be split up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1295	We can do that. There is a vote on proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The situation asks the Government to come back with proposals based on the continuation of all current labour immigration restrictions and entry restrictions for citizens of the new EU Member States.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1312	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to immediately launch a broad review of all welfare systems, with a view to ensuring it against abuse by foreign workers, and that this is done within the demarcated period of the country’s sovereignty to determine its own immigration policy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1327	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to open the application for employment from Norway for persons who have either resided in Norway or otherwise have a connection with Norway and who are resident in non-EEA countries.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to grant EEA citizens the same right to Norwegian training as other foreign nationals with a work and residence permit in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1382	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-22.ana.ud405e1402	The President assumes that the Right Party, the Advance Party Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
