ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e28	The representative of Åsa Elvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e34	On behalf of the representative, Mr Ryan and myself, I would like to make a proposal to establish a value creation programme for the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e39	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e42	On behalf of Henrik Rød, Øystein Hedstrøm, Arne Sortevik, Thore A. Nistad and myself, I propose to ask the Government to promote changes in the Road Traffic Act, so that there will be a ban on transporting schoolchildren and young people standing by school bus.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e47	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e50	On behalf of Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to propose a temporary suspension of the implementation of the monopoly on the operation of vending machines, in order to secure the revenues of the voluntary organisations until the ESA has concluded the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e55	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e59	On behalf of the representative Øyvind Vaksdal and myself, I propose to make an overall plan for the possible construction of wind turbines in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e64	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e87	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Per-Kristian Foss State Council Einar Steensnæs State Council Svein Ludvigsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e106	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. The government has presented a proposal for tax reform. It is a proposal that is double unsocial. It's unsocial because there's less money for pensions, for care for the elderly, for school and for other important tasks we should fund together over the years that come, and it's unsocial because the most prosperous get the most tax relief. The ministry's own figures show that the 10 pst. The richest gets 27 times more in the relief of the tax than the 10 pst. at least. It's unsocial. The Labour Party believes that money for good retirement, safe care for the elderly and good school is more important than a lower tax for those who already have the most. I was surprised at how unsocial the proposal was, until I read an interview with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, who said that the profile is good, and that the Workers' Party is too preoccupied with social distribution in terms of taxes. My question is: does the Minister of Finance agree with the Secretary of State that the Workers' Party is too preoccupied with social distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e117	Yeah, and in the crazy places. Tax reform that contributes to growth provides opportunities for better distribution policies and for a stronger focus on important welfare systems. I'm surprised by the Workers' Party's reaction to the tax reform, considering two things. One is that the Labour Party in Stortinget has come to terms with the need for tax reform, i.e. a recognition that today's tax system is not sufficient and not fair. Nevertheless, one is now the most important defender of today's tax system. The second is a violent response to a cautious reduction in the marginal tax rate below 50 p.p., which was where the marginal tax rate was as a result of the 1992 tax reform, where the Workers' Party was a driver. I do not recognise the working party of the 1990s in the responses to the tax reform we have presented, among other things. as a result of a proposal by the Workers' Party itself, which dates back to the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e126	We had a much more social setup in the 1990s. We're going to vote in favour of a change in the tax system, but for a social change, not for social tax relief, as the government is now adding. Otherwise, it is typical the Right always to be for what the Workers' Party was ten years ago, but never be for what the Workers' Party is for now. One of the most unsocial aspects of the proposal is the opening of a tax, a tax, on the movement of apartments in housing laws. My question is, can the Government now rule out the imposition of a document fee on the disposal of apartments in housing laws? The fact that there is now uncertainty about what the government thinks about it, I believe is unfortunate. The government should make it clear that it is not possible to impose a document fee on the placing on the market of apartments in housing laws. Can the Minister for Finance answer yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e133	The government's proposal is for treatment in Stortinget, and from our side we say that a number of questions are unanswered when it comes to funding the reform. We want to study part of the deduction arrangements more closely, including: because some of them have unfortunate social arrangements, i.e. that they are used more by people with higher incomes than by people with lower and medium incomes. This is why it is important for the funding of the reform. So I don't want to start shooting at what answers we're going to give to different parts of the implementation of the tax reform in individual budgets in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e138	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e141	It is quite alarming that the Minister of Finance and the Government are able to be very clear that they are promising a reform that will give $12 billion in tax bills, while they are not at all ready to tell who is going to join and pay that bill. It has now been confirmed by the Minister of Finance. I do not think it is an acceptable answer the Minister of Finance has given in this round. Does this mean that there is also a great deal of uncertainty about which tax reliefs the government is now actually promising, if it is such that you do not dare to talk out loud about who is going to be with and pay the bill, among other things. by removing important deductions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e148	I'm also surprised, because the Workers' Party has, knowingly, been behind an assessment of all the deductions, whether they work socially and on the assumption. Prominent representatives of the Workers' Party sat in the Skauge Committee and have agreed to an assessment of all the deduction arrangements, with ex-post jubilant opinions as well. I am surprised that the Workers' Party is now protecting a tax system for which they have asked for reform. I'm still left as a big question mark in relation to what the Workers' Party will do when they have now said that the sharing model is unsocial, but still argues as if you want to maintain the sharing model in today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e156	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e159	It's a little strange about this reform called tax reform, but it's not really a tax reform. It is a comprehensive tax package for those who have the most in Norwegian society. You only show one side of the medal. So you don't show where to cut down, you show where to give out. Of these 12 billion to be spent in tax relief, the total is 8.5 on top taxes. That means that eight out of ten women don't get to enjoy this at all. It is mainly men my age and Per-Kristian Foss who will benefit from this tax relief. If you really think what I noticed is that the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance said, that SV and the Workers' Party are too preoccupied with distribution, the question is, what are we going to do with the tax system if we're not going to use it to redistribute wealth for the benefit of most of us? Isn't one of the main aims of the tax system actually to finance the common good in society for all of us, not just to finance the welfare state? So the 12 billion that the government will give in tax relief is going to hit them in the Norwegian society that has the most initially. Does Per-Kristian Foss really think that distribution is not an important issue in tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e168	Yes, the Government believes so, and I mean it. The most important thing to do in the allocation of this reform is, in fact, to correct the bias between those who have only employee income and those who have the opportunity to distribute their income so that most are taken out as capital income, at a significantly lower tax rate, for private consumption. It will come to an end after this model. I have registered that, sir. Djupedal is also a strong supporter of what is called the shareholder model, and at the same time he will not lower the tax rates on employee income so that they come in line with dividends taken out for private consumption. Then you can't remove the split model. There is still a problem that SV has not given an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e175	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e178	After all, the aim of any tax reform must be to correct weaknesses in the tax system. We disagree on how big the deficits are, but getting a tight tax hole that makes the richest get away with little or no taxes is one of the purposes. One of the things that the government is now proposing, and that the opposition has been doing for a long time, is reintroducing dividend taxes. Fortunately, the Government proposes it, even though it has said in the past that it is totally out of date, that it is a totally unacceptable double taxation. Now Foss says that it actually contributes to some of the best distribution in the entire proposal. But is it necessary to compensate for those who have the most already, by finally introducing dividend tax, as it is done, because it is those with the highest tax that gets the most relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e185	Neither has the representative Morten Lund taken the point. If we're going to remove the divisional model, which I also realized Morten Lund is a strong opponent of, we have to do something about the difference between the tax rates. Otherwise, a major division problem remains, leading to social injustice. Then you have to do something about it. I do not think that the term ‘disadvantages in the tax system’ is very striking in the analysis that Morten Lund has otherwise had by the tax system, namely that when the majority of the income is paid by men, the majority of the taxes are also paid by men, and therefore the majority of the tax reliefs on men also fall. I think that is a very special analysis. The wealth tax could have been analysed using the same method. You would have found out that there is a very similar tax, because there is a co-tax between spouses or partners. In this way, it is distributed equally to the sexes. But some interesting tax policy analysis is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e194	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e197	I also have a question for the Minister of Finance. Through the national transport plan and in the newspaper of the last few days, we have been able to read that the government will build 28 new toll stations, and at the latest today that there is a proposal for a completely new road tax. I am aware that this is the Minister of Transport's area, but what is the Minister of Finance's area is all the other car charges, and we hear very little about that from the Government. So now they're talking about building so many new toll stations that we might have to spend NOK 13 billion more on tolls in the next few years, while at the same time the state is charging almost NOK 35 billion from the drivers for one-off, annual, re-registration, petrol, diesel, etc. But here the government is not talking about the need to make changes so that there is consistency between what the drivers pay for, and what they get in relation to increased road construction. Does the Minister for Finance consider it reasonable for these new toll charges to come to the top of the existing charging system, as it is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e208	At least I see no reason why the annual car tax should be reduced, for example, because you want to provide a road project by using charges locally – or perhaps several places. I can't see any relationship between the two relationships. I record that there is some local resistance to using bombs. But I also record that in the Progress Party, at least in the West, it has spread a certain degree of pragmatism. The rapporteur, Mr Søviknes, says that in the choice between waiting or accelerating a project, it might be better to bet on some degree of user payment. I think the drivers will accept it when they see the projects coming – and come forward earlier in line than they would otherwise. Otherwise, the total road and car charges are also involved in paying things other than road costs. As is well known, sufficient traffic and motorism lead to social costs other than road construction and maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e213	The frustration around the districts is due to the fact that the state does not provide enough money for road construction and that, in the absence of roads, desperate efforts are being made to look for other solutions, even if tolls are involved. The Progress Party is against the creation of new toll stations, because we believe that the state is charging more than enough already in the form of different car-related charges. But according to what the finance minister now says, I can only see that the government thinks it is entirely right that we should keep the other car charges as they are. Then the government de facto acknowledges that these are purely fiscal charges that are levied from one group in society to spend the money for a number of other purposes. You just have to take note of that. But that is not what the Minister of Finance said in the debate after debate while he himself was a magnificant and repeatedly suggested to reduce various car-related charges, because they were considered unreasonable. So I'm going to register that right over here has done a gigantic reverse operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e220	This gives me the opportunity to recall what former member of the board of directors of FrP Torgeir Höien said, that every time one manages to increase a cost, one reduces the possibilities for tax relief. There are certain contexts in the policy that mean you can't say yes, both of them, all the time. I think this is something you should bear in mind, and I have recorded in particular that the Progress Party in the budgetary negotiations where you have been close to the Government has given priority in many ways. Then it seems to me that a priority has not been given to reducing car charges, but it has been reduced in other important areas, not least to get a budget that hangs together. Otherwise, there is not a correct representation by the representative of my post, when she says that car charges are levied to use the money in other areas. It's not a proper representation of what I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e228	There will be follow-up questions – Gjermund Hageseter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e231	Bombards appear all over the country, and they also apply to the West. Only to transport a wagon train from Trondheim to Stavanger via Ålesund and Bergen must one out with approx. 5 500 kroner each way at ferry and toll costs. If you want to return to Trondheim, your return costs the same amount. Then there is a cost of NOK 11000 for ferry and toll, and these costs are in addition to the costs of wages, high car charges and high fuel charges. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Is not the Minister of Finance concerned about the competitive growth of such high extra costs in Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e238	Well, I'm concerned about the entire cost level throughout Norwegian business, and as the representative's question indicated, there are other factors than just tolls that count in the overall cost level. It is important to keep cost levels at a competitive level, even in relation to other countries. It is then to reduce transport costs an important part of it. That is what you do, among other things. by building new roads, which enable transport to emerge, in similar ways as they do in our neighbouring country. It has something to do with the weight and size of cars, and of course it has something to do with transportation time, which goes back to compensation of employees. So it's like building roads a contribution to getting costs down in the long term. When you use the term "toll stations" to show up, it's probably not that simple. It is then assumed that they have local support, including from the politicians of the Progress Party, who can sometimes see that a temporary payment of a fee can be worth the price in order to get a better standard on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e245	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e248	It is necessary to ask a little more about the so-called tax reform – which is not a tax reform, but a tax package for those who have the most – because there are so many uncertainties in this. So you can definitely determine which entry point you want for top taxes, but you can't say what deductions you want to remove. It is estimated that a deduction of between 5 and 6 billion kroner should be removed, without saying anything about what deductions it is. Yesterday it was found that the Minister of Finance would not insist that the trade union deduction was one of those that was considered to be removed. Let me then ask about another deduction that very many common nordics enjoy, namely the deduction for the elderly and the disabled. 18 360 kroner may be deducted by most older people over 70 years of age, and by most older people over 67 years of age, in some distribution fractions. This subtraction suggests that the Skage Committee be removed. I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance quite specifically, since he can be specific about the tax relief to those who have the most: can he now assure the Stortinget and the Norwegian people that the special deduction for the elderly and the disabled should not be moved forward in the treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e255	Once again, when a matter lies in Stortinget, it is perhaps I who should ask what the representative himself thinks. Does the representative believe that all deductions should be retained, or does the representative see the possibility of any deductions from the tax system being changed, removed or converted into a grant scheme? Since there's one question left, there's probably an opportunity to answer it. I can say that the deduction for the elderly and the disabled I don't see it as topical to remove, because it will involve a bias in the taxation of pensioners who, if you just remove it, are not defendable. Otherwise, it is wrong that the entry point for top taxes is locked. The representative has not read his document. It is the tax rate on the top tax that has to be linked to the tax rate on dividends taken for private consumption. It's something other than the point of entry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e262	I'm recording that the Council of State doesn't think it's pleasant to be confronted with these things. What has been presented to the Stortinget is correct for the Stortinget to be dealt with, and it is the Stortinget to take decisions. But it's the government that's put part of the premise that Stortinget actually has to deal with. 12 billion dollars in tax relief, which is essentially going to hit those who have the most, is the government's starting point. Then you're going to take $6 billion off, you're going to deduct the union allowance, you're going to deduct the elderly and you're going to pay off, and you're going to take a lot of other deductions that the average man and woman actually have. You don't say anything about this. But you have a big bag post, a big unknown bag post, and it's not without reason that very many elderly, very many disabled and very many who have trade union deductions, are concerned about what the government really thinks. Then they come naturally enough to the Storting, and it is clear that the Storting should make wise decisions, I get hope, about this. My challenge is: what does the Minister of Finance think, who has actually presented this to the Stortinget? My answer to this is quite clear: the Minister of Finance has intended to remove the old-age and disability allowance and turn it into another deduction, which is less accurate for the elderly. If not, he would have said to the Stortinget that yes, we should continue this deduction. I think the Minister of Finance has a big explanation problem with the country's pensioners on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e271	The representative, Djupedal, has an explanation problem here and now. How he can read in my mind what he has just said is a mystery to me. It doesn't look like any of what I've been thinking, to say it like that – nor about taxes. The imagination is quite great when it comes to giving us opinions, but I record that the representative Djupedal has no idea of a matter that lies in Stortinget. I am waiting with excitement for what SV will propose of increased, reduced or removed deductions. We have said that we will come back to this in each budget in the future, to finance an overall tax package in a social way that gives tax relief to all income groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e276	There will be four follow-up questions – first Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e279	It is indeed going to be a strange tax reform when all the issues that are unpleasant to the Minister of Finance are to be postponed to a later date. Then we no longer have a tax reform, but some selected flags for the Right, to deal with in the Stortinget. We are in the situation that the Minister of Finance one day challenges some deductions and the other day says he's going to make peace with someone, as he just said. It must be appropriate if we are to move forward in this debate, that the Minister of Finance is clear about what deductions are to be discussed and what deductions are to be saved. If there are any deductions that the Minister of Finance wants to make peace, I think he should do it now. If we don't have to assume that all the deductions that are not specifically mentioned in what is up to the discussion can fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e286	I can confirm that the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken is free to discuss absolutely all deductions. The representative Bjørlo Lysbakken and his party are also free to believe what you want about absolutely all the deductions that have been added. Moreover, the procedure is quite parallel to that followed by the Workers' Party in the treatment of the tax reform in 1990-92: first a communication on the principles of tax reform and, secondly, a concreteisation of the different rates, deductions, etc. in a separate proposal in relation to the State budget. Similarly, we're going to move forward now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e292	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e295	I have a feeling that the Minister of Finance's thoughts about the tax reform will remain a mystery to the Stortinget. The Financial Committee is now in the process of communicating significantly in writing with the Ministry of Finance on many of the weaknesses, shortcomings and gaps in the tax reform that the Government does not respond to. The answers given to our questions by the Council of State to the Finance Committee are nothing more than that the Government will return to them at the appropriate time. It doesn't make it easier for the Storting to deal with this so-called tax reform to the Government, if the Government doesn't want to explain to the Storting what it really wants, where it really is, and how much relief it's actually going to give to the different parts, both in terms of people's taxes and food taxes. At least that does not make it easier for the Financial Committee to come up with a good solution and a broad consensus, unless the Government knows where to put this tax reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e300	There is a lot of evidence that all representatives in this room have come to understand what the government will do, after the attacks on tax reform, because you can't attack anything you don't know what is. My impression is that the Workers' Party and, to some extent, the Advance Party have also attacked some of the principles of tax reform, and these are the principles that have now been invited to discuss. Otherwise, I have read all the answers the Ministry of Finance has given. My impression is not that the pages of the answers and tables are unanswered, but we answer what is asked for. Sometimes you add e.g. the calculation of the incidence tables, i.e. efficiency tables for different tax groups, and asks for one or the other tax increase or reduction, and then receives answers. The problem is that every now and then this is also reflected as the Ministry of Finance's opinion. You get answers as you ask, and that's not necessarily the Ministry of Finance's answer, because we say that tax rates and deductions, and the amount of them, are set out in each budget in the years to come. The first round is the 2005 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e307	Jens Stoltenberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e310	Firstly, it can be discussed whether it is appropriate to apply the concept of tax reform to what has now been presented by the Government, because there are relatively small system changes, while there are many of the major tax reliefs. They are numerically fixed, and the Government boasts of all the tax rates to be reduced and all those to be reduced. What is not numerically fixed is where this money is to be taken from, who is to pay, who is to get less. But you're referring to a long list, which sums up a total of about NOK 6 billion, which is the amount the government thinks should be collected into increased taxes from a number of people, such as commuting deductions, trade union deductions and increased taxes on housing apartments when they are traded. Then it is understandable that many in the Greatness think it is nice. You're very good at quantifying all the good things, but you refuse to quantify the funding, the negatives, in the proposal for changes to the tax system. That's why you ask questions. We have a government that is very concrete in some areas, but refuses to be concrete in the more problematic and difficult areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e318	We are absolutely as concrete as the Workers' Party when a communication on tax reform was presented in its time. The working party was not concrete until they made the proposal on tax reform at the beginning of the 1990s. Moreover, I have to say that a tax reform that eliminates taxes on wealth, introduces taxes on dividends collected for private consumption, but protects dividends invested in industry and which eliminates the tax on housing, must be said to be a quite comprehensive reform, taking into account that it also eliminates the sharing model, a model the Workers' Party has repeatedly attacked, but now it is clearly the strongest defender of. It is no wonder that one can be confused when comparing the Labour Party's policies from the 1990s on the tax side to the 2000s, where there are partly entirely conflicting arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e325	Yes, there are many relationships that are suitable to contribute to some confusion. The biggest confusion is how a minority government has intended to implement a tax settlement in the spring, starting with the government's representatives now occupying the parties on the Stortinget. It is said, and it is true, that the Ministry of Finance gives all the calculations to be made, and then one outside says that none of the calculations must be taken too seriously, because the Government has not made the final proposals with regard to the 5-6 billion DKK that affect very many of us in relation to deductions and other proposals. So it's a fuzzy tax report, with no concrete proposals of between 5 and 6 billion dollars, and a government that instead of inviting the Storting to attack the front, as the Minister of Finance does today. The question is then quite simply, when no better answers are given than today: how does this minority government intend to make an impact on our tax reform? How have they intended to achieve it, and with whom, in such a material matter, with the tone being given today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e332	If you look at the Central Party's policy – I can't really talk about other parties when I'm asked by the Center Party – the Center Party has been an opponent of the sharing model. The centre batch has been the subject of a dividend tax that does not work negatively in relation to business. This dividend tax does not. It works positively by the fact that it's a bottom-up deduction, one might call it, for moderate dividends, and there are exemptions from dividends invested in the same company's sector. It should be in line with what the Senterpartiet has previously meant in tax and industrial policy. In this way we've come a little bit on the way, even though I'm recording that there won't be a majority of it. But I also record that other parties have been strong followers of a system that removes the split model and that steps down and gradually removes the property tax. So we should be pretty far on the way. Otherwise, it is not the case that any of the answers sent to the Centre Party or to other parties from the Ministry of Finance are provided with the supplement that they should not be taken seriously. They are equipped with a supplement that these calculations are carried out on the basis of the question they have received, and that is something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e339	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e342	Through several questions about the tax proposals promoted by the Government, we must at least be able to say to the Minister of Finance that he is consistent. He is consistent in the sense that he does not answer the Storting to the questions asked about the back of the medal, as far as the Government's proposals are concerned. In my opinion, the Government is thus inviting the Storting to adopt tax changes almost blindly. We therefore need to adopt important changes in the tax system without having an overview of the consequences, who is being affected, and in what way. But my question goes to a comment that the Minister of Finance had in a previous answer. He pointed to Torgeir Höien. I understood that the Minister of Finance agreed with what he was quoting from Höien, that every time the Storting increases a cost, the possibilities of reducing the tax are reduced. Then it is tempting to ask: What does the Minister of Finance really mean? He has earlier here today claimed that doing the opposite, i.e. reducing the tax, does not at all weaken the ability of the single fund to ensure enough for expenditure on pensions, health and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e349	I think you have to look at the difference between the impact on one year's budget and the impact on growth in the long term, for example. the following year, and the change in behaviour resulting from a more sensible tax system, a tax system such as: are more competitive in relation to other countries: reduced and subsequently non-proprietary taxes, as is the case in a number of other social-democratic countries, a dividend tax model which does not take all the dividends together but which ensures non-tax on moderate dividends and on dividends reinvested in the corporate sector, as is the case in a number of other countries, most recently proposed in Finland with a social-democratic centre-coal government. So this should ensure that there is a reform that is definitely going in the European direction, in line with what the Labour Party has also wanted in the past. I have no illusion that by dealing with the tax reform, we are going to agree with any future tax change in the system, i.e. the individual budgets. But the Workers' Party should at least set up and say something about the principles, if not these three principles: are you in order to reduce the taxes on wealth? Is it to remove the sharing model? Is the dividend tax model proposed by the Government? None of the questions that have been asked so far, or comments from the Workers' Party, have answered some of the fundamental questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e357	It is of course that during the discussion of the matter in Stortinget, the Labour Party will deal with all the proposals and give our answer to it. The problem is that the Government today, with the Minister of Finance of the United Kingdom, is that the parties are free to discuss the proposals they would like to discuss, while questions about what deductions are to be removed, which is an important financing of the tax reform presented by the Minister of Finance, are not answered as to what thoughts the Government is doing about the same. This makes the matter very complicated, and my assessment is that the Stortinget is invited to deal with this matter without having an overview of the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e362	I answered the question whether you are free to assess the deductions, that yes, of course the Stortinget is free to do so. The government has said for its part that we will return to each budget after an assessment of all the deductions, in line with the vote of the Skauge Committee, where the former State Secretary of the Labour Party in the Ministry of Finance is also sitting and has given the same advice. With regard to the three main principles set out, in relation to dividend taxes, in relation to the divisional model and in relation to property taxes, I note that the Workers' Party still does not even have any fundamental answers to the relationship with these forms of taxation, in particular given that in the 1990s and up to now there have been countries that have gone in a different fiscal direction from Norway in these areas, among others. by removing the taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e369	There will be three follow-up questions – first Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e372	I think it's necessary to remind the finance minister that he's in the Stortinges Question Time. That means that the representatives of big business ask questions to the Minister of Finance, and then the Minister of Finance will answer. It is not that the Minister of Finance is here to ask questions to the Stortinget. That's not how Storting's Question Time is. What's the problem is that the government is now discovering a fundamental contradiction in its message, because when the Progress Party went in to grant more money to the roads, the Per-Christian Foss replied: No, we can't afford more money to the roads, because then there will be less money to the tax haven. When the Workers' Party says, "We can't spend so much money on taxpayers' bills, because then there will be less money on roads, pensions and schools," the government answers, "No, there's no problem, because if we reduce the tax rates, there will be an increase in tax revenue. So now the government has to decide. Is it the case that lower tax rates give lower tax revenue? Of course, the answer to that question is yes. Then there's a context, and then we can't spend the same money twice. When the government spends DKK 12 billion on lower taxes, there will be less money for important purposes such as roads, defence, pensions and care for the elderly. This is a very important question to get a clear answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e383	The question was not whether there was more money. Of course, every year in the budget, the government has granted more money. But I tried to suggest to another representative that there are certain links between expenditure and income. As a result, in each budget, the Government has shown that, within the framework of a responsible budget, it also provides for increased welfare in key areas such as health and care for the elderly, as well as for road development in another area, tax relief. Otherwise, it's not entirely unknown – I'm not going to ask questions now – but I just want to remind the Workers' Party that they also have a past where they have actually suggested and suggested some tax reliefs. Last Stoltenberg was Minister of Finance, he proposed two quite masculine tax concessions, to put it this way, namely relief in the petrol tax and relief in the top tax. It is still possible to imagine and implement tax relief within a socially sound overall budget. But all in all, perhaps my suggestion was when I referred to Torgeira Höien.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e392	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e395	There's been a pretty interesting round in Stortinget today, because what we're noticing is that the Minister of Finance is on the defensive and challenges the Stortinget as to what the Stortinget means. I can assure Foss of that, after his many years here in the Storting, that the Storting is going to express, of course. This season is about what we're asking the government about what they mean. I am a little surprised that the Minister of Finance chose such an offensive tone, that it has no answer to it, it has no response from the Workers' Party. We are now dealing with this in the Storting Financial Committee. The Minister of Finance knows that very well. Our starting point is all these black holes in the Government's own tax notice to the Storting, big black holes that very many people actually depend on. Why does the Government not want to show cards in this regard, while they can show cards in what, in the Government's view, is the good bit in what they call tax reform? That's why it's necessary for us to know what you really mean. Now you add up to $12 billion in tax relief. 8.5 of these billions are top taxes. So that means that people who have over average income pay taxes, mainly men. Medieval men of Per-Kristian Foss’ and my age will benefit from this. But that also means that all of the bottom ones on the ladder that have a deduction are not going to know anything. That is why I have to ask again: does the Minister of Finance really think that this is a tax reform, or is it really just a comprehensive tax return with tax relief, which is one of the Flags of the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e404	There is both a reform and an indication of what relief should be given. When the tax reform was addressed in 1992, there were similar indications of relief in connection with the reform, to a lesser extent. But what I don't expect, of course, is that SV here should set up and agree to tax reliefs, a party that has proposed tax increases in all contexts. Should I have a bit of a small appeal to SV in conclusion, that's not a question, but a kind of prayer or appeal, it had to be that SV had mercy on ordinary owners of dwellings by participating in the removal of the benefit tax on dwellings, because there is a form of tax that is not at all a tax on something that represents the tax capacity of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e411	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e414	I, like the representative Stoltenberg, want to remind the Minister of Finance that he is in the Stortinges Question Time. It is not that the thinner the arguments and answers the Minister of Finance has, the more he can conceal it with increasing arrogance in his answers. I expect the Minister of Finance to answer the questions related to the tax reform that the depositors have. In the case of the deductions, the Government will not answer. On the other hand, what the government writes in its communication on tax reform is that the overall deductions amount to nearly NOK 6 billion. So that's not small money! But these six billions mean that the Minister of Finance should hang and hover, both for the Storting and for the Norwegian people, in terms of what the Government intends to do to them at some point. It can't be called a responsible reform when it's going to be completely uncertain, completely blue for everyone, how the government intends to deal with these $6 billion. I believe that the Government and the Minister of Finance should give a much clearer answer as to the direction in which they should go.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e423	I record that I have answered all the questions that have been asked. The Progress Party has asked questions about how we will deal with different deductions, and then I have replied that there is a review we will carry out, with a view to getting back to it in the individual budgets. It is similar to the way tax reforms have been carried out in the past. When a tax reform was implemented with effect from 1992, no response was received to what would be in the budgets for 1993, 1994 and 1995, so that is not new. I will be very sensitive to the proposals, decisions and comments made by the Stortinget and the majority of the Stortinge, both in terms of the deductions to be removed, which to be converted and which to be permanently protected. I haven't been given many clues about it in this debate, but I didn't expect it either. It is, of course, when processing the setting that it will come. Then we must be responsive to what comes from a majority, including the Advance Party. But I would remind you that such tax relief must also be financed in each budget within a sound framework of the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e435	Higher taxes, as suggested by the Minister of Finance. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e442	No! No!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e447	This is not a cause for supplementary questions. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e452	I have a question for the Minister of Finance about taxes. Ideally, the Minister of Finance wants to talk about tax relief, and that's what I'm going to address. The government will give NOK 15 billion in tax bills on employee income, NOK 11 billion to men and a total of DKK 4 billion to women. It's the government's own number. The government's own figures say there are 300,000 men who get over NOK 10,000 in tax bills, and 60,000 women. Economic equality between women and men in Norway is progressing, but it is progressing at snail speed. What the government is now proposing is a stopover and a trousers backwards. The difference in net wages and salaries for women and men increases by NOK 4000 on the basis of the proposal, if adopted. It's a huge amount compared to what's been won in recent years. The question is then: why does the Government intend to use the tax reform to increase the differences between women and men?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e461	The issue is relatively insane in the sense that in Norway we have income-related taxes, not gender-related taxes. Everyone looks at the usual income tables that there is a difference in income for men and women. There is a difference in the work through the life cycle of men and women, and in all transfers we have above the state budget, there is a difference between men and women in the sense that some transfers, for example, are made. goes mainly to male professionals. But I've never heard the representative Lund analyse the agricultural transfers from the angle that most people go to men. I keep that with the representative, because it would have been a completely crazy analysis of business transfers. You could, for example: analysed the wealth tax and found that it was distributed exactly equally between men and women, as it is distributed in this way. But it does not say anything about equality that on paper it is equal to the taxation of men and women through the taxes on wealth. So I'm actually going to recommend a slightly different approach to a tax relief analysis or tax increases. It makes little sense to analyse it just from a gender perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e468	This isn't crazy. That's the government's facts I'm talking about. I find it a little strange that the Council of State does not stand up with a little more pride in the effects of its proposals. Why doesn't he say that so many billions will you rich men get, and yet there will be some crumbs left for those who earn 250,000 kroner or 150,000 kroner, just as the Right has promised? He could also say that we think it is OK that women lag behind through this reform. It's all right for us when we achieve the other thing we want. It has been said from the Government that the dividend tax, the property tax and the benefit tax on dwellings will rectify this, but in a response to the Stortinget it appears that those with high incomes are also the winners there. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Minister of Finance confirm the accuracy of the Ministry of Finance's figures, dated 20 April of this year, which shows that reduced taxes on wealth, reduced taxes on housing and dividends also provide the most tax relief for those with high incomes?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e477	I can generally confirm that those who pay the most tax will also receive the largest share of tax relief, with some exceptions. Some people get tax incentives on dividends, because the dividend tax is expected to get a profit of about NOK 3 billion in total. So someone would have to pay more tax. According to that analysis – without the Central Party having asked for it – there is enough reason to believe that there are men who will also receive tax increases in that area. But there is therefore no more female participation in employment, which is at the root of these distortions, of the elimination of taxes on wealth, of the elimination of taxes on housing, or of the elimination of taxes on wealth in housing. In the case of property taxes, there is well reason to believe that part of the pensioners who pay property taxes on their dwellings – there is 40 pst. of the total proceeds paid by pensioners – women who have large dwellings or large bank deposits, as such, are taxed quite heavily also through the taxes on wealth. But I believe in a way that the Central Party's traditional approach to nutrition to taxation would have been a more sensible way of analysing the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e484	There will be two follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e487	The finance minister says he has answered all the questions, but he does not! He has not answered my previous question about how the government has intended to achieve a settlement in the Storting, and with the tone the council of state takes in the Storting today, it gets left as an open question after this questioning. I note that the Minister of Finance obviously does not see it as a political issue that 1.7 million women receive no greater tax relief than 150 000 men. In fact, a reservation is made by the Ministry of Finance, and that is what I am going to ask the Minister of Finance. State Secretary Børmer said in the daily newspaper yesterday that the figures from the Ministry of Finance must be taken with a reservation regarding the distribution effects, because the Government will come back with the final proposals at a later date. So the question is, does it mean that the government in the autumn will come back with proposals that will reduce the unfortunate distribution effects of these tax proposals so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e494	What has been answered is based on the Central Party number. It is the centre party that has asked in the tables to have the effect of different types of tax relief. So that's not the government's number. In the end, the distribution effects will depend on, among other things: enters into session bottom deductions, as notified by the Government. The extent to which deductions can increase is related to both general government budget financing and to the possible amount of deductions. That's why it's completely correct when you don't know the final distribution tables. Otherwise, I have answered the question of settlement, for example. count a number of good old central party points in support of the reform that the Government has now presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e501	Heidi Grande Røys – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e505	Because most taxes are paid by men, tax relief benefits men, said the Minister of Finance instead, and seems to be very happy that it is. Is not the Minister of Finance at all interested in looking at why this is the case? Does not have e.g. related to women being found in low-skilled jobs, to a large extent in part-time settings? Doesn't the Minister of Finance have any ambitions to be able to do anything about it? I would say that the Government has a unique chance in the tax reform now and in the pension reform later this year to actually do something about it – give women incentives to work more, by providing tax relief at the bottom and putting forward a pension reform that does not do 70 pst. of them to the minimum pensioners. This will also lead women to increase their labour supply. Both the Minister of Finance and the Department of Finance are concerned that we need people in work, to keep people in work longer, and it is the women who can provide the nation with that supply of work. But why is the Government so totally uninterested in seeing the reforms in the light of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e512	I'm not satisfied with the situation. The search for women and men for different professions is very different. We have professional groups that are too much dominated by men, and we have the opposite, professions dominated by women. There has been a tendency for professions where women are seeking to become low-wage workers. You don't solve this problem through the tax system. A tax system reflects the income conditions of a society. This tax reform has an essential role to play in contributing to growth in the number of jobs, including: by redistributing the dividend tax, removing the property tax and removing the sharing model. It will increase an overall supply of work, and it will make us more like other countries, that is, strengthen us in competition. It is for the benefit of both women and men, but in this context in particular for women.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e517	We're going to go to the next main question, and then we'll see if we get time for more.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e520	Since we have received so few answers, I think we should change the Council of State. I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. We have registered again that Iceland meets goodwill from the Norwegian side with the threat of entering the protection zone and fishing Norwegian springing herring, which they are not entitled to. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Fisheries whether Norway has intended to continue to be indebted to Iceland on such questions, especially when the Norwegian herring herring is involved, which is now not in the Icelandic zone, and on which Iceland should not have a quota. They're threatening to get into the protection zone and get ready. Does the Norwegian Government intend to continue to be indebted, or does it intend to stop?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e527	I assume that the reference to replacing the Council of State only concerned the question. With regard to this extremely complex issue, which concerns the management of Norwegian culprit herring and the distribution between the individual parties, we must therefore note that we have not reached a five-party renewal agreement with the direct countries, as we say, partners of herring last year or this year. So this herring is in the Norwegian zone, which says we should have a share of 70 pst. or more. We have a share of 57 pst, based on an agreement that was concluded at the end of the 1990s. There is a significant imbalance that we have tried to improve through negotiations. Last year, we did not reach a five-party agreement with Iceland, but we reached an agreement with the Faroe Islands and the EU that resulted in Norway receiving 61 pst. We must note that this year's negotiations have not led forward. We have not reached a five-party agreement, and we have not reached an agreement with other countries. We have so far limited our fishing to the original five-party agreement, but there are assessments, including in the Government, about the future. One of the elements that has been introduced and to which reference is made is Iceland's behaviour, possibly in the protection zone, and the issues it is raising. I don't think I'm going to go further into speculation about the contacts and the negotiations that need to be carried out. This is a delicate issue in relation to other countries, and it is probably important that we do not have too much discussion of these assessments at this stage. So far, we've been carrying loads and bursts, Norway is going to have a bigger share, and we've challenged Iceland. That's the point we're starting to approach and see the consequences of now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e538	I understand that this is complicated. The question is whether we should continue to be as yielding as we have been to Iceland. The dirty hole agreement is also essentially only about giving Iceland all the advantages and Norway the backs. There were some people about it, but only the Progress Party voted against that agreement in the Stortinget. The current Foreign Minister, as at the time was a foreign policy spokesman for the Right, agreed with us initially, but he voted in favour of that agreement. My question was whether we intend to continue giving to Iceland what they're threatening to do, instead of sitting down to the negotiating table and getting some of the historical dishes. It's correct, as the council says, that Norway should have 70 pst., maybe 80 pst., of Norwegian springing herring from the behavioral pattern of herring. It is now apparent that Norwegian springing herring is not in the Icelandic zone, and Iceland will then threaten through. My question is, shall we continue to be so yielding, and shall we let ourselves be threatened to give up our right?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e545	The government has not let itself be threatened. That's exactly why we're in the situation that we haven't reached a five-party agreement, either last year or this year, that includes Iceland. That's precisely because we've been on the legitimate requirement. So it's that there's a dialogue going on about this issue right now, and I don't think it's right to go deeper into it than to point out that it's just Norway's position and not commitment that has brought us into the situation that is now, that we haven't got a five-party agreement. Iceland has not been able to press Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e552	There will be two follow-up questions – first Steinar Bastisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e555	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. Is it the government's goodwill and consideration of the five-party agreement that reduces the Norwegian quota to 57 pst. herring as a Norwegian share? Is that the goodwill, or are you forced to? I am fully aware that the negotiations will not take place in the storeroom, but it is to be expected that the quota that is Norway's share will be set up from 57 pst. Or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e562	I am dealing with the agreement that a previous government has negotiated and that resulted in Norway getting 57 pst. by Norwegian springing herring. What we can see is that belonging to the zone means that we should have a much greater share. This government addressed that problem immediately after I became Minister of Fisheries. As I pointed out, by running a hard line just assuming that we have a legitimate claim for a larger share, we did not achieve a renewed five-party agreement. And it's important that we have an international regime, which was agreed upon, because that's the way we can best prevent overfishing. But we have been able to see that Norway's steep line is based on a legal requirement, because zone belonging is a recognised principle in the allocation of fishing resources, not just Norwegian herring. However, Iceland has taken a different position and considers that, in this case, for this species, the relative weight of the zone shall not be assigned to the same weight as for other species.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e567	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e571	It was obviously a chess move to change the council. Although it is a difficult topic, it was possible to get answers. I could imagine challenging the Council of States a little bit as to whether it is possible, despite the fact that there are currently negotiations, to say a little about the consequences of possibly not reaching a five-party agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e578	There are two sets of consequences. One is that you can run a race without a five-party agreement, as we've done both last year and so far this year. It could have consequences in terms of the total withdrawal, because you do not have the same international consensus and the ability to respond if any country makes itself right in addition to the five-party agreement. From the Norwegian side, we have said that without a five-party agreement, we have based the distribution that was there, not to signal a free fishing on this species. We've done that bomb before – those who managed the herring – and we've experienced 25-30 years without herring fishing. It's important that we don't make that mistake one more time. The second consequence is, of course, the protection zone and Norwegian jurisdiction there. Here I look at various consequences that at this point I do not find it appropriate to go into detail, and I hope that is respect for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e585	Then the time for the oral question procedure is over, and we go over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e591	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, by Mr Inge Ryan to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has been removed. Question 6, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. Question 10, from the representative Arne Lyngstad to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research, who has been away. Question 15, from the representative of Mr Rudihagen to the Minister for Transport, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 16 and 17 from the representatives of Bjørgulf Froyn and Per Roar Bredvold, respectively, to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left. Question 18, from the representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed. Question 20, from the representative Heidi Sørensen to the Minister for the Environment, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e616	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: «It is possible for companies to establish VAT credit for business at the customs service. The company Moxy Engineering AS has previously applied for VAT credit, but has been refused. The reason is that the Chairman of the Board of Directors is English and lives abroad, and that the Customs Service sets a distinction between the collection of import VAT and the final payment of VAT by the County Tax Manager. Does the Council of State consider that the reasons for the refusal are in line with the use of VAT credit in business?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e625	As a general rule, VAT is payable on the importation of goods. However, traders may apply for a so-called customs credit — an interest-free credit on the payment of the VAT. The granting of credit depends on a general assessment of the individual applicant’s trust. The most central elements of this assessment are the entity's financial position and its experience in compliance with its contractual and regulatory obligations. I do not know the details of the specific matter, and I have been informed that it has only been dealt with in the external sector. However, on a general basis, it is difficult to see that the nationality and place of residence of the Chairperson could have an impact on the assessment of trust. If the application was rejected for such reasons, I would therefore recommend that the company appeal the decision to the Customs and Fee Directorate. In conclusion, I would like to point out that I have recently taken the initiative of the Customs and Tax Directorate to assess the possibilities to relax the conditions for obtaining customs credit for business importers who have the right to deduct the import VAT in their tax settlement with the County Tax Office. In these cases, there is only a temporary payment of a fee to the Treasury, since the money has to be refunded. In my opinion, it is desirable to ensure that the charging entities are burdened as much as possible with liquidity losses and capital costs during this interim period. It may appear that the current practice of customs credit rules should be changed somewhat in order to achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e639	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I consider the Minister of Finance to be very positive. The reason for the refusal that has become publicly known from Customs, the external establishment, is that the owner is of foreign origin. And if that's the case, this is quite discriminatory, with the international business we've gradually gotten here in the country. This is a newly established enterprise, with new owners, and it means a lot to this district that you can now get the business back on track. I perceive the Minister of Finance there that now Moxy should appeal to this case, and if it becomes such that it should gradually come to his table, I expect the Council of State to be positive in its treatment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e648	I have nothing to add in relation to my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e653	The answer is still very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e658	Then we go on in a positive tone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e664	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘As you know, the last deadline for submission of the tax return of the year is 30 April. While the tax authorities around the country have been sent the pre-filled declaration about. 1 month. before the expiry of that period, taxpayers in parts of the East have only been given two weeks to review and, where appropriate, to make additions and corrections before the expiry of that period. Does the Council of State consider this acceptable, or should clear rules or guidelines be laid down as to how long each taxpayer should have in order to review the declaration?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e673	It is important that the tax rate ensures that all taxpayers are provided with sufficient time to process their declarations before the surrender deadline. However, the production and dispatch process of the annual self-declaration is extensive and time consuming. The tax revenue is dedicated to providing sufficient response time to the public and the budget will have procedures to ensure that the tax return is taxed at least three weeks before the deadline for submission. I am pleased that the tax rate now introduces a guideline that says that three weeks should be a minimum response time for all taxpayers. In this there is a recognition that it was not satisfactory to send the document so that the response time for a large group of taxpayers was only approx. two weeks. We can assume that this arrangement won't be repeated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e682	I would like to thank you for the clear answer from the Council of State. Of course, three weeks is enough in most cases, and that's better than not having a clear deadline at all. Now it's like three weeks can be problematic anyway. Last year there were 65,000 who moved internally only in the municipality of Oslo. As a result, one year ago there were 12,000 returns. Some of the announcements came back because the taxpayer had not notified the move, some came back because there was a move just when the tax return was sent. It's as we know it's eight days you're wearing to report moving, from moving. My question to the Council of State is this: does the Council of State think it is right to provide additional taxes automatically when such conditions occur, or should the tax rate be a little liberal in relation to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e691	As the representative himself documented in his question, the majority of the cases in which tax returns are due to tax payers themselves, who have not notified the transfer. So in this case, it's a main problem. Where the move has been reported, but it has happened at such a late point that there has not been any progress towards knowledge, I expect the establishment to show sufficient liberality in applying for postponement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e696	I would like to thank you again for your answer. I have another supplementary question. This is based on the reason that the tax rate gave you no more than two weeks. Information director of the department, Lise Halvorsen, said that they did not want the declaration to be in the mailboxes of people during Easter days, when people were not at home. Then my question is: does the Council of State agree that it would have been unfortunate if the declaration had remained in the mailbox at Easter? My other question is whether the Council of State considers that the declaration contains such sensitive information that this could be a legal certainty risk. If so, does the Council of State wish to act in relation to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e705	I have no plans to change the declaration as to which information is to be provided. However, I hope that you will eventually pay less tax, but that is another thing. I guess that's not the sensitive thing. I'm going to register the answer of the tax administration. However, I think maybe they overestimate how many people actually travel away on Easter holidays, to say it like that. With the answer I have now given, I expect that the department has also taken a certain round with itself on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e712	Then we should have had question 3 from the representative John I. Alvheim. The President cannot see that neither the questioner nor the Council of State is present. The stork's taking a break. Expressed after a few minutes of stay
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e717	And then we're ready to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e723	My question goes to the Minister of Health: ‘According to a statement in the Evening Post for Sunday 18 April, free hospital choice has led to a patient flow from North Norway. In the same statement in the evening post, the director of the University Hospital in Tromsø says that he believes that some patients use the scheme and use it as a subsidised trip southwards. Is there evidence that patients use free hospital choice in the manner suggested by the hospital director at the University Hospital in Tromsø?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e732	Let me first say: Free hospital choice is a right that the patient has. The right to vote is free and applies throughout the country. The patient does not need to give any reason why one treatment site is chosen rather than another. However, there is every reason to believe that the right to vote is used when alternative sites are perceived to provide better or faster treatment. In this way, free hospital choice is also a challenge for health businesses. However, I expect them to see this as a positive challenge and as an instrument that will increase the quality of service. Individual healthcare companies must focus on their own service and quality in order to provide patients with an offer that is so good that they do not choose the hospital away. Whether patients have relatives and friends at the place they choose treatment, or they choose to go to the theater, I think that with respect for the individual's freedom, we should stay outside the documentation we have related to free hospital choice. However, I do not believe that you choose to go to a hospital to make use of a cultural offer or visit friends. There is no evidence of abuse of the scheme contrary to its intentions. However, what we know about free hospital choice is that for 2003 it is seen that there is a clearly larger proportion of the population in North Norway who choose treatment southwards than there are people southwards who go northwards. It concerns the management of UNN and Health Nord, because in some treatment areas there is a marginal population base in the north. In some areas, this trend is also seen where supply in the north has short waiting times. For Finnmark residents, the numbers show that the number of people who choose offers outside their own country has increased by more than 50 pst. However, these figures are small, but may give an indication of a development in which there is a need to follow closely — also because an increased patient flow out of the county and out of the country may help to weaken an already marginal operating base. However, this should not be used to undermine patients’ primary rights, including for me. Health Nord is working on these challenges, and the strategy for meeting these challenges is to make its own service more accessible and better quality and to develop a legitimately strong position in its own health region.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e745	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am particularly pleased that he underlines this with the patient's right to free hospital choice. I think it's pretty bad when the hospitals in North Norway criticize patients for using free hospital choices, which are both legal and legitimate. Because patients choose treatment at a hospital in South Norway, they are accused of adding up to a combination of treatment and vacation. This, in my view, is simply inconvenient. Health Nord has established very few agreements with private specialists. This could be one of the reasons why you travel south. The fact that travel expenses have now been transferred from the Rikstrøgdeverket to businesses will, of course, burden the budgets of Health Nord – a proposal that the Progress Party voted against. Finally, input-based funding has been reduced from 60 to 40 p.p., which also increases the cost to health businesses. Will the Minister for Health take initiatives towards Health Nord to conclude more agreements with private operators?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e756	As I said in my first answer, I share the assessment that the representative Alvheim now expresses, that it is the right of the patients that is the superior, and that must also be Health Nord's relationship and foundation. This means that their activity should be related to how they can do their services — including those they offer in cooperation with private individuals with whom they have contracts — more accessible and of a quality that makes them attractive to patients. I know that the management in Health Nord is very busy and working on it, and I trust that they are using the tools that are available, including what is involved in working with private people, to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e761	I have received an answer to what I asked for, and I do not need any further questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e766	In that case, the Council of State does not need additional answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e771	Then they're all satisfied, and we're going to go to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e778	I will raise the following questions to the Council of State: ‘The price of medicinal products is regulated by the State through very complex mechanisms such as: index price, regulation of the purchase price of pharmacies, pharmacy etc. in order to ensure control by the State of costs and to make patients more reasonable medicinal products. It may seem that these schemes are not working well enough. Does the Council of State see that one could better control the government's expenditure, a more efficient and simpler regulation for all parties, by setting the selling price of pharmacies by the State?»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e787	The state determines the maximum purchase prices of pharmacies, the maximum allowable margin for pharmacies at the purchase price and thus the maximum selling price from pharmacies. Under these maximum levels, operators are free to compete on price. The State is not only a regulator on the pharmaceutical market but also a purchaser, both through the hospitals and not least through the bladder prescription system. In cases where the maximum price regulation does not provide sufficiently low prices, it is natural for the country purchasing to award a price that the country is willing to pay, such as under the index price system, or by introducing tendering schemes, as is seen in the hospital sector. I share with the representative Kristoffersen's view that today's regulations in the field are appearing that complicated. A number of changes have been made in this area in recent years, contributing to complexity. A detailed review of the entire pharmaceutical policy will be carried out in the wake of a separate survey report for the autumn. The Ministry has gone a long way in working on this message and has received input from industry as well as from user organisations and other interested parties. In addition, the Ministry has ordered and received external investigations relating to the matters specifically asked by the representative Kristoffersen. I share with the representative Kristoffersen's desire to achieve a more appropriate and less complicated regulation of pharmaceutical prices. This issue will be included as a key issue in the forecasted forecast, so that the Storting will have the opportunity to discuss this issue in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e798	I understand and accept that the longer-term leadership in this area will be reviewed in the pharmaceutical notification that I myself have been asking for. However, pharmaceutical policy has considerable budgetary implications, which are important for both the state, the pharmacies and the pharmaceutical industry. As a populace, I have a duty and an interest to constantly ask and be up-to-date about whether we have a system that gives the population the lowest possible price of medicines. That is why my first supplementary question is: does the Minister of Health think that today's regulatory regimes are the best way to secure the lowest possible price?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e807	If the Minister of Health had thought that everything was very well, it would not have been necessary to carry out such a thorough and fundamental review of the whole field that I am now adding up. It is, in my view, a potential both for simplification and for a better mechanism of state regulation in this market than we have today. When I don't want to go into the individual questions in such an hour-long answer, it's because they belong in a whole series of contexts with other questions. I want to give the Storting the full opportunity to discuss this through the work on the message. I would also like to stress that we are going to take the budgetary consequences of the changes that are then being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e816	I'll be allowed to ask an additional question no. 2nd@item: inlistbox I believe that the deregulation of the pharmaceutical policy that we have largely agreed on in the Storting can be beneficial both for the expenses of the state and for the expenses of patients. What I'm concerned about now is that, through the issues we've had in Stortingen, we may too much be in and regulate the relations between the parties, from the pharmaceutical industry to the pharmacy, who sells the goods. Does the Minister of Health see that in a future system there may be opportunities to have less regulation within that framework, from the purchase of the medicinal product by the wholesaler to the sale of it in a pharmacy, and allow the parties themselves to better arrange their relations, but focus on the patient having the lowest possible price of the product he buys in the pharmacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e825	The focus, regardless of the regulatory regime, should be the lowest possible price and a guarantee of accessibility, both for the State, which is a major purchaser of medicines through the BIP and through the hospitals, and for the patient. It will be a main goal when we review the arrangements that we have today. What has proved to be a challenge, even though some intervention in the regulatory regimes has been agreed in the Storting, has been that there are adjustments in the market that are not overlooked when these changes are adopted. It's natural. On the other hand, it makes it necessary to evaluate and continually follow up to see that the goals that I understand the representative Kristoffersen and I agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e832	The next question is from Inge Ryan. Inge Ryan's not here, so we're going to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e838	This question, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e841	‘Many companies have done a lot of good work to market organically produced food. In Ålesund, a company has been successful and delivers to many schools, but it feels that they are being countered by the Information Office on Fruit and Vegetables. The authorisation system for becoming a supplier has also worked at random for several. Does the Council of State consider the school fruit scheme to be an instrument of its own to achieve the market objectives of the Organic Production and Marketing Action Plan?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e848	For health reasons, it is desirable to increase the consumption of fruit and vegetables, inter alia. through increased availability. It is an objective to approximately double this consumption in the Norwegian population. Research shows that dietary habits are formed early. Promoting increased use of fruit and vegetables is a key element in the work of health authorities, including: the school meal. This is the background to the School Fruit Scheme, which started as a pilot project in 1996. This is a measure to increase the availability and intake of fruit and vegetables among primary school students, based on health considerations. Until 1 January of this year, the scheme was financed from the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and administered by the State Agriculture Administration and the Information Office for Fruit and Vegetables. The responsibility has now been added to the Social and Health Directorate, which continues to cooperate with the Information Office on Fruit and Vegetables. A new regulation on subsidies for the price reduction of fruit and vegetables in primary schools was adopted on 1 April of this year. In this context, new guidelines on quality, sampling and supplier criteria have also been developed. It is mentioned that suppliers should also facilitate the placing on the market of Norwegian-produced and/or organic products in the scheme. Suppliers of organic products who comply with the requirements of the guidelines and wish to deliver to the scheme shall be assessed in the same way as other suppliers. The scheme may thus contribute to the placing on the market of organic products, based on the wishes of the schools/subscribers, without being a primary purpose of the scheme. There is no scientific evidence that there is a nutritional difference between organic and conventional fruits and vegetables. Nevertheless, the scheme may contribute to the achievement of the market objectives of the Organic Production and Placing on the market Action Plan. In my view, however, the scheme is not a significant contribution in this context, as it has not increased the consumption of organic products as its main objective. That supplier of organic products was originally involved in a project outside the School Fruit Scheme itself. When this project was completed in the summer of 2003, the question of entitlement to supplies arose within the School Fruit Scheme. So this was before there was any change in the organisation of school fruit. Deliveries were initially rejected with a background in quality assessments. Later I was informed that the supplier had agreed on further deliveries. In the context of a new regulation, all suppliers wishing to join the scheme shall be reviewed by 30 June of this year. This will also apply to this supplier concerned. Where several wish to supply goods to this scheme within the same geographical area, tenders for the supply rights may be made under the regulation. Proper treatment will be given in the approval of suppliers. The previously mentioned new guidelines on quality, selection and supplier criteria provide a better basis for this than for this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e863	I thank you for your answer. It is good to hear that there is some progress in this, because it is clear that this has also had to do with the fact that some have experienced that they have almost been refused entry in line with other suppliers who have been in and had deliveries before, at least it has made it difficult for new suppliers to establish themselves in this important area. The action plan for organic production and placing on the market is based in St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000. If we look at the chapter on nutrition, health and agriculture, we see that a real bet is on cross-ministerial work; both the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Fisheries. There is no way to get how much you should be able to do here. That is when it may be difficult to get something into practice, and there may be a need for a clearer signal from the Council of State responsible. My question is: how will the Minister of Health ensure that they override the policy objectives of the Single European Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e874	My main responsibility is to achieve and meet the nutrition policy objectives, and the School Fruit Scheme is an important instrument in this. The fact that this is an instrument of public health policy has been strengthened by the fact that the scheme is now anchored by health authorities. I believe that the system as it is now implemented through the new regulations provides equal accessibility for suppliers of both organic and other products, and that one should thus avoid the type of discrimination suggested by the representative Jacobsen on his supplementary question. I believe that in practice, in this way, the scheme will be a contribution, if not a major and significant contribution, to the increased use of organic products, in line with the Organic Production and Marketing Action Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e881	I thank you again for your answer. We get into the situation that the question becomes whether it is possible for parents and elephants to have free choice. The Minister of Health said that there is no evidence that organically produced fruit is necessarily a bit better. However, in what way does the Minister of Health see that it is possible that the free choice is available in all municipalities and schools – the free choice to choose organically produced fruit, if it is one that wants – that the choice actually exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e888	The supply of goods can be affected in two ways, through demand and supply. And the subscribers, i.e. In this case, students and their superiors must ask for organic products and suppliers must be able to offer them. The provisions laid down to ensure non-discrimination between suppliers in relation to deliveries towards the School Fruit Scheme. I believe that, in line with all the thinking about what has to do with these issues, an attempt must be made to satisfy the consumer and user needs expressed through the contracts that are made in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e895	Then we go back to question 5, because now Inge Ryan is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e905	I'm sorry I wasn't here, but I was at the hearing, and it went a little faster here than I had calculated. – That's the way it was. I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘Inspectors from the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, inspected a selection of slaughterhouses in Norway last year and the report demonstrates critical conditions both in the transport and handling of animals. The report shows several examples of poor animal welfare in slaughterhouses. What action will the Council of State take to tighten up routines, reduce transport time and improve the control of slaughterhouses in the future, in order to avoid serious negligence on animals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e916	It is the slaughterhouses themselves that are responsible for ensuring compliance with animal welfare rules. Similarly, carriers are responsible for ensuring compliance with animal welfare rules for animals during transport. Animal welfare is part of the EEA Agreement. The harmonisation of EU-Norway legislation allows ESA to verify that our welfare rules for animals in slaughterhouses and during transport are in line with EU legislation and that they are properly enforced. ESA carried out an inspection in 2003. ESA itself decided which slaughterhouses were to be visited. A representative of the State Animal Health Authority, who was then the responsible authority, took part in the inspection. Unfortunately, a number of critical issues were identified, where the existing legislation was not complied with. This was the case both in slaughterhouses and during transport. The State’s animal health surveillance reacted immediately after the inspection had been carried out. Among other things, sent letters to the veterinarians with instructions to carry out supervision in all the slaughterhouses of the country. At the same time, work was started to address the inconsistencies that exist between EU directives and Norwegian provisions. Animal welfare and animal welfare are a theme that strongly embraces the Minister of Agriculture. He has asked the Food Authority, which is now responsible for supervision in this area, to give priority to animal protection in slaughterhouses and for transport in the current year. A new inspection is planned for all slaughterhouses and for some transport to slaughterhouses during the first six months of 2004. The procedures will be reinforced and there is a possibility of withdrawing the approval of slaughterhouses which do not comply with the essential requirements of the Regulation. In the past, responsibility for supervision was divided into two levels. Animal health surveillance was responsible for the supervision of the transport of animals to the slaughterhouse area, where the Food Safety Authority took over the responsibility for supervision. The establishment of the Food Authority — a single supervisory body — will provide the supervisory authority with far better opportunities to follow-up cases than in the past. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Agriculture is pursuing the objectives and measures of improved animal welfare provided through the treatment of St. Announcement. No 12 for 2002-2003, on animal husbandry and welfare, including: complete review of the applicable animal protection law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e935	Thank you very much for your answer! It is right as the minister says, that last year we had a thorough handling of this matter, about animal welfare, where SV was particularly concerned that we should have a treatment of animals that are as gentle as possible from the time they are born, and until they are killed. But when reports show that on some animals slaughtering is started before they are dead, and just as when we hear that some animals have actually been standing for 17 hours without water or food in the slaughterhouse before they are slaughtered, or that chickens and hens are transported in boxes with holes at the bottom, so that the feet are crushed during transportation, we become alarmed. We had hoped that it was not necessary for the EFTA Surveillance Authority to carry out this inspection, but that we actually had procedures in Norway to ensure that such things were avoided, and that we were not dependent on someone coming from outside and putting ourselves in place, which is what has really happened. But I am very pleased that the minister says that you have reacted immediately. I am also very pleased that you will consider withdrawing the approval if the slaughterhouses do not follow this up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e948	I can assure the representative Ryan that the Minister of Agriculture will follow developments in this area with the eyes of the argus. As mentioned in my answer, ESA has revealed an improvement potential. Measures have been put in place that the Food Authority is now implementing. On behalf of the Minister of Agriculture, I would like to say that he is of course familiar with the work SV has completed, and the comment they had. If I am going to summarise the measures, I can say this in the following way: differences between the EU and Norwegian legislation will be corrected. It is important and proper that the transport should be carried out as carefully as possible. And there is now a course for animal transport drivers. – There is a question I know that SV has taken up. The Ministry of Agriculture is also actively organising the conditions for small-scale production around the country, where it will be possible to slaughter and process and sell the products locally. In addition, legislation on the protection of animals in slaughterhouses will be revised and it is also such that under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council, a project is in place to assess the research needs in the field of animal welfare. Stunning and killing methods are among the things that will focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e959	I thank you again, and I just want to say that at least from our side we will focus on this question also in the future. What's desirable is that we don't ask any more questions of this kind in the questionnaire, but we're going to have a preparedness and focus on this question. If necessary, we will of course come back to Stortinget with it again if you have not tightened up!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e966	Then we can see that the Minister of Agriculture, whom I represent here, has his eyes on the matter, and the representative Ryan has his eyes on it. The result must be good!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e971	So we go to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e978	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: «According to the Official Journal of the Bergen 28 March d.o.b. delivered a shopkeeper both thieves and evidence at the police station in Sogndal. The police were not interested. Is the Council of State saying that there is a correct response from the police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e987	Through the Directorate of Police I have obtained the following information in the case: ‘Friday 19 March 2004 c. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 1700 report a shopkeeper in Sogingen Storsenter about the shop. The message was given by another person on behalf of the shopkeeper. The person they thought they were adding to the store was the perpetrator, who was still at the store. The message was received by the Operation Centre in Florø. At that time, there were no public service servants in Sogndal. The operator at the operating centre assessed that there was no basis for calling out crew overtime. It was agreed that the shopkeeper would deliver a message about the robbery at Sognal Police Station on Monday 22.3.04. The notifier was then turned over by telephone to one of the service providers who had a watch service in the district. The report stated that formal notice was given to the police on the following Monday. No agreement was made that the store owner should bring the suspect. Monday March 22nd, 2004, the shopkeeper met with the suspect at Sogndal Police Station. The store owner explained that there were several items taken from the mall, but that suspects were a sign of fresh work with only one item in their pocket. This item was a sponge for NOK 29.50. This was the only item that the shopkeeper was sure the suspect had taken. The shopkeeper thought that suspects had taken more both from his store and other shops at the centre, but he could not do any closer to the suspicion. The serviceman received and registered the shoplifting message from the shopkeeper. He also accepted the evidence, which was photos from the center's surveillance camera. These files were attached to your project. The store owner was briefed that the suspect would be called in at a later date. The suspect is an asylum seeker and known by the police in Sogndal from before. The reason the police couldn't remove him immediately was that he didn't speak Norwegian and very poor English. The police had no interpreter present. In addition, the police would have tried to dismiss something more, because they had some other issues they would dismiss him if at the same time. On Monday 5 April 2004, the suspect was deflected with the help of an interpreter. The case is still under investigation.’ I have no handling of this matter on the basis of the statement from the Police Directorate. However, I can inform you that the penalty framework for Naziry was lifted on my proposal, in order to enable shop clerks or sentinels to apprehend nostrils and then to notify the police. This amendment was adopted against the votes of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e997	It is clear that there are different circumstances that make the police unable to do things right away. I understand that. But when Lensmann Borlaug says to Bergen's magazine that they can't always explain the public why they make the choices they make, I respond. If you can't tell the public what to do, and why to do it, you don't create the trust that's absolutely necessary between the police and the people. The fact that this is a small trifle both in substance and in what is a chair is a little subordinate. But it should be so that when someone from whom it is trusted goes to the police, the police will take it seriously. It's a completely dependent on trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1004	Of course, I fully agree with the representative regarding the last sentence that was expressed. Since the representative addresses the question, she naturally has a right to a proper answer. I have given this statement on the basis of information I have received from the Directorate of Police, which is, of course, based on local information. It is done the way I explained, so that you have reacted to the matter. You have dealt with the person responsible, i.e. the shop owner, and you have followed up the matter. What is an additional point, and of which I am not going to do a big political number, is that in its time, I thought – and I still mean – that it was right to tighten up the criminal provisions for Nazism, and that one could react with what is called citizen's arrest. It enabled the shopkeeper to do what he did in this case. He acted in accordance with the law. As far as I can see, he was also correctly received by the police, and the matter has been followed up. But the representative and I agree on one thing, and it is absolutely essential that you understand how the police act. That is why I have also taken the initiative of the police officers meeting with the rapporteurs in the different municipalities in their districts to discuss the general nature of communication between the population and the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1013	It is a good initiative, which I will support, because it is unlikely that one has the necessary trust. After information from local authorities, until yesterday, the shopkeeper had not heard anything from the police. Of course, it's not quite good, either. When you start such a business, of course, the shopkeeper should also be informed about this. As I said, things aren't the biggest. But it's important that those who are going to use the police, whether they've been from a nostril or a nostril, have the necessary trust in the police. It's incredibly important. I support the Council of State in the last initiative that he said he had taken in relation to both the municipality and the police, because even if it's a small matter, it's very important in many communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1022	I am aware that what can be a small matter one place, is always a big matter for that one. That's the way it is. It goes on the relationship with the state of law. That was why in my day I actually promoted the change of laws that allowed people to react to Nazism there and there. I have received a statement that, in my opinion, explains that the police have reacted in a comprehensive manner. But the representative and I agree that it is very important that the contact is good locally. After visits, for example: In Sogn and Fjordane police districts, I know they're paying attention to it. As a follow-up to what the police have done in the past, I have just underlined this contact between the management of a police district and local rapporteurs. It's the way that what's going on the table comes on the table. I'll quote my late mother-in-law, who had a golden principle. She said: abb – everything on the table. The representative and I share this point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1033	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘The lack of money in the Eastfold Police Department has reached an unacceptable level. Significant budget cuts in the current year reduce the efforts of the agency in the fight against everyday crime. An increasing number of Eastern folds indicate that the cuts are safe. Limited resources mean, for example, that in Halden there is only one official to secure the city at night. Will the Government contribute funds to the revised budget to remedy the situation?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1042	The question the representative raises is important, and it was also raised in the spontaneous question time a week ago, but he will of course get the answer he needs. First of all, I would like to say that it is not correct that, overall, Eastfold police districts have had significant budget cuts for the current year. The situation is that, as part of the implementation of Phase I of the police reform, operating centres were established in all police districts. In addition to the 24-hour operations centre, one through the police reform has sought to increase the operational capacity of the police district. It is therefore wrong to look at how many men are ever connected to a police station at night. In the Halden-Fredrikstad-Sarpsborg area, the distance is often small, and I have been assured by the chief of police that Østfold has a stronger police operation than before, especially when one needs to invest more resources on serious missions. I gave an example of such a mission a week ago, namely a collection of twelve men and three dogs in a situation on the whales where it was very serious. As the police chief sees it, this has strengthened the preparedness of the police district. The police chief has also stated this in an excellent article in Fredrikstad Blad – a newspaper that I also notice the representative Hedstrøm has used in an article – where he has invited to a dialogue. There are now staff on active duty to receive messages at any time, and to send out patrols where there is a need. The Operation Commander has a commanding capacity and an overview of all patrols in the police district, and can use and strengthen resources significantly better than in the past. As a result of Phase I of the police reform, a significant number of positions have also been released from administrative to police operations. In addition, it can be mentioned that Eastfold police districts have significant tasks at the national border, and the district currently has 65 persons in custody, mainly in prison for drug trafficking and other border-related crime. Otherwise, after the reform, the police in Eastfold have made a significant contribution to organised crime in other ways. The district has had the main responsibility for the so-called methanol case with several hundred visions, and has otherwise rolled up environments behind the thefts of boats and boat engines for several million. This is, of course, a situation that is resource-intensive and may require internal re-priorities on the part of the police officer. The Ministry of Justice is continuously assessing the situation of the police's resources, and I will come back to this in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1055	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The reality description provided by the Council of State is different from that of the many policemen and the inhabitants of Eastfold have of the situation. The situation is completely unacceptable, both for the police and for the public. Priorities are being made, as the Council of State was concerned, every day, but the difference in the offer that can be made, and what is the real need, is enormous. We have had a number of ‘incidents’ lately that have gone to life and health loose, where the police have not been able to move out because of lack of resources. Many find this unacceptable. What will the Council of State do specifically to improve the situation, in addition to what he has described in his main reply?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1064	I built my main response to the efforts of the police in Eastfold. I guess the representative thinks it is commendable to follow the methanol case. You don't plan such a thing, but when it shows up, you have to take it very seriously. I assume that the representative also thinks it is commendable that thefts of boat engines are being solved. It's the most everyday crime that affects people, and you're actually going into it. I assume that he also thinks it is commendable that you have policemen rolling in front of you, so that they can get together, like at Whaler. Then there's the general situation where I've never hidden the fact that the police have a tight budget. That's why I said I have to get back to it in budgetary terms. I get to quote myself from the spontaneous question hour, where I said that the challenges the police are facing, among other things. in view of the situation in Stavanger, will be discussed and addressed in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1073	I thank the Council of State for the additional response, and we are meeting the revised budget. The rapporteurs in Eastfold are now gathering together, because they will also make demands in this situation. They believe this is so serious, especially in the cities, that they will make a request to the Ministry. We meet the revised budget, and then the parties also have the opportunity to submit their proposals, if we feel that this is not being followed up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1080	It's the way we always go about the budgets we have. The representatives of the Grand Duchy affect the budgets under consideration. However, let me say the following to the satisfaction of everyone, myself included, also the representative Hedstrøm and others who belong to: The budget for the current year was a settlement between the government parties and the Workers' Party. The 2003 budget agreement, concluded between the Government Parties and the Progress Party, strengthened the police budget by 46 million. kr of a total reinforcement of approx. DKK 5.7 billion. In other words, in the budgetary agreement, the Progress Party prioritised 99 pst. of what entered into the agreement, in areas other than those related to the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1091	I will allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘All the more often, the police are facing armed criminals. The tragic police killing in Stavanger is just one example of this. After the signed experience, a light-arming of a police car will cost approx. NOK 125 000. It is today that there are exemptions from passenger car charges for light armoured vehicles for public use. In the case of a police car, savings in charges will be NOK 120 000. When arming police cars is almost free, why is this not done to a greater extent?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1100	After the robbery and the killing of a police officer in Stavanger, the Police Directorate has set up a fast-working group, including the police. shall assess the need for new and better equipment for the police. The use of so-called armoured vehicles is part of this assessment. I have been informed that this group will complete its work before the summer. In parallel, police data and material services are currently carrying out tests on two uniform call-out vehicles with fire protection. The level of protection chosen implies an additional cost of approximately NOK 75 000, even with a tax exemption. Both vehicles have been rebuilt in Norway. If the evaluation of the test shows that the test is successful, the task of building the vehicle may be published in tender. Vehicle fire protection could then be offered to the police districts. Police officers are responsible for the acquisition of materials, and so far there has been little demand for vehicle fire protection. In the Stavanger case, a type of weapon and ammunition was used that was so strong that the armor type that is now under test would not have been sufficient. In this case, the police vehicle had to have a heavy relief ring. This is only delivered from the factory. Such a vehicle would be too heavy for normal patrols and would cost at least 3,5 million. kr. The Directorate of Police states that guidelines for the use of armoured vehicles will be drawn up as soon as the Stavanger team has submitted its proposals. I would add that I attach great importance to this group both in terms of police equipment to move, i.e. cars, and how they are equipped, i.e. the debate that has led to forward-looking storage, and how this forward-looking storage should be. Now that the police have started this group, with – as far as I can see – policemen with good operational background, it is because I want it to be worked out. For me it is important to know that the work will be available approx. in the middle of June, so we can call it a fast-working group.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1115	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer so far, and it is positive to hear that he is concerned about the security of his servants outside. It is essential for them to feel secure and to be properly and rationally maintained. At the same time, I'm a little surprised to hear that there has to be such a negative episode like the one in Stavanger, to put a real focus on this. The Minister of Justice is otherwise busy being proactive, being ahead of the problems. So now we have an episode that we would all be flattered about. My fear is that we're always behind us, and we're acting after the negative things have happened. So I want a more offensive position from the Minister. In addition, I could imagine hearing the Minister's reason that it is today that ambulances and fire trucks are exempt from charge – that is a call-out vehicle – while the police's call-out vehicle is actually not. I could imagine making the minister explain the logic in this context, or the lack of such.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1124	The last question was raised, explained and examined in the context of the budget for the current year, and the representative then presented its comments. The majority of the population then chose to have the scheme that now exists. Let me make it quite clear that, of course, the security of the police is crucial. Of course, that safety is linked both to vehicles and to other equipment, which is listed here. But it might also relate to something else, which in the debate was expressed in an excellent way by the head of the Police Union in Rogaland, I think it was, saying that we can't rely on fighting street strikes, but that we have to be in the forefront. So the answer is, to take a word that the representative probably agrees with me in: intelligence, intelligence, intelligence – that is, that you can be in the forefront. That is why I have also stressed the need to have a rapid transmission of the work that has been ordered in the past, and that is looking at the police's methods to get in at an earlier time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1131	I thank you again for the answer. I fully share the Minister's view that we should be prepared. But with the word "prepared" I hope that we will be in the forefront. Being prepared afterwards is something defensive at my discretion, even if we don't manage to prevent everything. It's about, as I see it, that you always work consciously and have an attitude to also maybe be able to predict what we hope to avoid should happen, and that you also have a certain degree of thoughts about how to deal with it in that case, cf. what was done in connection with the planned World Bank meeting here, where you worked well in advance. Then I want to address what the minister started his last answer with, namely that when the Justice Committee last fall took up the tax exemption, a majority rejected it. At the same time, I register that the minister will not answer what I asked for, so I will take the opportunity to ask again: since it is such that there are exemptions from the charge on a fire and ambulance non-pressurisation vehicle, why don't you have the same system for the police emergency vehicle?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1138	Let me say that the Norwegian charging system is not always logical. It is a mixture of the purpose of the levy and budgetary considerations. There's no reason to wrap it up. Ultimately, this is about budget sizes and how the budgets should be. I have no objection to having a fair debate on it – of course not. The budget for which I am responsible, I am responsible, and the representative has the right to drill in this. But let me add as a summary, in order for there to be no doubt, that in order to combat the raw and tough and cynical form of crime we see, we must of course think of security, as the representative addressed first, and I pointed out to the directorate now. I've been busy for a long time, and I'm still. The other security is the one in front of it, and it's linked to other police efforts – let's call it a test effort. It is also an expression that I will come back to the revised national budget with the main framework for what I would call a new, eaten national unit in the police, just to go after the most serious forms of organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1150	This question, from the representative Arne Lyngstad to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1153	I will be asked the following questions: ‘The NRC notified on 22 March that approx. 400 young people in Akershus are at risk of standing without an apprenticeship for the autumn. It may seem that this is a problem that affects the whole country. In addition to private, it is important that public institutions also think more about the long-term and offer apprenticeships. Does the Council share the view that we can face a general shortage of apprenticeship places, and what does the Council of State think must be done to ensure sufficient space?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1162	The placement of apprentices takes place both in the spring and in the summer, but mainly in the autumn towards school start-ups. For example, in 2003 there was an increase in the number of problem drug users. per 1 % 1 May only distributed 1 200 apprentices, while the final figure per October 1st was almost 9,000 apprentices. Therefore, it is difficult to have a feeling about the situation on a country-by-country basis in October on the basis of Akershus estimates from the month of March. However, there are two challenges that constantly affect access to apprenticeship places in relation to the need. One is the economic development. We know that companies draw the most apprentice contracts when the prospects are good and the demand for goods and services is high. Fortunately, the government’s economic policy provides for increased employment and growth, so that the demand for apprentices can be expected to increase. The second challenge is that in the next few years there will be strong growth in the higher education colleges. This growth is coming across the country, but Akershus is the state that will experience the strongest growth. It is a challenge for the county councils that they have to meet with more activity to get employers to establish more places for apprentices. The effort must, as also pointed out by the applicant, be directed towards both private and public employers. In this context, I would like to stress that the students who are entitled to training under the Training Act will in any case receive the training they require. Those who do not get a contract with an apprenticeship will receive the final education in school. Although this training will not provide these students with the same company experience as the apprentices, they will receive the same training as the basis for the same examination. For the time being, I see no basis for the ministry to do anything in relation to apprenticeships. However, if the preliminary figures obtained in May on apprentice contracts were to give signals of particular problems, the Ministry and the Council of State would deal with these issues with the social partners. As you know, neither the ministry nor the county authorities have any opportunity to oblige companies to sign apprenticeship contracts, but active dialogue with the parties has largely succeeded in obtaining the number of apprenticeship places needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1180	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Some apprenticeship places are very important to get good vocational training. I'm of those who are at the moment a little concerned about access to apprenticeships. Akershus is mentioned in my question. They wear with strong growth in the student coals. Also in my own county, Nord-Trøndelag, the training offices say that it is now more difficult to get apprenticeship space. It could be a little bit cyclical. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that these biases, such as: due to business cycles, we may need to think more about mobility across county boundaries in order to provide sufficient apprenticeship space. In addition to economic activity and increasing student numbers, it is linked to the increased interest in the professions. I am pleased with the willingness to engage in dialogue with the social partners. I'm aware that the government can't impose jobs on apprentices, but the government can stimulate it, and I think that's what needs to be assessed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1191	The counting date for the statistical basis for the number of apprentice contracts entered into is set at 1 October, and that is when we actually get the full overview. But the Council of State fully agrees with the questioner that having an offensive attitude is important in motivating companies to deal with apprenticeships. Then it's enough that we have to be even more willing to look over the county boundaries. Personally, I have experience that apprenticeship places in another state work well, so the county boundaries must not become a barrier in this context. But the county councils have undoubtedly an important role to play. The Ministry has established cooperation with the social partners on vocational training in order to have a continuous focus on this with professional recruitment and on having a sufficient number of apprenticeship places. So this is an interaction between schools, county councils and governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1198	Thank you again for your answer. I am pleased with the active dialogue that the Government wants to add up with the social partners. I think it's necessary in the time we're moving forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1205	The Minister of Education is concerned about this and will follow it up in line with what has been said here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1214	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘In connection with the ‘Rocknes’ spill, land was discovered in the Vatlestraum, which is part of the narrowest and most busy part of the ship’s trail to and from Bergen harbour. The reservoir has very unclean waters, with insufficient map documentation. Among the ships in operation are also larger tonnages with dangerous, polluting and large passenger ships with a high bunker capacity. Will the Council of State impose sailing restrictions in Vatlestraum?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1223	The government has a strong focus on coastal maritime safety in order to prevent accidents. With a coastline of 82,000 km, it is an extensive and challenging work. The accident with «Rocknes» has naturally given particular attention to the area of the Vatlestraum. The coastal works have now re-examined the safety of maritime traffic in this area. In the main trails north of Bergen, i.e. The Sture and Mongstad areas, the Coastal Plant has established its own sailing regulations due to the oil tanker traffic in the area. This area is currently being monitored by Fedje traffic centre. The Coastal Authority now assesses whether sailing rules should also be introduced in the main link south of Bergen, which includes, inter alia, the following: Watercourse dreams. At the same time, the Coastal Zone Assessment on the coverage of the Fedje traffic centre should be extended to include the entrance from the south, through the Vatlestraum and into Bergen. As a first step, there is a partnership with the Defense, which has camera surveillance of the Vatlestrum. The plan is to give Fedje central access to these images. This measure must also be seen in the context of the work of the Coastal Works on ship mutual warning procedures before they arrive at the Vatlestraum from the north or south. The aim is to ensure that larger ships can sail in the middle of the Vatlesroom without encountering any other traffic. I would also like to remind you of the international rules on the prevention of collisions at sea, the so-called maritime rules, such as: sets out specific requirements for the adaptation of navigation and the passage of narrow waters such as the Watershed. The coastal works have also taken action in relation to the marking of the water in the Watershed. Floating watermarks have been issued for the particular reason. At the same time, the Hiller lamp is adjusted to this reason. Furthermore, the Coastal Station investigates the possibility of removal of the relevant land in the Vatlestrum. Similar assessments are made in relation to the establishment of an alternative link through the Kobbeleia west of Bjorøy, in order to possibly separate north and south traffic in the waters concerned. The coastal works therefore assess a number of measures for the Vatlestraum. The sailing rules for the Vatlestrum must be seen in the context of the other measures, and I think it is right to await the entire work of the Coastal Works before deciding whether or not to introduce such provisions, but we have an opening.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1242	I thank you for your answer. It is unquestionably positive that measures are in the process of being evaluated. This tragic accident is just as full of a reminder that we're dealing with the fairway of innskjär. What's special is that it's also densely populated, partly on both sides, and close to the fairway itself. In this context, we also get a reminder that it is important not only to look at the volume of traffic, but also the types of traffic we have. And as I mentioned in my introductory question, there are two types of traffic that give cause for concern. One is dangerous cargo, where tankers, for example, go. high-explosive product as petrol. Then – happily – there is a strong increase in cruise traffic to the port of Bergen, but the ships are getting bigger and bigger, and they have more and more bunkers loaded on board. Does the Council of State see that this is a particular risk and that there is a particular risk associated with this area? And does the Council of State think that the two main measures suggested are now being properly secured?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1251	I visited Mongstad yesterday and met with local authorities, port authorities and maritime authorities. There is one thing going on again, and there is a strong commitment to having the highest possible preparedness and the highest possible certainty in what can well be characterised as risk area no. 1, namely the area south-north of Bergen with the large traffic going there, whether we are talking about oil, passengers or other shipping. The tragic accident of «Rocknes» shows how vulnerable the coast is, when an accident such as this can be avoided, with the consequences it has, among other things. for the environment. It takes six months from the accident, until we've done a complete clean-up after a relatively limited oil spill because of the risk involved. When we review the Vatlestraum with the background to the "Rocknes" accident, we look at, as I explained, all the elements, and we're going to draw a conclusion. But we've already taken measures to make shipping safer beyond this place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1258	The size has previously dealt with two Document Nos. 8 proposals related to oil protection in the area concerned. Will this area be dealt with in the notification of the total oil protection preparedness adopted by the Storting? And will local authorities, including The municipality of Bergen, the municipalities of Sotra and Hordaland County, are given the opportunity to make recordings that are based on safety and traffic restrictions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1263	We're going to, we've said, deliver a big message on these questions before Christmas. Yesterday I was presented with an analysis of the situation in Hordaland, led by former Countess Ravndal, a useful input into the work we are going to do. In addition, unfortunately, we have – if I may say so – a practical test through the ‘Rocknes’ accident. I consider that it may be necessary to postpone the submission of the notification in order to provide all the evaluations and assessments on which the ‘Rocknes’ accident is based. In case it would help to postpone the cancellation message, I will, of course, return to Stortinget. But I think it is important that all the experience we have now gained – unfortunately in the event of an accident – is also the basis for the analyses and measures we are going to promote for the Stortinget. It'll be more important for me to bring in all these things and hear all the implication than necessarily to keep pace. I hope the Storting will agree with that, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1273	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The ESA claims that the Norwegian crew rule on Norwegian fishing vessels is contrary to the EEA Agreement’s rules on the free movement of labour. This is contested by the Norwegian authorities. Does the Council of State consider that this part of the Act of Participation is such a fundamental part of Norwegian fisheries policy that Norway must bring it before the EEA Court, if necessary, in order to have the ESA’s position tested?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1282	The ESA decision is linked to the second paragraph of Section 3 of the Fisheries Prohibition Act concerning nationality and residence requirements for skippers and crews on board Norwegian fishing vessels. The background to the case is that in 2000 a Norwegian registered vessel was fishing with a Dutch captain and crew who did not meet the requirement for residence. On this basis, the Norwegian shipping company was fined, but brought an action before Norwegian courts claiming that the fishing ban law violates the EEA Agreement rules on the free movement of workers. The shipping company did not cooperate. The judgment is now valid, but the shipping company complained to ESA, who has taken the matter up. ESA is of the opinion that, by maintaining the nationality and residence requirement, Norway infringes Article 28 of the EEA Agreement and Articles 1 and 4 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68 on the free movement of workers within the Community. In Norway's contact with ESA, we have maintained that there is no breach of the EEA Agreement. Fisheries policy, resource management and access to resources fall outside the scope of the EEA Agreement. This implies that the agreement does not regulate resource management, regulation and quotas, structural policies and fishing rules. In our contacts with ESA, we have stated as Norwegian views that fisheries policy also includes access to the setting of nationality and residence requirements. The ESA does not dispute that the fisheries policy falls outside the EEA Agreement, but claims that this does not give Norway the right to restrict the free movement of workers. The Government considers the criterion of residence to be an important condition in relation to the real relationship between fishing vessels and Norway and coastal communities. The case is in principle, as it concerns an area which is initially exempted from the EEA Agreement. Furthermore, it is principled that the ESA’s interpretation would deter Norway from applying a criterion allowed under the EU fisheries policy in order to maintain links with the coastal communities. Following the ESA’s decision, Norway has been given two months to comply with its decision. In accordance with Article 31 of the ‘Agreement between the EFTA States on the establishment of a Monitoring Body and a Court of Justice’, the ESA may bring the matter before the EFTA Court if Norway does not act after that decision. The second option, as I understand it, is that the representative of Bastisen asks that Norway bring the case before the EFTA Court in accordance with Article 36 of the same agreement. Such a case may be brought on the basis of lack of competence, material maladministration, infringement of the ‘Agreement between the EFTA States on the establishment of a Monitoring Body and a Court of Justice’ or of the EEA Agreement, rules of law governing their application, or abuse of powers. As far as I know, no EEA/EFTA country has made use of this procedure, which I consider to be less practical in the present case. The question of the competence of ESA will be raised from the Norwegian side if ESA chooses to sue Norway. In the case of the reasoned opinion itself, it is to be assessed in accordance with the guidelines applicable to such cases. As part of this assessment, the Government will address all legal and political aspects of the case, including the management of ESA. So it won't be right for me to go into more detail at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1303	I thank the Council of State for the answer and have an additional question. Fisheries policy is not part of the EEA Agreement. Nevertheless, ESA claims that the free movement of labour is one of the fundamental principles of the EU and that the Norwegian Act of Participation must be set aside. But is it that the free movement of capital is one of the fundamental principles of the EU? We have been granted a derogation for investments in the Norwegian fishing fleet. Should we not have also been granted a derogation in the matter of manning the fishing fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1310	This case is linked by ESA to the former Fisheries Borders Act, now the Fisheries Prohibition Act, which deals with nationality and residence requirements for skippers and crews on board Norwegian fishing vessels. The law of participants is not the basis for this, but it is right that the law of participants has a reference to nationality and residence requirements in the Fishing Prohibition Act and could therefore be affected by raising such a problem. However, this will raise other legal issues of establishment in the fishing industry than those which have so far been raised by ESA, so it is important to keep these two relationships apart. With regard to the rules of establishment of the EEA Agreement, Norway has a clear exception which allows us to continue to apply restrictions to foreign nationals who wish to establish themselves in fishing or in companies that own or operate fishing vessels. What this matter is about, is that at least 50 pst. by the crew and the skippers on board the vessels must be Norwegian or resident in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1317	I thank you again for the answer. Until now, the Norwegian Governments have raised the issue of veto or bring it before the EFTA Court. Does this mean fear of sanctions from the EU? What fears will the Council of State have if Norway brings the Act of Participation before the EFTA Court?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1324	Again, I would like to stress that it is not the participation law that is challenged in this matter, it is the Fishing Prohibition Act. In addition, I would like to stress that this government has just shown an offensive attitude, as we have not complied with the ESA's requirement. We now have to consider all the aspects of the matter during the time we have at our disposal, before we give a response. It will not be right for me to go into more detailed conclusions that are not yet reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1329	Questions 13 and 14 are addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade. The President cannot see that the Council of State has yet arrived, and we are therefore moving on to the question list.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1343	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1349	This question, from the representative of Bjørgulf Froyn to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1352	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘The Groruddalen is established as an environmental zone and the Stortinget has asked for measures to provide cleaner air, less noise, better road safety, access to green areas and a better cultural environment to be seen in the context. Noise abatement will often have positive effects in all of these areas. What measures are being taken to achieve less noise in the Groruddalen environmental zone?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1361	As a follow-up to St.meld. No 23 for 2001-2002, Better urban and urban environment, two pilot projects were established during 2003: the Groruddalen Environmental Zone and the Drammen Environmental Zone, which relate to the centre. The pilot project period shall be provided for a duration of three to four years. Environmental zone status means that the State will take a specific responsibility for coordinating State action in these areas. The Ministry of the Environment has contributed about DKK 1 billion per year. in 2003 and 2004 for this work. The State Road Service and the Railway Agency are actively involved in the environmental zone work. In the Groruddalen environmental zone, there are defined areas of intervention such as: will address area improvements with a view to achieving national air quality and noise targets, improving the environment for terminal areas and developing the Grorud centre into a viable urban centre and a collective hub. Measures within the responsibility of the State Road Service will be considered as part of the action programme for the other national road network for the period 2006 to 2015. In this respect, the priorities of the Municipality of Oslo shall be given decisive importance. There is also a separate strategy for transport in Groruddalen with a view to improving environmental conditions. This strategy includes, inter alia: construction of the Fossum Diagonal as cross-link between Trondheim Road and East Aker Road. In addition, the project Rv 150 Ulven-Sinsen will provide significant noise relief for adjacent areas. In order to reduce environmental disadvantages in the Grorud Valley, it is necessary to reduce the growth of car traffic. This must be done by imposing restrictive measures on car traffic and by investing in public transport solutions. In order to stimulate the municipalities for such measures, the Ministry of Transport has introduced the so-called reward scheme. It rewards municipalities which impose restrictive measures against car traffic and rates of public transport. In this context, the Municipality of Oslo has committed 25 million. kr. Half of the funds are provided on condition that the municipality adopts projects restricting passenger car traffic. The state Road Service is working on an arrangement for a reduced winter travel limit for Trondheimswegen, among others. to reduce the high levels of air pollution. A speed reduction is intended to provide significant noise improvement over the relevant period. The measure is planned to start in the winter of 2004/2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1376	Thanks for the answer. Let me first say that the so-called incentive scheme of $25 million. kr for the Oslo area will slightly affect some of the problems in the Groruddalen. There is something to do with the fact that Oslo’s problems with public transport are, of course, more extensive than that of the Groruddalens alone, and that the costs of measures in the Groruddalen will have a different bill. But apart from that, the reason for the question is that today is a noise-free day. It could be an opportunity for the Government to highlight a more offensive and active attitude towards what is happening in the area. Reduced speed is mentioned. My specific question would then be: Does this mean that the Government is prepared to support the proposal to reduce speed to 60 km/h on important parts of the roads in the area? Would it be interesting for the Government to downgrade Trondheimswegen to become an environmental road?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1383	The government and the Ministry of Transport take the challenges of the Grorud Valley seriously. Traffic is so large that some of the measures may be reduced traffic and speed reduction, just to limit noise and other disadvantages associated with the high speed and the high number of cars. If this results in a speed limit of 60 km/h, which the queryer picks up, it's too early to say anything about. But with the cooperation that is now between different authorities, as I pointed out, the ministry assumes that a set of instruments are being put in place to reduce the disadvantages. In this context, measures have been implemented in relation to noise abatement in Groruddalen – investments of approximately EUR 15 million. Forty-five million. kr – just to reduce the disadvantages for those living along the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1388	The Grorud Valley has a population of nearly 130 000 people. It corresponds to a fairly large Norwegian city. All the problems associated with the Groruddalen – now I want to focus specifically on noise – would, if this had been an independent city and not a city in Oslo, have received a completely different national attention. My question is then: does not the Council of State feel that it is reasonable to show much greater interest from the government team, and thus to propose measures as monks, in the case of Groruddalen?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1395	That's exactly what the government is doing in St.meld. No 24 for 2003–2004, the national transport plan, which is now under treatment in the United Kingdom, where, among others, points out that, with the support of a new user funding scheme, it may also be appropriate to start the development of Rv 4 in the Groruddalen/Fossum diagonal. So in national transport for the next period, we've pointed to the Groruddalen in particular. It underlines that the Minister for Transport is particularly concerned with the problems in the Groruddalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1400	We then go back to question 13. The President makes it clear that there is an absolute requirement that the Councils of State should try to reach the Grand Duchy at the time they reply to the questions put by the representatives. Today, there were two state councils that did not come forward in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1408	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘SIVA aims at establishing production holdings around the country. In the case of the sale of capacity where they do not want to be the owner themselves, one would believe that two principles were laid down: that sale is made to the maximum bidder and that it is taken into account if it is to be used for production. In Sulitjelma in the municipality of Fauske, the SIVA was sold, and no account was taken of any of the parts. [[ZACO AS]] A production company with the highest bid was not successful. Is this compatible with the EEA Code and the purpose of SIVA?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1417	Let me be very sorry first that I came too late. SIVA’s construction in Fauske was moved away in the autumn of 2002. SIVA applied to the market for serious tenants, without results, and decided in December 2002 to sell the building. As you know, EEA legislation prohibits distorting State aid. This implies that buildings and property cannot be sold at industrial activities below market prices. I have been informed that in this case, SIVA has sought to obtain market prices on the property, in line with this legislation. The difference between the two offers that existed, from Mountain Service AS and Zaco AS respectively, was NOK 5000 – a difference that is not very large when the bids were on the lower side of SEK half a million. Zaco AS had the highest bid, but did not, like Mountain Service, submit a financing commitment. This ratio was naturally added to the weight of SIVA. Zaco AS shall have defaulted a previous lease with SIVA for the same purpose. I assume that if everything else is similar, sales should be made to the maximum bidder. However, an overall assessment of the different tenders must take into account aspects such as the financing plan, arrangements for further operations and the knowledge of the parties involved by the seller. SIVA’s board of directors is responsible for managing the company’s properties and dealing with investment, sale and rental issues. As a result, questions of this nature are not submitted to the ministry. Based on the information I have, I find that the choice made by SIVA between the two tenderers in this case does not conflict with the purpose of SIVA or the EEA Agreement, by which we are also obliged.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1428	I thank you for your answer. Zaco AS had plans for the production of PET bottles in this building. The other company had no plans for production, which is contrary to the starting point of SIVA. I have documentation from this company that they have offered 500 000 kroner for this construction. The sale was NOK 475,000, which is a difference of NOK 25 000. In addition, the company asked Zaco in a letter dated 1 September 2002 to keep some equipment in the building until the sale was completed. This equipment was sold together with the building. I think that's quite outrageous. Will the Minister take hold of this and clean it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1435	First of all, these numbers. As far as I understand, the amounts were 480 000 kroner and 475 000 kroner, excluding sales costs, if you make the figures comparable. The gross figure was, as the representative said, 500,000 kroner. So it's going to be $5,000 in difference. SIVA's administration and board of directors also focus on other elements when performing such sales. I just have to note that SIVA has completed a sale. I guess the questioner will understand that such a sale cannot, of course, be converted. However, it would be natural, on the basis of this question, to clarify the premise for such sales as SIVA carries out, but as I said, I have no evidence to say that they have not followed the rules and guidelines that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1440	I understand, of course, that such sales cannot be converted. But when the difference is small and there is a lack of a financing plan from one, there should be contact with the request for such a financing plan. I understand that this has not happened. I think that should be done in the future. And as I also said, can it not be acceptable that equipment that was allowed to be stored in the building was sold to the new company?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1445	I regret to say that at that level I have no detailed knowledge of what was stored in this building. But based on the statements and suggestions that have come, of course, I'm going to take this to SIVA.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1450	The President believes that the Storting understands that a government council cannot have an overview of all the details at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1456	«In recent times, it has been claimed that Spanish shipyards have a framework which gives them a competitive advantage in the international market. Following a media look-up, Spanish government agencies now provide loans and other support corresponding to 7 billion. kr over a period of three years in advance. Does the Council of State feel that this affects international competition, and what will he do to counteract this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1463	The shipbuilding industry operates, as we all know, in a global market. In such a market, the framework conditions in the various countries will affect international competition. This is a relationship that is reflected in St.meld. No 31 for 2003-2004, Vilje for growth – for Norwegian shipping and the maritime industries. This means that we have to follow closely what's going on out there, but not least that we also have to look at what we can do here at home. It is important to facilitate the continued development of this industry so that it can also be an important contributor to value creation in the future. Innovation will be very important in this way. As part of Innovation 2010, the government has therefore taken the initiative of MARUT — a maritime development project which also includes the marine and petroleum sectors. In order to get the pressure on this work, the Government, as we have signaled in Vilje to growth, will set up a dedicated innovation programme for the maritime industries. With regard to Spain, Norway has raised this issue with the European Commission several times with other EU countries. The Commission is now examining the Izar Group for an assessment of whether the company has received State aid that goes beyond the existing legislation. It is expected that the Commission will take a decision on this matter within a very short time. In the case of any new aid scheme in Spain, these must be notified to the Commission. And I assume that Spain, like other countries, has to deal with the current legislation in the EEA area. I am generally concerned that Norwegian shipyards, like other industries, should have the same framework conditions as their European competitors. As is known, the Government has followed this up by making a recent proposal for the extension of the yard support system for container ships, product and chemical ships and LNG ships. The extension has been proposed for a period of one year. Finally, I can add that this weekend I was in Ireland at an EU Ministerial Meeting, where this too was a topic that was raised outside the agenda. There are more countries than Norway that are engaged in the regime in the process of being established in Spain. There is a significant degree of attention related to the matter that the Commission now has to deal with, and which is likely to be completed, as I said, within a very short time. As the representative Akselsen is familiar with, we, together with TBL, have funded a project for TBL to conduct our own studies. We have used considerable amounts even to conduct international investigations into the conditions in Spain, precisely because allegations of illegal State aid have been made. But it is quite important to distinguish between what is lawful and what is illegal. This is a very weak business area with high unemployment, and there are many legal means that are also channelled here, as far as I am aware.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1474	I thank you for your answer. I also agree with the starting point that we should ensure that Norwegian yards operating in the same area have the same competition rules. Therefore, I am also in agreement with the Minister when he says that it is important to follow closely, but I ask questions as to whether this has happened from the Norwegian side. We know that TBL has carried out an investigation supported by the Ministry. What I'm asking is what has been done afterwards from the Council of State to follow up on this matter. I'm left with the impression that not enough has taken hold of the debts that have come to this area. I believe that to the extent that there are schemes that are not in the regulation, it is particularly important that Spanish authorities feel that the authorities of other countries are concerned about these issues, so that one cannot take liberties. What I would like to see is an answer to what the Minister of Industry has done to follow up the work of the TBL study, and whether Norway will benefit from the possibilities that exist through the EU system in order to be even more fully informed and possibly terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1483	I am pleased with that adjustment to the wording. The accent says you haven't done anything much enough. I think maybe what I read in the newspaper was something rough. As far as I know and have been able to investigate, the Norwegian authorities have never done so much to just try to reveal this. But it's an engagement that not only the Norwegian authorities have, but also all the other countries that have had and have competition problems associated with some of these Spanish yards. What we have done in retrospect is to follow this up with the Commission, not least by influencing and talking with others who are in the same boat, whether German, Swedish or Danish ministers. Last weekend, as I said, I had a conversation with a representative of the Spanish Government, and I asked him to convey all my concerns about the developments we are seeing, and for the implications it has for Norwegian shipyards as well. I assume that the newly elected government will be handed over by the person present at the Ministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1490	Of course, I am pleased that the Minister has spoken with his Spanish colleague. One should not underestimate the value of such calls. Nevertheless, there are claims that illegal subsidisation is taking place here. Through the EEA Agreement, we are part of EU internal legislation which allows us to use it in a much stronger way than can be achieved through such a conversation. In the light of the information presented in the TBL investigation, I would like to ask again: does the Minister of State of Norway have done what can be done in this case, or will an even greater pressure be put on the EU system to investigate what is actually related to this? This is crucial, especially in a period when we know that Norwegian shipyards have major problems with their order books.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1497	I feel very secure when it comes to doing what can be done. What we did in these investigations of TBL, and not least in our own direction, was in a way to go as far as you can go, in relation to what another country's government is doing on its own continent. We can't do police research in Spain. This has become a matter for the Commission. We have sent all the documentation we have received, to the Commission, we have spoken with representatives of other countries and ministers who are interested in the same matter, and we have met with the EU Competition Commissioner to draw attention to these things. But, as I said at the outset, legal and illegal support must not be mixed. There's a lot of support that's legal in this world. As far as I've understood from the last package, it's about 215 million. EUR for a R & D programme and EUR 300 million. EUR in grants and loans to these yards.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1508	Question 15 is deferred, and question 16 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1514	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1517	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries: ‘In Hedmark, as in the rest of the country, the problem with people using the car as a suicide tool is an increasing problem. Often encounter accidents involving heavy vehicles are involved. The Council of State sees this problem as inter alia: unfairly affects truck industry, in addition to the personal tragedies of suicide, and what will the Council of State do to raise awareness of this and thereby reduce the number of accidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1526	The issue raised by the representative, Mr Bredvold, is both important and serious – and tragically so. Whoever wants to take his life, the relatives who are left, and in many cases an innocent heavy-duty driver who gets heavy loads, gets involved in such accidents. There is, of course, little data on this phenomenon. However, a 1999 study conducted by SINTEF shows that perhaps as many as 9 pst. the number of deaths in road accidents on the right routes may be the result of suicide. This underlines that the extent of the phenomenon can be much greater than what we have been aware of in the past. The Minister of Transport has therefore already focused on two aspects. First, how can we, as far as possible, prevent drivers from taking their own lives and risking others in traffic? And secondly, how can we assist those heavy-duty drivers who are exposed to this phenomenon? On 5 February this year the Minister for Transport invited the transport industry and the Road Directorate to meet on this issue. Different support schemes have been put in place for heavy-duty drivers, including: Norway's Lastebileier-Federal Collaborative Aid. As a result of the meeting, Norway’s Lastebileier-Federal Association, the Landsförbund of Transport and the Road Directorate shall jointly assess other measures, including: advise call-out personnel on how to deal with heavy-duty drivers after such a tragic event. On the other hand, the fight against suicide must be waged on several fronts, where the most important measures still need to be implemented under the direction of the health care system. But the transport authorities and industry are doing their utmost to limit the damage to the innocent party, which is often the heavy-duty driver who is at work and who experiences the nightmare of being involved in a tragic traffic accident caused by a suicide request from the driver in the car that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1539	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think was good. It substantiates the problem and the seriousness of just this type of accident. Also in the previous period, I raised a similar question, with the Council of State then sitting. Unfortunately, the percentage of such meeting accidents has increased. I saw in the media here a day that the number might be twice the size of the 9 pst. as the SINTEF report of 1999 shows. But either way, 1 is pst. Too much. One accident is one too many. Of course, this question could also have been addressed to other government councils. So I hope the Minister for Fisheries will take it with him, so that there will be broad cooperation with several government councils in this area. Because it's not just about traffic, it's about people who might not have had a driver's license at the very moment of such an accident. This may also be for the Minister of Finance – that more money is allocated to road construction, among others. to midpoints.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1548	The problem of suicide is – as the questioner is also concerned – complex. This government has, among other things: focussed on an increased need in psychology and youth psychiatry. What is involved in this is clearly an increasing problem. The numbers are uncertain, which is what the questioner is about. The last numbers we have from the SINTEF study are suggesting 9 pst. In any case, the Minister of Transport and the transport authorities have considered this to be such a serious problem, not least in relation to the innocent party, that initiatives have been taken to bring the industry together to assess what action can be taken, both to limit this phenomenon and, secondly, to limit the harm to the innocent party. It's usually the driver in a heavy-duty car who's only at work, who then experiences the nightmare it must be getting involved in such a tragic accident, which is a tragedy both by what's happening on the road, and by the fact that someone has wanted to put themselves and others in such a dangerous situation, by wanting to take their own life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1555	Once again, I thank the Council of State for its clarification. I am well pleased with what has been said. Nevertheless, I believe it is important that we raise this issue at the central Council level here, so that it is further illuminated. What I concluded with in my previous follow-up question was that maybe there might also be a little more money needed to secure, among other things. midsections on the roads. Now it's going to be spending a little bit of money on this in the period that comes, but 80 km of the total distance we have in Norway is not enough to prevent people from crossing the middle line and thus colliding with a heavy wagon train, if desired. I'm very pleased with the sum of the answers. I will, of course, follow this case further, because it is a big case, especially for the truck industry, which is struggling in many ways. It's also a big and heavy case for those who get involved in this way, by someone taking their life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1564	I have to convey these points of view to the Minister for Transport. But I would like to stress that the Government has increased the appropriations for the road sector. One of the priority areas is security, and it will also have an impact in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1573	This question, from the representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1578	I would like to ask the following questions: ‘According to figures from the Debt Victims Alliance, over 220 municipalities across the country have engaged the debt collection agency Lindorff to collect unpaid municipal taxes. With high collection fees, this debt increases rapidly for those affected. In the municipality of Bærum, the collection methods of the debt collection agency have been criticised. The critics have considered that public authorities have a particular responsibility to respond to their own demands, because many will be targeted at disadvantaged people. Is the Council of State satisfied that the law provides for the private collection of debt to the public?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1587	My starting point is simple: both municipalities and county councils are required to provide the best possible services in terms of performance, price and quality within the framework of the legislation in force. For several municipal services, municipalities themselves may charge users for the service. If these are services the user is required to use, the payment is generally referred to as a fee or charge, e.g. fee for waste. The debt collection activity itself includes ‘recovery or continuous recovery of claims due for others’ and the purchase of claims due and their recovery, as set out below. Section 2 of the collection law. This law allows municipalities to leave debt collection companies to collect fees and charges through a regular out-of-court collection agency. However, I stress that the business of the debt collection agency is to be carried out within the framework of the law’s requirements for ‘good debt collection policy’. It would be contrary to good debt collection practice to use collection methods that expose some to unreasonable pressure, damage or inconvenience. My position is that it is entirely right to leave to the municipalities and the local people themselves to consider how to collect, whether they will do so themselves, or whether they will leave the collection to a debt collection agency, of course within the framework of the law that opens up. If, according to an overall assessment, the municipality is more able to leave the collection to a debt collection agency than to build a unit in the municipality that can carry out this activity itself, I see little reason to cut off the ability of the local elected representatives to make such a decision. There is reason to stress that the recovery will of course not be free if the municipality chooses to carry out the recovery itself. It must be in everyone's interest that the recovery of claims due is done at the lowest possible cost for the municipality and its inhabitants. This means that the service should be left to private persons if the municipality itself believes that private individuals can do the task better and more effectively than the municipality itself can do. As regards the consideration of those of the municipality's inhabitants who are in a difficult situation, I believe that they should be helped primarily in ways other than by a less effective recovery of claims due. It is fully possible to take care of the social aspect through the possibility that the municipality might have to comply with the requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1600	I thank you for your answer. I'm a little surprised that the Council of State doesn't have a more principled approach, or maybe that's exactly what the Council of State has. I think we are moving here in a border country as to what should be allowed to be privatised, and it is a fundamental question, which is not about what municipalities earn money on or not. It is clear that questions can be asked about whether it is profitable for a municipality to provide services, for example: local housing tenants, who are often going to be disadvantaged persons, make their debt grow sharply through the high collection salaries of some private companies. But first of all, this is about who is responsible for dealing with those who fall outside our society, and what is the best strategy to help them on their feet again – and whether it is public that can offer it, or whether it is Lindorff who can offer it. Does the Council of State think that we are not even approaching a frontier country here or a need for a borderline for what kind of tasks can be privatised?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1611	In this case, we are far from the limit I believe it is natural to set for tasks that can be entrusted to private companies or not. A fundamental principle of the Government's approach to the local government sector and principles for the government's governance of the local government sector are, on our side, marked by trust. We want a great degree of decentralization. To a large extent, we want to give local politicians responsibility for developing good services to citizens without unnecessary state interference. Unlike the representative, Bjørlo Lysbakken, I have great confidence that local politicians in each municipality are able to choose the solutions that are served by the inhabitants, including in this area. I see no need to intervene in the ability of local politicians to choose their own solutions in relation to how municipal requirements are to be recovered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1618	The answer was so clear that further follow-up questions are not really necessary in addition to concluding that even though some solutions can give the municipalities more money, it is not that you can always put similarity between it and giving the best possible offer to those sitting at the bottom of the table, who make the most weak. I am afraid that as a result we will see a development in which we will have many complaints of the kind we have had in Bærum. I think it's also the department's task to follow up on this, and that it's not just a local responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1625	In my meeting with local politicians, I learn that they lay more foundations than just monetary considerations. I meet local politicians who are concerned with the development of society as a whole, who are engaged in designing good services for their citizens and who do not facilitate services that make life difficult for them. I also have full confidence that local politicians, regardless of which party they represent in their local government, are well able to find out the good solutions, and I am committed to giving local democracy the greatest possible freedom of action to shape the good local offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1636	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘The decision has been taken to use Stavern clay by the police for course activities. Police districts are forced to pay rentals to Defence Buildings, among others. Oslo Police District pays $3 million. kr per year. In addition, defence construction costs so high that the Oslo police cannot afford to use the camp. Can the Council of State defend the fact that defence builds itself in this way and puts the police in an impossible economic situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1645	For the treatment of Inster. S. No 342 for 2000-2001, cf. St. pp. No 45 for 2000-2001, Stortinget decided that the Air Force Command School and the Air Force School Centre Stavern should be closed. As a result, Stavern’s clay was transferred to the Defence Building disposal project Change Property in the autumn of 2002. Following the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, a lease was concluded between the Ministry of Justice and Defence at Shifte Eiendom on 14 May 2003. The agreement ensured the continued use of Stavern clay as a competence and training centre for the justice sector. I would like to emphasise that the lease agreement today is based on pure cost coverage without profit margin and in line with the wishes of the Ministry of Justice. The rental shall cover the costs of Change of Property for buildings and open spaces in Stavern clay in proportion to the scope of the agreement. If the Ministry of Justice had paid less than cost-covering rent, it would mean subsidising the justice sector over the Ministry of Defence budget, and that is of course not the case. I know that the committee leader, Marit Nybakk, is well aware of economic challenges in the defence sector. As the contract manager on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, it is the Police College that deals with the rental conditions of individual users of the centre in Stavern. The cost of the course for the use of the Centre is therefore also an issue under the Ministry of Justice and not under the Shifting Property. Change Property relates to an overall lease with the Ministry of Justice, and it is therefore not a matter for Change Property to determine whether and to what extent the justice sector uses payment in its use of the Centre of Competence and Education in Stavern. I would also like to refer to questions to the Minister of Justice, Mr Dørum, who was answered by the Minister of Justice on 16 May and 22 May 2002 respectively, and to the meeting in Stortinget on 19 June 2002, on the very rental relationship with Stavern.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1660	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In addition to the co-treatment mentioned by the Council of State, this was a topic when we dealt with the vulnerability message in the autumn of 2002. According to the Oslo police, they pay three times as much in the course fee at Stavern clay, which is owned by Defence Building – or Change Property, or whatever they choose to call it – as they pay when they use the former civil defence camp in North Odal, Hedmark, owned by Stadsbyg. According to the police, the camp in North Odal is also entirely satisfactory for course activities. In addition, Seats are also used in Kongsvinger. Now I understand that much of this is with the Minister of Justice, and that means I have to take this further there. But how can the Council of State at all defend, in any case, that there is such a price difference between what is owned and rented out of State Building and what is owned by Defence Building – and I now understand that it is a little unclear who is taking the price payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1671	To the extent that it is not unclear who is charging the user payment for the Centre, it is the Ministry of Justice's underlying bodies. The agreement of Change Property is directly with the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice has asked the Police Directorate to manage the agreement, and the Police Directorate has again given the administration responsibility to the Police College. This is therefore in many ways a matter which falls within the constitutional sphere of another Council of State. What is my responsibility is to make sure that when the Defence Building rents out to another state agency or actor, there is a minimum cost-effective rent. It's the guidelines that we've accepted in the Stortinget in general, and that's the guidelines that we're dealing with. I am asking for understanding that in terms of details of pricing at user level in the justice sector, it is difficult for this Council of State to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1678	I understand. But there are at least two issues in this case. One is that alternatives other than those owned by Defence Buildings or Shifte Eiendom, including state ones, are more reasonable than those owned by Defence Buildings. That's the one problem. And it's serious enough, because it can mean that defense build prices out of the market. The second is that the police are charged rental costs to Stavern as part of the agreement mentioned by the Council of State. In the long term – after I have understood it – it is the case that both Stavern and Nord-Odal have to be upgraded to meet the demands of the police. According to information from the police, North Odal will make 25 million. kr to become a tip top practice centre, while Stavern clay has to be upgraded by 75 to 100 million. kr. I also mention this, because it might come in addition to the fact that you value yourself in Stavern. The question is whether it is correct that Stavern's camp, that is, under the control of Shifte Eiendom, is intended to be rusted up in this way. In that case, they must also be competitive with the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1687	In this case, the Department of Justice will change ownership, and price negotiations will take place between the Department of Justice and the Department of Justice. In 2002, a lease was concluded for a one-year probationary period. The intentions and assumptions of the first agreement have been continued in a new lease from May 2003, with a ten-year lease term, with the right to a further ten-year extension. So it's not based on the market price. It is based on cost-effective rentals, on the costs of changing Property itself to operate individual buildings. No price adjustment other than a normal price increase has been made in line with the consumer price index. Of course, the extent to which defence construction can upgrade the plant according to the needs and wishes of the justice sector also depends on the extent to which the costs associated with it will be met in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1704	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1710	I have the honour to ask the Minister of Labour and Administration the following questions: «In budget entry. S. No 2 for 2003-2004 the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, on the basis of a proposal from the Government, argued that state-run enterprises could continue their pension scheme in the State pension fund. The rationale was to take into account both the employees, the activities and the conversion of the public sector. What has happened to this until now, and what are the plans ahead to follow this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1719	In St. prp. No 1 for 2003-2004 the Ministry of Labour and Administration announces that they will consider opening the State Pension Fund to develop an adjusted gross pension product. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 2 for 2003-2004 gives the Storting its support. Following this treatment in Stortinget, as you know, the Pension Commission has submitted its recommendation. The government has announced that, in the light of the suspension of the Pension Commission, the Government will promote a downturnal message, and we intend to deliver it so that the Storting can deal with the new pension system in spring 2005. The Pension Commission has put our entire pension scheme into the cast. We're facing what's probably going to be big changes, and we're facing what I see as a fairly quick clarification of big, important questions about what our pension system is going to look like in the future. In the light of this recognition, I have considered the question of giving the State Pension Fund the opportunity to develop an adjusted gross pension product, but I have come to the conclusion that it does not seem appropriate at this stage. I would therefore like to await a further opening for product development in the State Pension Fund until our future pension system is clarified, and until the Stortinget has dealt with the announced growth message, hopefully already in the spring. Once the Storting has addressed the notification, we are familiar with the framework of the future pension scheme, and it provides better opportunity to assess what the product spectrum of the State Pension Fund should look like, well adapted to the future pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1737	I thank you for your answer. I still think there is something that is not entirely related here. The fact that the Johnsen Committee was set up and wanted to make a recommendation on the overall pension scheme in Norway was well known when the government presented the budget last autumn. It was the Government that, in its budget proposal, wanted the Stortingen to agree to develop the type of product to which the Council of State now refers. The size in the setting gave its connection to it. I can't believe the reason could be the Pension Commission's suspension. It was actually to come a little earlier, but at least it had to come in the spring of 2004, so it could not have been anything new when it was put down. I wonder if there might be other reasons why you are now choosing to put this on ice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1746	I want to underline what I said in my first answer. It is that in a situation where our entire pension system is in the loop, where we realize that after the downgrading treatment we are going to see quite extensive changes in the pension system, it does not seem appropriate from my point of view that the State Pension Fund is now running a product development related to the framework of the current pension system. I perceive that it would be appropriate to await the treatment of the Storting for the future pension scheme. It will provide the State Pension Fund with better opportunities to adapt its product spectrum to the future pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1751	I fully agree that of course this too must be seen in the context of our large pension scheme. But it's not like that when the government asks for membership of something from the Storting and Stortinget, so in its comments it gives quite clear leads for that to be done, that the Government itself can find out that no, we don't want to do it anyway – it's actually something that gives direction to the work to be done. The main question here is whether employees who have their plans in the State Pension Fund and who are then relocated by the fact that the organisation of the business is different should be able to continue their pension scheme in the State Pension Fund. It is not a question that may necessarily wait until the overall treatment of pensions is completed, at least until all the changes in the systems are in place. So I have two questions: is the Council of State in principle in agreement with the Stortinget's objective that employees who are being converted will still be able to maintain their arrangements in the State Pension Fund? And how can you ensure that if you wait for the entire pension reform to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1760	A decision The Workers' Party took part in the spring of 2003, which provided for a further exemption from State companies NSB and Posten, empowers the companies themselves to decide how to design the content of the pension scheme and the supplier to be selected. There is full opportunity for these companies to maintain their customer relationship in the State Pension Fund. The State Pension Fund will continue to deliver a fully-fledged pension product to these ASs. The task of the State is to offer products, but it is therefore the companies themselves who choose the content of pension schemes and who will provide the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1765	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-28.ana.ud2420e1776	There is no record.
