ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e44	The representative Synnove Konglevoll, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Hallgeir H. Langeland on leave from 13 December to 17 December, and from the representative of Brother Ynge Rahm on leave from 14 December to 17 December, both to attend the 10th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Climate Convention in Buenos Aires. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Rogaland County: Ingrid FiskaaFor Telemark County: Inger Stokstad
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e82	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week. The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e89	I think there's a little misunderstanding here. I'm the one who got the assignment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e96	All right. I'm sure it'll work out for you.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e99	I have the pleasure of putting forward a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Øyvind Waksdal, Lodve Solholm, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, Magnhild Meltvej Kleppa and myself to immediately introduce remedial measures to allow vehicle trains with a height of over four metres to pass through the Haukeli tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e104	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that this morning's meeting be interrupted for the Grand Stortinges Christmas Day at 0 p.m. 13.45 p.m. and I'll see you again at 13.45 p.m. 16 for tonight's meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e121	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President proposes that the representative, Jan Simonsen, be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line by up to five lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of each party group and after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e132	This is the last budget debate in this flooding period. It is then time to raise your eyes and look beyond the individual budget line to try to get hold of the big lines. We have had the same government throughout the entire period, so the tracks should be clear, and they should be possible to read. We have a Right-Registration, at least a Right-Registration, chosen to conduct Right-Registration. So the tracks we should see should be called Right-track, something else would be weird. You have to have a lot of good will, and not least a lot of imagination, whether what you see, can be characterized as visionary, or are expressions of willingness to bet on research and education. This sector has also been sacrificed at the tax age. Four years ago, Stortinget adopted the latest research report. We adopted four thematic fields of action. We decided to increase our investment in basic research, and not least we had a goal — if not very ambitious — in the field of research training. 250 new scholarship positions were to be awarded each year. The Government, in its Communication on Recruitment to Scientific Positions, considered these objectives to be too ambitious and suggested increasing the number from 250 to 350 new scientific positions each year. It could indicate commitment and perhaps also the willingness to bet on the science education, but it was forgotten almost before the ink had dried. In the year’s budget, i.e. the 2003–2004 budget, 200 new scholarship holders are added. For next year, in the budget we are discussing today, there are proposed 100 new scholarship holders, i.e. 250 below or barely 30 pst. of what the Government considered necessary less than two years ago. SV suggests using 160 million. kr extra to achieve this objective, an objective for which there was broad political agreement. It's also maybe at least a layer. We should've had almost 200 million. kr to provide the necessary resources to create the number of scholarship positions foreseen for approx. two years ago, and as the government thought was necessary as a consequence of them thinking that the Storting had previously been too little ambitious. Recognising that research is the key to future value creation, a total increase decided that Norway would be at the OECD average level of research efforts by the end of 2005. At that time, the average for OECD countries was approx. 2.3 pst. GDP. Norway’s efforts were barely 1.7 pst. Then a lot of fun can be done about percentages of GDP as a target -- it's moving, and all variables change every year. By the end of 2005, we will approach 1.8 pst. of GDP for research — the total research effort, both public and private. The OECD average is almost unchanged. So it's possible we've taken a little step – from 1.7 to 1.8 pst. – towards the target. Finland is at the top, among the countries that spend the most on research. The fact that we are far behind Finland in research obviously does not concern the State Council to the extent that Finland scores better than we do in primary school skill tests. A wide range of competences for the adult population was the aim of the adoption of the skills reform by the Stortinge in the previous period. There was a vision that now was the time for those who had not been given the opportunity before. The survey also promised that learning would take place outside the established education systems, and provided a count of real skills both as a curtailment of training courses and as an entry ticket to educational institutions. Distance learning and adult training institutions, together with public education institutions, were to be important contributors. Throughout this period, the Government has attacked adult training organisations. The county councils have also not been provided with resources, even though the Stortinge assumed when we dealt with the reform, that it should be fully financed. I understand that it is good right-wing policy to assume that adults themselves get to pay the cost of education. But then I also expect them to say it clearly, so that we all have it to deal with, and do not give skins of anything else. For us who still believe that empowerment for the adult population is the key to continued productivity growth, and not least a justice requirement from the part of the population that did not have access to education when they were younger, the goal and ideals of the reform are equally alive. Therefore, SV promotes proposals both to strengthen the county economy and to earmark funds for this type of training, and we also strengthen adult training institutions and information organisations. During this period, we have removed earmarked grants for the camp schools, for the SFOs and for the cultural schools. The removal of earmarked grants does not have to be wrong, rather the opposite. However, the vote is that the removal takes place at the same time as the municipal sector is subjected to starvation. Landlines are a good example of what's happening. One proposes to leave these to the county councils, while at the same time withdrawing government funding and transferring it to private schools. We would like to discuss the way to organise this part of higher education, but then we cannot ask the county council to take over, while the money used does not get it. We have implemented changes in higher education, with a new degree structure and with professional changes. We still think this was important, primarily for the students. In the 2004 budget, the sector was given what they thought was necessary for the proper implementation of the reform. But from next year, with the budget we're going to adopt today, dismantling begins. With the compromise here in Stortinget, the sector gets a cut of approx. One hundred million. kr. And in the case of the last 20 million. kr, the majority is so honest to say that this is to be taken from training provision in the districts. Now they're going to go ahead with the decentralised offers. It is completely impossible for me to understand why this part of higher education is going to be reduced and reduced. If there is something that has worked well and has given women in particular in the districts the opportunity to take higher education, it is the decentralised education services. The government is trying to cover a cut in the basic allocation to reduce it in the number of students. The justification is not easy to understand at a time when we are getting an increase in the hills in the years to come, an increase that means that more people will demand higher education. What is serious, however, is that the government is trying to make sense that the department is running through figures. With the new funding model adopted by the Stortinget, we have broken the links between targets and funding. So it's not up to the Government and the Department to set targets and say how many students we're going to have. This is the institution itself that decides. The manner in which any cut in the basic appropriations is to be taken out is governed by the institutions. This is just an attempt by the Government to sue the cut. We in SV are proposing 100 million. In order to maintain, in 2005, a financial envelope previously defined as completing the reform. In Nittedal, thousands of people are mobilizing in torch trains to call the primary school. We can continue here in the Stortinget with COSTRA numbers and that the average group size is still low, low compared to the countries we like to compare with. The averages have increased in recent years, that's an inevitable fact. When a thousand people in an average Norwegian municipality go to the torch to defend the school, which is a health sign of democracy, we choose to ignore this by referring to the KOSTRA numbers. For SV, it is equally important to take inwards and an equally important feedback as budget figures and figures for group sizes. The cuts are obviously a fact in many municipalities. Therefore, it is important that we strengthen the municipal economy and strengthen the school and take over the markings and reactions that we see around in Kommune-Norway. The majority of the population has adopted an initial training reform. For 2003, 300 million have been added. kr to a level of competence. But before we've done this, one in Stortinget starts with a compromise there a kitten 15 million. SEK in ICT for the municipalities. The reason for this cut is the 300 million. to enhance the competence of teachers. This does not indicate will, and the traces we see from this period do not indicate that there is a willingness to invest in education and research. I am addressing the proposals where SV is the proposer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e170	The representative Rolf Rikvam has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e175	The entry to the representative Rikvam was very much about what SV is against, and very little about what they are for, and it was very unclear, at least to me, what is SV's alternative to, as they say, the Right track in education policy. One thing, on the other hand, came to light here: that one wanted to strengthen the local economy and thereby strengthen the schools. The SV's draft budget reduces the subsidy to independent schools by 767 million. kr. When we know that parents with children in independent schools do not have a better economy than other parents, we have to assume that most parents cannot afford to pay the price SV thinks parents should pay in health schools. Thousands of students will have to apply to municipal schools with SV's arrangements. Unfortunately, there is no money in SV's alternative education budget – the money is spent on MiniStorting at Strand secondary school, judo project at Selfor's school and other of SV's priority areas. How does SV feel that the public general school is getting better by imposing extra costs on municipalities in the billions class without compensating for this? Does SV think that narrower municipal economy is the solution to get a good municipal school offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e182	In our alternative budget, we have increased the framework for the local government sector by slightly over 5 billion kroner. That's where we make our policies visible, that's where we make our alternatives visible, and we assume that when the municipalities get more freedom of action, more room for action, they will give priority to school. Everything suggests that municipal politicians and local communities are willing to defend the school. They have so far protected the school from cutting, and it deserves to be praised by the local politicians, but now there is a point where they have no more to take off, so now they are also beginning to cut the education budget. With our alternative budget, the local government sector will receive over DKK 5 billion more, and we assume, based on the experience we have with local politicians, that the vast majority of this will strengthen the education sector. Therefore, we believe that there is reasonable reason to cut in private schools as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e187	Two things, first of all: the parents and children who choose to go to independent schools make a free choice. Thankfully, thanks to the good help of the Advance Party, we have put in place legislation that makes such choices possible. But what is SV supposed to do to stop this option? So one thing is to move the money – cut the money by 40 pst. – from young people who choose independent schools, and give priority to public schools, but another thing is to influence free choice. If you want to make a legislative change, you want to deprive private schools of the opportunity to operate – is that what's behind it? Is it forced from SV to make parents and children choose public school? The representative himself has referred to PISA and Finland. Is it the case, with SV's eyes, that there is a lack of resources alone or as a dominant factor that explains that Norwegian school is lagging behind? Or is there a lack of content, a lack of content?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e194	The best bulwark against the privatisation of the school is a good public school, cf. what I referred to in the municipality of Nittedal, where a thousand people go on torches. If public schools continue to be built up, these parents may end up applying for private solutions. But at the moment that we have a good public school, with good resources, with good teaching material, etc., I feel fairly confident that it is the very best bollery against the privatisation of our education system, and that is going to fight for and fight for. As far as the law is concerned, Sortevik knows what we mean. We've dealt with the law here in Stortinget, where we had our alternative suggestions. That's our answer on the law page. But the great best bobs, the great best way to prevent the privatisation of the school – and perhaps the only way to prevent the privatisation of the school – is to provide the public school with financial resources so that it is able to provide a good education offer, so that parents and students feel that the education offer is good and meets their needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e201	The representative Reikvam tried to focus on the broad lines of education policy throughout this last period and put research in focus. As far as research is concerned, it is also true that we have some challenges that relate primarily to primary education, because if we are to get good research, we also need to have good basic education, and especially in the real subjects, to which the PISA study focuses. The government has launched the Knowledge promise in primary school by raising teachers' competences, increasing hours and new curricula with clearer learning objectives. But I can't see that SV addresses the challenges presented by the PISA study. SV says no to a national school quality assurance system. What is SV’s response to the challenges identified by the PISA study?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e206	There are many answers that must be given in relation to the PISA study, but when said, we must not allow ourselves to tear down and believe that the picture that PISA is drawing is the whole picture of the situation in Norwegian school. But it's drawn a picture of an area that's important, and we're going to take it inside. There is a need to take seriously that Norwegian students score worse than Finnish students in real science – mathematics, natural sciences, etc. Our answers include: to do something about the resource situation. That is clearly a problem. We can't get away with that. We have to take it inwards. We can't cover ourselves behind KOSTRA numbers, we can't hide behind the fact that the size of the group is lower in Norway than in other countries. Part of the answer lies in the resource situation. So I also think parts of the answer are in empowerment. Of course. We support the proposal for a level playing field for teachers. Clearly, we need to do something about teacher training in order to strengthen it. That's absolutely necessary. In the past, we have made proposals to expand teacher training, but we have not been able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e215	Several have not asked for the word for a line. - Is there anyone I've missed? Sure, Raymond Robertsen. I have to get a sign!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e221	It may be that I am so small that I am not seen in the hall!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e226	Your hand is big enough, but the pencil you held is small!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e229	It's okay. I will follow up on the answer given by Rikvam on my reply. One thing I should like to thank you for, and that is that, unlike any other party in the Stortinget, they remain within the framework of the committee. So I can say that I see SV as a serious party. But when it comes to what Rikvam said from the pulpit, where he complained about all the things that they had put into the budget – this goes with SV, we put it in, and we put it in – I believe in many ways that SV operates unrently in relation to the municipalities. Because if SV had been quite busy, they would have taken all the money they had cut in independent schools, and assigned them to the municipalities, because they know that the extra bill will be there. So I feel in many ways that what you do on the SV side is a big bluff to the municipalities. The municipalities are at risk of getting an extra bill in the billions class with SV's plans. And then there will be many more demonstration trains, to which the representative Requam referred from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e236	Robertsen is trying to draw a picture that the two billion we spend in private schools are something that comes from somewhere, from above. They don't. This money comes from the municipalities. A large part of this is funds drawn from the municipalities. Each municipality receives a move in its framework grant for each student who is in private schools. Then, of course, you can discuss how big this move is. Per. Today, it is probably a little lower than the cost of having this student in private school. My point is that you don't have to draw the picture that the two billions we spend on this are money that comes from somewhere. It is the municipalities themselves that finance this to a large extent. And at the moment these students go back to the municipal school, which I want them to do, in the community that is there, and together with the students that they really belong to naturally in their local environment, the municipalities will get back a good deal of the funds that per. Today, they are being withdrawn – they are being taken back to the municipalities, to the municipal public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e243	The representative of Rikvam is quite right that this money does not come from above, they come from the state. But they're going to the students. They are not, in the eyes of the Progress Party, earmarked local government and different priorities in different local governments, but they are money that is earmarked for the free choice of students and parents. And that's because this system representative from SV will change, will put an end to it, that parents and schoolchildren can choose school freely. On the part of the Progress Party, we regret that the same system does not apply throughout the school sector. It is not up to the individual local governments and the individual local government representatives to decide whether or not the money intended for schooling for Norwegian students is coming out. Fortunately, SV is unable to control what goes to independent schools, but we should therefore wish that we could manage the rest of the money up to the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e250	The money that goes to private schools does not come from the state, they come mainly from the municipalities, but not alone. They come from a feature of the framework grant. The municipalities get laid for every student who goes to private schools, and then it gets distributed to the private schools. So this is a loss for the municipalities. At the moment these students weren't in private school, at the moment that a municipality didn't have students in private school, they would have gotten more in the framework grant, because you wouldn't withdraw this amount. That's the actual ratio. That's how it works. How much of the two billion that are withdrawn from the municipalities, I don't have a whole number on, but I think that approximately. half of this is withdrawn from the local government sector. It would have gone back to the municipalities, and they could have driven the municipal school for this. And so: I think the municipal politicians deserve credit for the willingness to bet on education and school. If someone has invested and wants to invest in education, municipal politicians and municipal politicians. Who's that? Who's that whoops in the country lines? Who is it that cuts in what we have in control of? Yes, it's the state. As far as possible, local politicians are trying to defend the education sector, and they deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e259	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e262	The budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party shows that there is still considerable disagreement regarding educational priorities. As the vast majority of primary school appropriations are given over the municipal budget, it is particularly visible there, but also on the education budget, we see how the right and left sides of Norwegian policy have very different perceptions of what is needed to build the knowledge society. The Labour Party has submitted an alternative budget with a completely different profile from that adopted today by the Government Parties together with the Advance Party. The right-hand side has made a strong effort during this ageing period to remove the issue of resources in the policy debate on education. Fortunately, in public space, the government has received little attention for this argument. Repeatedly we've heard, for example. from the Council of State, that there is no link between learning and resources. Equally many times we have been told that we are one of the countries in Europe that spend the most money on education. Of these two statements, one might draw the conclusion that the Right believes that we either spend too much money on education or use the money incorrectly. At the same time, the government parties experience a complete disclaimer of responsibility in terms of the offer of school leisure arrangements, camp schools and cultural schools. In the opinion of these members, these fields have nothing to do with school policy. This is something we shouldn't care about. After these three years, we have seen that every opportunity is used to hoard about this important offer to our children, instead of focusing on how to raise quality, among other things. in the school leisure scheme. As stated by these members of the Committee, the school shall not be a full-day storage place for the children, but a place of learning. I want to challenge the government parties somewhat in relation to this: what do the government parties really mean by this? Is there any party in this room that actually believes that the entire school leisure system should only be a storage facility? I think it is high time that the government parties got on the track and told us what reality they want our children to have after the school day is over in the 12-13s. That the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that we spend too much money on education is obvious to us in the Workers' Party. After the budgetary agreement was secured, we have received daily feedback from a number of municipalities that it is necessary to make some significant cuts in education, either in teaching positions, in library services or in other types of services. This is regrettable. There's reason to remember that there are over 4,000 fewer teachers in school now than there were in 2,000. We hear about a day-to-day school where classrooms get smaller, there's more students, and there's fewer adults to look out for and to give our children a good knowledge. I think it's just the Right that thinks this is a development in the right direction. The government believes that we spend too much money on education, but fortunately – and the government should be commended for it – money is given to give teachers a boost in their skills. This was clearly agreed by the Quality Committee, and it also gave the Committee in our clear signal that the department should follow up. I am pleased that this is being prioritised, and that there is a broad consensus on this promise. The Labour Party also believes that there is a need to get more teachers into school. By looking at the department's graphs, it may well be that the number of teachers in school has been reduced only slightly in recent years, and that this may not in any way affect students' learning outcomes. But we're beginning to listen to what's being said in the municipalities of those who work at school, and there's a correlation between these factors. As Gudmund Hernes once said, a slanted line is not the same as insight. On the contrary, it can be an example of a biased interpretation. And as the committee leader said in his speech, parents, children and teachers go on torch trains to preserve their school and protest against cuts that in the long run determine the student's learning outcomes. I'm glad that the government parties are increasing the number of hours, even though I would have liked to have seen that we could have been far more ambitious than what we can put in now. But the important thing is that all the parties follow this up in the years that are coming, so we have the opportunity to get a 28-hour school week at primary school. We believe in strengthening the basic subjects of Norwegian, mathematics and languages. We also believe it is important that all students are offered physical activity every day. Publication of the 2003 PISA survey shows that Norwegian students do not do as much as we would have liked in particular. mathematics and natural sciences. Compared to other countries in the survey, we do not claim ourselves well enough. The study shows that there is a significant degree of both trouble and trouble in these hours. In the last few days, we have also seen that there are serious violent tendencies in the Norwegian school. The findings give us a clue that we need to strengthen the public high school. I think the Council of State will bring all the parties in this room. At the same time, there is always a danger that such studies will also be used to promote a particular ideological vision. When learning outcomes, efficiency and productivity become the guiding objectives of basic education, we believe in the Workers' Party that other things can easily be forgotten. It is possible that it cannot be measured quantitatively, but we believe it has a great value in itself that different children, with different origins, of different nationalities, have a common meeting place, and yes have a common reference point. We believe that it helps to strengthen our own identity and build us up as a nation. More than ever before, we need a strong and good public common school where different students can meet, challenge and be stimulated to critical thinking, where equality means giving all students the same opportunities to acquire learning. We need to develop the school so that it's able to include all the students and teach them to tolerate counter-grounds and to work to learn. We need a school that supports the students, but also makes clear demands for the students. So we need to bet on the public high school, and we need to take over all the feedback that comes from the country's students, teachers and parents that there is a need for more skilled teachers, better school buildings, libraries and gyms. If we're really going to get into a culture of learning, the Right-Side must also understand that this is related to knowledge and quality. I would like to address the suggestions made by the Workers' Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e294	The representative of Karita Bekkemelme Orheim has taken up the suggestions she has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e299	In the 2003–04 school year, 180 million were paid. kr in student-tested upper secondary education. This scheme was strongly criticised by the Workers' Party because it has a social profile and provides support only to students with a weak economy. In the setting, the Workers' Party says: ‘These members therefore believe that a need-tested grant that we have today is not a full compensation to the lending scheme.’ The working party will remove the scheme and replace it with a loan scheme, with a framework of 100 million. kr. Two simple questions: how can 100 million? kr give loan books in all courses to all students when it costs SEK 180 million. kr to provide free books in all subjects for approx. 50,000 students? The Workers' Party proposes less money for a loan scheme than the Government spends on the grant scheme. Why is it more important to borrow one book for all students than to secure free books for those with a weak economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e313	As the representative ine Marie Eriksen knows, we have a completely different approach in this field from that of the government parties. There is no doubt that ideally the amount of school books should be far higher than what is being granted today, including in our alternative budget. But unlike the Right, we want to have some universal arrangements that go to all the students, so you don't get stigmatisation. We do not want to get a check-up society in the future, where the state can give some gifts to those who are most in need, but that into 2005 we will have public welfare schemes that will allow everyone to have the opportunity to participate in them. In the long term, there will be greater differences between people. We have many small municipalities today, where there are transparent communities where it will be very clear which of the children have poor parents. That's what the Workers' Party doesn't want, so we also have a different system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e319	I listened and listened to the representative from the Workers' Party, but I heard nothing about the Workers' Party's alternative budget. I have a question about that. The working party also cuts heavily in Chapter 228, Subsidies to independent schools, etc. – a total of 525 million. kr. If I have read the position of the municipal committee correctly, about the Workers' Party's proposal there, they have a proposal to increase the framework grant to the municipalities at about. 850 million. kr. It must mean – and I would like to have a comment on it – that the Workers' Party actually spends most of what they spend on additional funding in the framework grant to the municipalities to receive the schoolchildren they hunt from private schools to public schools. So for the PISA study. The Workers' Party is very busy filling up with teachers. Can we now see the effect over a long period of time: yielding as a learning strategy has been less successful, and one has confused activity with learning?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e326	As for the last time the representative of Sortevik addressed it, at least I have said very clearly after this investigation was published, that all the parties that have been in government have to take responsibility for the results that are now coming out. The Labour Party has no problem taking that debate with the government parties and with the Progress Party. It was also the background for the Workers' Party in its time to bring down the Quality Committee, to focus on how we can increase learning outcomes and raise the level in the Norwegian school. That was the background for the quality selection to be brought down in its time. As you can see, many of the parties here in the Chamber can agree to strengthen the basics of the years that are coming, as the majority said in ours. So until that representative said about our alternative budget. I chose not to focus on all the details in the budget, but I have that note here. I expect that the representative has read the setting with all the details we have in our budget for education.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e333	Our committee is called the Kuf Committee – it is also a K for the Church. In order not only to become an UF, I would like to challenge the representative of Beckællem Orheim to something that stands in the church chapter: ‘In order to maintain a broad and committed church of the people, the majority believe that baptism training is an important prerequisite.’ The Workers' Party has comments in the equality setting, on strengthening the cathedral and Nidaros, etc. But as we see from the statement on page 85, the Workers' Party is the only party that cuts in the grant of religious education, which is 20 million. kr. The question is then: how can the Workers' Party believe that we can achieve a good religious training reform, which we agreed on at the time of its adoption, by cutting the allocation so that only the congregations that have already begun last year will be able to test out this reform that is so important to our people's Church?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e343	I have to say that I think it is quite incredible to be met with criticism from the very Christian People's Party when it comes to the bet in this field. The Christian People’s Party now sits with the Church Councils, but around the country’s municipalities we see that our church buildings are decaying. The representative of Skarbøvik knows very well that we agreed to give a majority in order to get a baptism training in place. However, because of the overall budgetary situation, to which the Government repeatedly refers in its own budget, the Workers' Party does not consider it appropriate to make the effort that the Government considers necessary. When the representative Elsa Scarbøvik arrives at both Nidaros and Oslo Cathedral, I would like to remind you that the government parties are cutting themselves. If it hadn't been for the Progress Party, there wouldn't be any more money for Nidaros.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e350	During several labor party governments, the Church has strengthened the number of performances, which has been absolutely necessary. A new prosthesis reform has been introduced which requires that the prosthesis be relieved of a number of tasks and some of the services performed by the prosthesis must be performed by others. My question is: Does the Workers' Party believe that the staff in the Church today is sufficient, or does the Workers' Party also see that there is a need for more posts around the churches? We see today that some church positions that are municipally funded are actually being cut off because of the church economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e357	The representative at the Kjärlaa addresses an important issue that does not get too much focus in this room too often. I want to say that we know that the priests who work in the Norwegian Church today also do important social work many times. And we also know that many people are in excess of what is right in relation to normal working hours. This is again about priorities, and what we have the opportunity to absorb from appropriations for different purposes. But there is no doubt that the Workers' Party believes this is important. And as far as possible, we will go far in order to have a sound standard also in the case of priests in the Norwegian Church in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e362	I notice that the representative, Mr. Bekkemelm Orheim, would not go into detail about the Workers' Party's alternative budget, but I do. So for a long time, the Workers' Party has used a rhetoric that is about giving free education to everyone. And that's good and good to have as a goal. The representative, Bekkelem Orheim, said that she would rather have seen that the amount of the loan arrangement had been higher. But it does not stand as a believer when the Workers' Party is the only party in the Committee that cuts in the framework for educational purposes. There won't be any more money from that. Had it been a lack of willingness to give priority to, for example: a loan arrangement, so the Workers' Party would have deposited that money. But the money doesn't exist. And at the top of it all, it was cut in the frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e369	I can reassure the representative ine Marie Eriksen that this representative is very proud of the alternative budget presented by the Labour Party. There can be no doubt about that. As for the cuts we've made in education, I have to say that I think it's quite right from the overall situation we've come into, with the reinforcement that's been of the private schools these years, that we actually cut in the appropriations for the private schools. In fact, we believe that there are so many other important welfare purposes in this society that we think it is absolutely legitimate to go for it cut. This is politics, it's ideology, and the Workers' Party will absolutely recognize the cuts we've made in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e376	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e379	The 2005 budget is a continuation of the government's targeted and strong efforts to strengthen the quality and content of our entire education system. Over the major period, budgets have been increased and measures taken to bring education up to a quality level that is closer to the best of the countries to which we should be able to compare. The quality reform in higher education has been implemented and fully funded. Here we can already see happy results. Several students complete their studies in normal time, and with good results. The number of higher education students is at the same time at an historically high level. Research appropriations have grown over the entire period, as well as industry's own research and industry's co-financing in different areas of research show strong growth. The tax incentive schemes implemented in this area have a positive effect. In this area, too, quality and relevance are at the centre of attention, and Norwegian researchers claim well in several areas in the international context. In primary and secondary schools, culture of learning is now being introduced, while the number of hours spent in childhood has been greatly increased. In order to strengthen the teaching of basic skills, the first school years are extended by 12 teaching hours during the ageing period. In addition, teacher training has changed and improved. In total, this action will bring Norwegian school from the mediocre and poor to a school system of content and quality at the international level. It deserves our children and young people. It is absolutely necessary to create jobs and maintain our competitiveness, and not least: it is absolutely necessary to ensure our future welfare development. All these positive measures have been proposed by the Government, adopted by the Stortinget and implemented before the publication of new PISA results in the last days. Much can be said about this study, which bases its conclusions on the data collected from 2003. In this context, however, I would just like to note that the need for the measures and reforms that have been implemented has been made more visible and underlined. There is also reason to point out that the opposition, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre can hardly be called a driving force in this reform process – rather the opposite. The Socialist Left Party still seems to be suspended in the happy 68 reform pedagogy, the Workers' Party in School and Leisure Schemes and the Centre Party in Schools. The complexity of socialists in relation to the need for the renewal of pedagogics, methods, curricula and academic content in schools, especially in relation to quality and professional skills, is almost striking. The PISA survey is in many ways an unwarranted confirmation that it was absolutely necessary to settle with the whole of L97 and the school-political and pedagogical thinking that permeates this plan. The culture of learning — or the promise of knowledge, as the reform is also called — emphasises inter alia: basic skills, quality and content requirements for the subjects, new curricula in all subjects, with clear and clear objectives, national tests and greater educational freedom for the individual teacher. These are some of the measures that are now being worked out and implemented on an ongoing basis. This is followed up by the State budget, mainly through a strong commitment to continuing training for teachers. About 500 million. in the next year's budget, the maximum amount of continuing education and training for this important professional group is set at ever. I have, in various contexts, highlighted the importance of teachers in creating a good school. It is very positive that most of these resources will be managed locally, following the development of concrete action plans in each municipality and based on the local needs identified, in order to achieve the skills objectives of new curricula. I do not think it will be difficult to predict that training needs are high in a number of subjects, but now teachers can look forward to many good offers of continuing training within their respective disciplines. Provided that the cooperating government parties win the election next autumn, the government has already promised that this bet will continue for several years, with a cost framework of NOK 2-3 billion. I find reason to commend our cooperation partner The Progress Party for tidy and orderly budget negotiations. Through re-priorities in the committee, we have put in place the travel allowance for those who need it the most, that is. students with the highest travel costs. And the landlines are continuing. Here the Government is asked to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of the entire country line system, with a view to more sustainable and stable framework conditions for the future landline services. The existing state budget provides a good basis for the implementation of the Knowledge Commitment in Primary School and for the continuation of the Quality Reform in Higher Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e402	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e406	It was a strange way to deal with a reform: the principles and general objectives are passed on. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. The PISA study has received a broad review in recent years. Three important prerequisites for good learning are identified. One is that one has a good working environment – anxiety, which negatively affects learning, is increasing. The second is the relationship between student and teacher, which has to do with the size of the groups. And the third is good teacher support – probably teachers. In Clemet and Right State Council, we've had more trouble at school. We've got bigger groups, and we've got fewer teachers. Does the Right believe that this has been a positive development?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e413	There are no technical points of reference – neither in practice nor in available research material – to substantiate the claims made by the representative Bjørnstad. On the contrary, this government has placed far greater emphasis on the importance of the teacher in creating a good learning environment: creating a good working environment – good cooperation between the students and between the students and the teacher as head of the student group – in order to achieve the good professional results. It is also not correct that there have become larger groups in school. The average group size — if one takes the number of pupils divided by the number of teachers — is approximately. 12 students per teacher. If that has led to larger groups, it's a rewrite of the actual result. To this end, with the continuation of the objectives of the curriculum: what is mentioned in the PISA study is, among other things: That we have unclear curricula, and we're doing something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e422	The Government Parties and the Advance Party have committed a frontal attack on decentralised education in the budget of the year by cutting 20 million. kr, which means a disaster for many who live in the districts. The commitment to decentralised education has been one of the most targeted levels of competence for District Norway. It has, among other things, ensuring that young women in the districts can combine care professionals with training at their place of residence. It has ensured competent public sector labour – in hospitals, schools and kindergartens and in healthcare. One study shows that approximately 90 pst. by those taking a decentralised education, they become residents in their districts. The cut means that the whole country is reduced by a wide range of professional offers. What the Government and the Advance Party have done is totally incomprehensible to me. My question to the representative Voie and the government is: can he explain to the Storting why this cut is coming, and what will be the consequence of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e431	Decentralised education is, in principle, an important part of the activities of the entire higher education system. On the part of the government parties, we see this as part of the ordinary offerings of the colleges, which they carry on for the day-to-day. The subsidy to which the representative Lena Jensen refers has not been removed, it has been reduced. This has been an incentive — to increase the number of decentralised services. That's what we got. And we've now asked the Government to look at how the total colleges can perform this function and their regional policy role and function in an even better way. Using the 7.4 billion kroner we're going to grant to colleges, this is going to be cut – 20 million. kr – a very small item, which is not crucial for getting good, decentralised higher education in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e438	In the extension it is tempting to add that this frontal attack is about approx. 1/4 pst. But I asked for the floor to ask the representative from the Right how the Right would invite the parents to meet the challenges that the PISA studies – and I stress both studies – have now shown over time that the school is facing. Parents are a significant resource. It is often said on festive occasions, and it was also strongly underlined when we dealt with St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, but we need them now, and the students need them now. How will the Right invite parents to take up the many things we need to do in Norwegian school, based on this reading from both PISA surveys?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e448	I fully agree with Mr Sortevik that parents are an important resource for the school. They are an important resource for the learning environment in school, and they are an important resource for teachers if they can and will develop good cooperation with students. I have very little faith that we get parental assistance through a decision in Stortinget or through a law. I think this is very much dependent on what's happening at local level, where we've now suggested that the school should use local freedom of action in a much better way and not least local action and develop good relations. There's a lot of variation between schools. I believe in spreading the good news, spreading experience from the schools that get it to, from the local environments and the municipalities that get it to, to the places where this doesn't work as well. I have very much faith that this can help to improve the quality of school and not least develop the scope of school to participate in social activities, cultural activities or whatever it may be.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e460	The representative Voie characterizes the Central Party as old-fashioned in relation to school policy. I just have to remind you that, in terms of the big message Culture for learning, a broad consensus is in common strengthening measures for our school. But because we're busy with the branch school, we're kind of old-fashioned. I want to ask the representative Voie whether he is not worried that someone around the municipality of Norway chooses to organise the training and school structure for economic reasons, and not for educational reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e467	One of the important principles of the commitment to competence, Culture for Education, which is now being put into action at school, is to raise awareness of the school owner, the municipality, and the county council for secondary schools, about how important it is to focus on the content of school, on the quality of school, on what happens within the four walls of school, and not just be concerned about where the school is located, how the school building is financed, and how it looks. Without mobilising greater interest, greater motivation – cf. what the representative of Sortevik also asked for instead — with the parents to join the school owner in educational arrangements and educational content, I think it is terribly difficult for the Stortinget to decide that we should get a better school. It's just a little bit of what's the basics of the whole reform that we're now implementing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e474	At least the representative of Voie is supposed to be honest. He thanked for the help he had received from the Progress Party to correct the most unsocial cuts in his own budget. I think it is commendable that he expresses himself on this platform. I would like to ask the representative Voie some very clear questions: Why did the government cut over 4,000 study places? Why did the Government cut off the landline? Why did the government cut the travel allowance? Why did the government cut in student homes? Why did the government cut the distance education?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e481	During this major period, the Government and the government parties, supported by the Stortinget, have implemented the largest reform ever implemented in higher education. It's fully funded. It has itself been accepted and approved by the sector. We are now implementing one of the major reforms in primary and secondary education to improve quality, the professional content of school. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to invest in a significant level of teacher competence, not only in the new teachers who are trained, but in particular in the teachers who are in school today and who have not received the training they were entitled to when they went to the educational institutions. This has led to a need for priority. And if that happens so wrong that the Workers' Party will once again enter the government position in the foreseeable future, they will also come into a situation where they will set up a budget and will have to choose between a number of good measures. Then it may also happen that Karita Bekkemelm Orheim – if she is right in the future – will come in exactly the same situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e489	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e492	Let me first remind you that in the budgetary agreement between the Progress Party and the Government Parties of the Financial Committee, which was continued by the Government's 2005 budget decision, there are three important progress parties on the subject of the Church, Education and Research Committee. The scheme of interest-free loans for the upgrading of school buildings receives DKK 1 billion in replenishment instead of Government proposals on 0. That's good news for students, for parents and for municipalities. Following the same arrangements, a new loan scheme for church buildings will be introduced, adding 500 million. kr. This is a good solution for the Church, which in this way gets a comprehensive and increasing maintenance problem remedied. It is also a good news for the municipalities, which have the maintenance responsibility for the church buildings. Let me add that the Progress Party hopes this is the beginning of a system that will go over several years and with more money, so that we get a promise regarding the necessary maintenance of our churches. It's about taking care of our cultural heritage. Last, but not least, 25 million. SEK for the start-up of a scheme of rent subsidies for independent schools. Start-up takes place from the school year 2005/2006. This has been an important matter for all private school owners over many years. The Progress Party is pleased that the scheme is in place and assumes, of course, that an assessment of needs and allocation principles and a plan for stepping up rent subsidies are being made. Also in the field of the Church, Education and Research Committee, there has been agreement between the Progress Party and the Government Parties. The agreement includes, inter alia: 58 million re-prioritisation. kr, not a very large amount in relation to the overall framework of the Committee, but nevertheless the maximum amount of changes in the amount of the financial envelope over the last three years. It moved in at 34 million. SEK in 2003 and 39 million. kr for the current year. The Progress Party has had clear objectives in the negotiations, and in our view, the results are well in line with the objectives. It has been important for the Progress Party to reject another attack on the landlines. This has been done by the Progress Party. It's going back 21 million. kr in 2005 and it is stated in a joint note: ‘Strengthening means that the financing arrangements for the current system of landlines are not changed in the first half of 2005.’» The Progress Party has now brought together the entire Committee for a joint note on the future of national lines, including: points out that the evaluation of the organisation and funding of the schools and lines covered by the National Line Scheme will be submitted to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner before, and I underline before, the treatment of the revised national budget in spring 2005. It does not mean text in a column of the revised budget, which means case submitted for examination before revision. I expect this to be noticed by the Council of State, as the government's own parties are also involved in sending the order. So to the negotiating objective of the Progress Party No. 2, i.e. travel assistance for students. The Government has proposed to remove the travel-stop scheme in Norway and the Nordic region from the 2005/2006 educational year. The Agreement between the Contracting Party and the Government Parties provides for the continuation of the travel allowance. However, the facility on the grant has changed somewhat, there have been two trips per year. years instead of three, but there will still be a grant scheme. The system is also better targeted at those with the highest travel costs through increased self-interest. The agreement is therefore good news for the students. Through negotiations, the Progress Party has secured the Parental Committee for Primary School, FUG, a continuing independent position, by maintaining its own chapter and post. This is in line with what the majority of the committee, all parties except the government parties, said St.meld. No 30 for 2003–04, Culture for learning, was discussed earlier this year, on 17 June. The majority were particularly clear at this point that: ‘The role, responsibilities and organisational link and location of the FUG shall be maintained’. Nevertheless, the department has moved FUG to the Education Directorate. Under this new chapter, FUG has been mentioned, and reference is made to Innst. S. No 268 for 2003-2004 in the context of St.meld. No 30, but not to the majority's comment on the location of the FUG. The Progress Party is particularly concerned with ensuring parental influence – increasing parental influence and the introduction of parental leave in school. In fact, it becomes quite provocative that such a clear political announcement about the Parental Committee for Primary School is being translated into the ministry. The Progress Party is pleased that its own chapter and mail are being continued. We would prefer to see a higher amount than what has passed from this year. The Progress Party shall continue to seek to address this matter in the revised budget. There is reason to subtract the line from this budget point to today's current school debate, where Norwegian school is again measured against other countries' schools. With poorer results in 2003 than in the 2000 survey, Norwegian school remains as a loser, and also in a humiliating jumbo place: Norwegian students fight most. Thank you very much. In the Progress Party, we believe that a large-scale commitment from parents can be an important contribution to removing the problem at school. Then it is important that the Parental Committee for Primary School is available, that it can work independently as a national body for parents, and that FUG is provided with resources to provide parents across the country with information, help and support. Let me say that of course the Progress Party is also pleased that there were a few million more to private colleges and a few million more in grants to higher education textbooks. But let me also be quite clear that there are things the Progress Party has not done. We'd like 58 million. NOK a few more times! Unfortunately, we have not been able to move the government parties to re-establish their places of study, especially in universities and scientific colleges. We do not seem to be a good follow-up to the Quality Reform. We lack money to start construction for important buildings that are ready for construction, and we lack money for further work on the design of priority buildings that are still under planning. Good construction is one of the pillars of the Quality Reform. Therefore, we are not satisfied with the lack of money to ensure project progress. However, our overall assessment has been that there has been a good agreement also within the framework of the Church, Education and Research Committee. As a basis for its alternative budget in the Financial Committee, the Progress Party has also made a detailed draft budget for the Framework Area 17. It has been included in the budgetary position. However, on the basis of the agreement between the Progress Party and the Government Parties, we have chosen not to provide an alternative budget within the framework. We have joint proposals with the government parties with the amendments resulting from the agreement. In addition to this, we are promoting one proposal this time – otherwise together with the Workers' Party. I take up the proposal, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the establishment of a chiropractor study in Norway.’ I refer to the fact that the Storting has on various occasions pointed out the need for increased competence and the strengthening of the multidisciplinary work in the field of musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders. This is an education that many Nordics take abroad. We believe it is time we set up such an education in Norway as well. Finally, the budget contains alerted efforts to increase the competence of teachers in basic education, in line with the decisions taken when we dealt with St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning. In the opinion of the Progress Party, what is fresh means has not been made clear enough. We should like to see a clearer follow-up to the majority decisions then called St.meld. No. 30 was dealt with when, at least on the part of the Progress Party, we tried to point out that what we would have liked to have done clearly was the means from where, and when, so that the good wishes in such an important matter as a level of competence for teachers in Norwegian school were also fully followed, with a clarified resource effort and a statement of where the resources actually come from, and how they are used, for teachers with better skills it is obvious that students, parents and the nation need. I've taken up one of the suggestions we have. Otherwise, we are together with the government parties about the framework disposal itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e554	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e559	In these Christmas seasons, we're busy with wish lists. I've been looking at one particular, and that's the Progress Party's alternative budget. If we quickly add up all the posts that the Progress Party wants to increase, we're going to raise below NOK 1.5 billion only on the education and research budget. So this is going to add up to $25 million. kr for private schools. That's all. At the same time, they accept and are responsible for total cuts in our area of hundreds of millions of dollars. Well, obviously, there's two horses riding here. My claim is that demands and results are not in jeopardy. The question is: does not the Progress Party have ambitions in the field of education, or is education policy a low priority in the party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e566	Now, the Workers' Party, through previous agreements, has good training in learning that there are great distances between wishes and what can actually be achieved in negotiations. I think the Labour Party knows a lot about that. I started by reminding myself of what is in the framework adopted by the Financial Committee. It is in this way that the Progress Party has achieved results for the political disciplines of this Committee. We've got $1 billion more for upgrading school buildings. We've got 500 million. kr for the upgrading of church buildings. And we've put in place an important principle thing. It's not about that many millions of dollars, it's true, but we've got the first $25 million. SEK for a scheme of house rent support for private schools. We think that's a good result before we get started. So we've had the biggest move in three years within the framework of the KUF Committee. We think that's a good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e573	While the representative Bjørnstad was concerned with the wish list of the Progress Party, I can be a little more concerned with the cut list. If we look at the alternative budget of the Progress Party, it's cut into a number of posts in primary and secondary schools. One of the entries in which it is proposed to cut is grants for training in criminal services, with a total of 32 million. kr. How does the anti-criminal policy of the Progress Party coincide with what is at least heard in words that the Progress Party is engaged in? When we know that those who are repeaters in criminal care, especially the young repeaters, have little, poor or no education, and one of the best criminal prevention measures we can take, is just to give this group education, however, the Progress Party will cut very hard in this post. Isn't this a cut that dramatically affects the weakest of the weakest in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e580	First of all, for budgetary reasons, we need to find areas of cutbacks. But we actually believe that this area can be better and more practical, so that we can reasonably essentially get the same effect out of it with a slightly different organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e585	The roadways of the Progress Party are often unanswerable. The views vary from day to day. But in this setting it is even more extreme: the positions change from side to side. On page 62, they write about colleges and their responsibilities – we have a principle that higher education has a regional political responsibility: ‘District and regional policy tasks should not, in the opinion of those members, be included in the tasks of higher education.’;» It's a clear and fundamental point of view for those in it. But then we go on to page 64, where we talk about the College in Tromsø. And then their position changes. In that case, they are in favour of a majority opinion, such as: SV is behind. We are pleased that they support us in something that is just about to take on a regional political responsibility. If we go to page 65, and as far as the Ålesund High School is concerned, they are in favour of another majority comment, where they are among other things. writes: ‘These members therefore believe that the CoE is an important instrument both in regional policy’, etc. Clearly, this can be an expression of political schizophrenia. But is it, or is the pure populism that we here are exposed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e599	It may be that you are exposed to a representative who reads the budget as a certain man reads the Bible. In addition to that, I will confine myself to saying that we support good proposals for education. If other parties have a slightly different wrapping, we have seen the possibility of supporting good education that we believe the referenced institution should be able to continue working with. That is what we have chosen to support, without placing the decisive emphasis on this being primarily district policy; it should be education policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e606	The Progress Party shall be commended for contributing to a budgetary solution this year. But the party shows its original position in its alternative budget. As I can read it, it means a reduction in the Kuf budget of NOK 1.1 billion. Then there is a foreign account with a different budgetary principle from that of the rest of the Storting – just over NOK 1.3 billion. The negotiations showed a result that gave movement on the 25 million-dollar framework. kr, then there was a continuation of the school building loan scheme and a new loan scheme for the churches. I think the Progress Party has shown great flexibility in relation to its initial wishes in the school sector. This was necessary, and they should have praise for it. But what becomes my challenge to the representative of Sortevik is how he will describe his party's profile in the original budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e613	Describing the profile and details of a rather detailed proposal – which is to be read in the budget setting – is difficult in three minutes. But at least let me take some points, which I was actually also in the final part of my main post, where I touched on things in the negotiations that we haven't got into, and that we are therefore less satisfied with. This applies, inter alia, to: higher education, where we are disappointed that we are going back some steps in relation to the steps we have taken in the previous year in relation to the quality reform. We're disappointed that it's being cut in study places. We want, as opposed to what was now the result, to maintain the study places. It is part of our profile to do more for higher education, to maintain the places of study, to do something about the building situation of higher education and to do more with the third pillar of the Quality Reform, namely the conditions of students, among other things. related to the indexation of the cost standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e621	The representative, Rikvam, is talking about political schizophrenia. I see the tracks when I hear the representative Blackevik. He's talking about a lift of skills for school. He's talking about this cut in colleges and colleges. At the same time, they enter and reduce decentralised higher education, which really means something competent around the districts, where people can fill up, take vocational training — teacher training, nurse training or pre-school training. That's what they're up to. I really have to challenge the representative Blackevik to explain something. He apologizes for a cut, and then he kisses further. He's talking about lifting skills, and then he's reducing the opportunities for people to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e628	Our main priorities in higher education are clear: we wanted all places back. If I have read my own manuscript correctly, I have said that we are disappointed that we did not get the government parties involved in relocating at universities and scientific colleges. That was our priority in negotiations. It says itself, and I think the representative from the Central Party also understands that getting back to cover a cut of $78 million. kr at one point in framework negotiations is reasonably unrealistic. But we tried to get some space back. It didn't work out. Actually, it's also part of the profile marker to show you what you didn't get, and what you're still not satisfied with. It's actually fair to say that not all sides of a settlement are as good, and that you haven't achieved everything you wanted in a settlement. But overall -- I think that was the expression -- we're satisfied with the result. We've moved in at 58 million. kr, and it is significantly more than what has been done in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e635	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e638	Learning is a lifelong process. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that learning in school provides the basis for learning in other contexts. Today’s rapid pace of development is increasing the demand for individual workers to keep up to date and gain new knowledge to master today’s and tomorrow’s challenges. Knowledge and competence have become a more important key to business than natural resources and machines. A learning society needs a good school. The Christian People's Party believes that the good school should convey cultural heritage, values and knowledge, but also help children to master, unfold and social development. We will therefore facilitate an active and stimulating learning environment, where it is challenged to learn through exploring self-activity rather than traditional teaching that more passive and responsive learning. By shifting focus from teaching to learning, knowledge becomes a result of a learning process in which the student is involved in developing his or her own skills. A safe school environment with good school facilities stimulates children and young people to learn better. It is also important that the school is assessed and quality assured. We have recently gained new knowledge of learning outcomes in Norwegian school. This shows that Norwegian school has major challenges, especially in relation to the real subjects. The educational culture at school can also be better. When the students say that they are at school but have a poor working environment, they tell us that the school's value work has focused too little on the individual's responsibility for each other's learning environment. It is important that both students and teachers think about what they mean for everyone's learning environment and how they can support each other in learning. We may also have too weak a culture of learning in our country. The importance of knowledge and education to create a better future is not big enough. It's easier to bet on lotto and slot machines. Here I think we have something to learn from several of our new countrymen. Young people from immigrant groups focus more and harder on education, and this is a position the rest of society should take note of. It's just the appreciation of knowledge and education that can provide a better culture of learning. Having said this, I would also like to point out that Norwegian school is doing very well. At the moment, I experience an engaged debate in many schools about how to organise and improve learning. Students, teachers and parents are engaged in this debate. It's good and makes me optimistic. The school surveys carried out in the autumn confirm the analysis behind the announcement of the Cooperative Government in our Culture for Learning. The proposal for a State budget in the field of education for 2005 follows up this communication by starting with the ‘Knowledgelift’. Here, we give priority to developing skills, increasing hours and developing new curricula. We are continuing a number of quality measures and the national quality assessment system. Through the budget agreement with the Progress Party, we continue to maintain the schools through a billion more to the school building loan scheme, and we put in place a system of capital grants for the primary schools. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the commitment to building skills among teachers is one of the most important responses and responses to the challenges posed by the PISA study. The Christian People's Party therefore insists on the goal of spending SEK 2-3 billion on empowerment among teachers over a number of years. We want to give priority to this over new increases in primary school hours. Through the Committee's work on the budget, it has also been important for the Christian People's Party to continue the student travel scholarship and the offers made by the country lines in secondary school. Travel grants are important to give equal rights to education for all young people from all over the country. To achieve that, we have had to re-prioritize from other good purposes, including: the grant of the decentralised offers at the higher education institutions. Higher education institutions are free to give priority to student provision within their budgetary frameworks, and it also allows them to give priority to decentralised educational provision based on the needs of the region and on what can give new students and credits. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government is increasing the appropriation for research with increased focus on petroleum research, seed funds and research fund provision. With regard to user-driven nutritional research, the Christian People's Party likes to see a greater commitment to maritime research. We believe that the Minister of Industry has the opportunity to do so within the limits of the budget. Nine hundred twenty. Otherwise, the Council of State has announced a new paper on research, and that gives us an opportunity for a major research debate. Finally, the Christian People's Party is pleased that today the majority will give new scholarships to some new private colleges, and we get to a transition from fresh schools to private colleges for three schools that have applied for this. The Christian People's Party is also pleased with the commitment to religious training and a new loan arrangement for the maintenance of churches.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e659	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e662	In connection with the allegations that the school's management of the CRL is contrary to the UN Human Rights Commission, the Christian People's Party and the representative Arne Lyngstad were early out there and stated that the Christian People's Party will ring the CRL case, that this subject is important to the school, and that it is important to us as a nation. That's another position that many of us can share. But we know that not everyone shares the representative Lyngstad's view on this matter. I would like to challenge the Christian People's Party and ask: why is it so important for the Christian People's Party that the KRL subject exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e669	The primary school CRL is important, because it is the subject where we can create dialogue across life-vision societies and religions. I think it's important that we have a meeting place for that dialogue. The research also shows that the subject reinforces and confirms the identity of the students from home. This means that the training of faith provided by both the home and the community is reinforced in meeting the subject at primary school. Identities are strengthened. We want the subject to pass. The comment from the Human Rights Commission that we've been given to the subject is a challenge in relation to how we practice the subject. I think we should take seriously the objections that have arisen. We have to look carefully at how we're going to do this. I would like to show that one or two years ago the Stortinge dealt with the CRL subject and made some comments on it. It is important that this setting is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e678	I would like to reiterate that the Progress Party is pleased that together with the government parties we have established a system in which the Parental Committee for Primary School is passed on in a visible and independent way. We've been through the PISA study in several lines and posts in the past, the challenges it poses in school, and how important parents are. So my question to the representative Lyngstad is: how will the Christian People's Party strengthen the interaction between home and school and stimulate parents' involvement in the school's work in the light of the weaknesses now revealed, not least related to the problem of unrest in Norwegian school, which is very alarming?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e685	One of the areas of school policy where the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party find each other is precisely in terms of home-school cooperation, and the importance of parental participation in this. As far as we are concerned, it is important that a debate on the content of the school be held locally, that parents are active co-players in it, and that this not only becomes a debate for the local government alone or for the classroom alone, but that there are common arenas where this debate can go. It has also been important for us to have transparency about what is happening in school, and there is also information about the national quality assessment system. We get information at each school through ‘Schoolporten.no’ about what's happening and what's available. These things, as well as having a national body, will facilitate parental participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e690	The transfer from private schools to private colleges to which the Christian People's Party has been granted here is at best a propensity. In the worst case, it's intervention in a process that's really out of our realm. The Christian People's Party has been given the backing for the creation of four new scholarship positions, compared to the 100 proposed by the Government. In order to prioritise, four private institutions are to receive these scholarship positions. There are four high school students, plus that BI is going to get one to suck the little pill that obviously hasn't been as good for everyone. Does the Christian People’s Party believe that this is the research effort in the years to come? Is it private, Christian schools, such as the Academy of Teachers in Bergen and others, that we should invest in research? And then finally, the Christian People's Party is going in to cut 20 million. kr to state colleges linked to decentralised education provision, and then they propose 1 million. extra earmarked to one private institution to be allowed to pursue decentralised education in Ashim. So what's the logic?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e701	I don't fully understand the commitment of the representative Rikham when he manages to make four scholarship positions the big point. One must, of course, bring with it the 100 on which it is already invested in public institutions. It doesn't tell you about any big bets on the private colleges compared to the public. But I think it is important that they also get part of the research funds that exist. It's qualitatively good, and we also need to reinforce the research that's going on in that sector. I also want to say if it cut for 20 million. kr to decentralised education services: we have simply done so because it has been important for us to continue our student education. That's the reason for the cut. It's the difficult balance you have when you're going to deal with frames. I think SV will also experience that if they ever come into government position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e709	The representative Lyngstad initiated his article today by saying that ‘learning is a lifelong process’. Then, with all due respect, I must be allowed to report that in this context the term lifelong learning becomes nothing but a honorary word. This government has failed to invest in the Reform of Competence. It's not funded. This government, where the Christian People's Party has the Prime Minister, has cut all adult education funds every year it has come to the Stortinget with its budget. It's been a down-priority of everything that has to do with lifelong learning. How can the Christian People's Party say that you want to bet on lifelong learning, when we see what they've done every year in the budget – cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e718	Yes, learning takes place throughout life – even in adulthood, fortunately. There is a lot of business going on in that area, and it's great that there's a lot of business focus on empowerment measures. I'm not hiding that there are some re-priorities we might have been in addition to that, but I know what this money has done. This money has gone through a quality reform in higher education that has led to a stronger initial education. It is clear that these measures will also benefit the business community. My biggest disappointment with the reform of continuing education and not being followed up was that one was unable to find schemes for financing living in educational leave. It was simply because, in my opinion, it was not prioritised by the wage settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e725	Several have not asked for the word for a line. I'm sorry, the president has overlooked that the Rune J. Skjellaa has asked for a line, that was by no means the purpose. Here you go, Rune J. Skjellaaen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e732	It's never good to be overlooked. The government has cut off the travel allowance, cut off the country line offer, cut off distance education, in student associations and in decentralised higher education. The cut in all these areas affects people in the districts. I have to ask the representative Lyngstad whether he is comfortable with the fact that it is primarily education-seeking around the districts that are going to compromise the priorities of the Government, or is this not something that this government is at all prioritizing?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e739	I do not agree that one over these four years you have submitted a budget, has not prioritised the districts. It is clear that the quality reform in higher education has also benefited many universities in Utkant-Norway. This has definitely benefited the edges. And now that we've done this cut in the decentralised study offer, it's just to give young people in Utkant-Norway the opportunity to take higher education by continuing their education. Here, there's a certain relationship between what's happening. I do not accept the analysis presented here that it is particularly the districts affected. We have a challenge in strengthening them. It is clear that the colleges themselves have an internal freedom to decide where to place their study offerings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e744	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e747	The proposal of the Central Party for the State budget was voted down in the Stortinget, and consequently we do not promote under the Education Chapter a separate proposal within the agreed framework. We believe that a proposal within the framework of the majority of the population has adopted is not sufficient if it is to achieve the educational policy objectives previously set by the Stortinget in education and research, which the Central Party aims to achieve. The numbers within the individual chapters are shown in the setting, so that people can see it seagoing. In June, the Stortinget adopted a new organisation of primary and secondary education from the 2006 school year. The other day, the PISA survey, which has created public debate on the school, came, and that's good. But it's too shallow to make populist and easy proposals, and it's too easy to blame the current state council for decisions that have been made far back in time. New curricula, increased teacher skills and conscious fields of action will tell you in a few years if Norwegian school is on the right track. It is up to the bulk of the years to come to follow up the decisions that have been taken, with the necessary resources. Providing students with different family backgrounds and equal opportunities with ballast is also a resource challenge for the school, as well as a need for increased teaching skills in this area. Custom training means equal opportunities with different backgrounds. Therefore, in a situation where the Stortinget has adopted a bet at the school, it is worrying that there are more students for each teacher, and that school owners seem to have to organize the training in new ways, economically motivated and not pedagogically motivated. I ask the Council of State to be a little more responsive and to take seriously the economic challenges of a lot of municipalities that are expressing their own and that are affecting the school sector. In the case of adult training, the Centre Party records that the Cooperative Government has reduced the grants to the study associations by more than 30 pst. during this ageing period, and to the distance learning institutions with more than 60 pst. This affects adults in the districts who combine continuing training with work. Furthermore, the Centre Party refers to a further cut that affects people in the districts, namely the reduction in funding for higher education, the grant of decentralised higher education, which became known through the Budget Agreement with the Progress Party. But it may not be so perceptive that a government dominated by the Right in comparison with the Progress Party so little takes on serious people in the districts and the needs of the municipalities for competent labour. Decentralised higher education provides opportunities for people in the districts, for example: to take professional training as a teacher, a pre-school teacher or a nurse while living at home and at work. These training services also mean a great deal for district municipalities to be able to acquire very demanding competences in care, school and kindergarten. This unique opportunity, both for the individual student and for the individual municipality, obviously does not see the Government as a point. With regard to the church budget, the Central Party is somewhat surprised that the Government did not propose measures on church buildings. However, we are pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party was implemented through a loan arrangement for upgrading church buildings, which the Centre Party has proposed for many years. Then I'll draw attention to a note about a parole contingency agreement. I am pleased that an overall committee has joined this note, where the Committee asks the Government to take the necessary initiatives to conclude the examination of a contingency agreement for the priests. When this is sorted out, it will be a concrete recognition of an important aspect of the work of the clergy. So I'm going to take up the suggestions that the Center Party is behind, along with other parties or alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e767	The representative, Rune J. Skjellera, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e772	As usual, we've heard from the representative, Mr. Schjellaaen, an article with a lot of commitment and a lot of experience. However, I find it a little difficult to understand what the commitment was on behalf of. It can be difficult on behalf of the Center Party's school policy. Neither the post of the representative nor the position is marked by the fact that the Central Party has its own school policy. The solution is more money. In most of the notes, the Centerpartie stands with SV. Where they have their own comments, it is usually a reference to the alternative budget of the party, which is far beyond the agreed framework. In the general comments of the party, it is difficult to read until they have their own school policy. The note within the school area is concentrated 100 pst. on local economy. A natural question to the representative of the Skjälaa after his posts will therefore be: Does the Central Party have its own school policy, or is the party only a tail to SV in this important policy area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e779	The representative Jan Olav Olsen has, hopefully, followed in the hours, also in the process that has taken place in the committee, and knows what kind of recording the centre party has come along. And many recordings have been joined by other parties. The centre party really has its own school policy. But we're not ashamed to agree on important areas with other parties in the Great Britain who want to bet on public school much more than this government adds. And when the representative mentions the local economy, it's actually very crucial that we should be able to have a school that parents want to send their children to, and not choose private alternatives. Then there are some areas where the SV and the Workers' Party separate teams with the Center Party, and this applies in relation to the school leisure system, private higher education, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e789	The question is whether the centre party should be a little ashamed of cutting almost 100 million. in the allocation to independent schools, when speaking so hot to maintain a training offer also in the districts. It has been shown that the ability of parents to establish together with others or privately run schools as an alternative if a municipal school is diverted has become much better. And if we're going to believe the Center Party, it's going to reduce this possibility by cutting almost 100 million. kr. In any case, in discussions with the government parties, we have been given the clear view that the small consumption shown in the current year's budget, i.e. in 2004, to which we come back on our own, is not expected to be repeated in 2005, so that the centre party does a real cut here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e794	It's correct that we cut approx. Ninety-five million. kr in the allocation to independent schools. The government has proposed an increase of 174 million. kr. However, when you take pay trends into account, it is approx. One hundred million. kr again for increase in activity. We have been very clear that we do not support the law on independent schools. We want the private school law. We want a school to have a purpose to be established, and so do we in our budgets. So we want to change the law of high school back to the private school law, where you have to have an alternative purpose to set up a private school. In the case of school leavings around, it happens at an accelerated speed, not because the law of high school has come, but simply because the municipalities see themselves forced to cut school budgets, have bigger schools and not to have a decentralised school structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e799	The centre party refers to its alternative budget in many contexts, and it does so in the position, where they have more money than the rest of us, which must keep us within the framework. In the budget setting, the Centre also refers to the curriculum for upper secondary school students and that it covers only a small group of pupils. Therefore, they want a general scholarship in addition to the test. The small group we're talking about here is over 53,000 students. And they're the ones who really need scholarships for teaching materials that have got this. The scheme is aimed at helping students who are disadvantaged financially. If the centre party has to give priority and stay within a framework – and it would be interesting to hear what priorities you would have done, except to cut the allocation to independent schools – would it still be a priority to give educational scholarships to everyone, including the richest?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e804	The centre party wants, and has programmed, that even secondary school should be free of charge. Most of the students go to high school. It is necessary today, and it is simply considered to be part of basic training. It's our first priority in the field that high school should be free of charge. The games here in the Storing have a little bit of different ways of approaching this. We believe that we should have a scholarship and that it should be built up. The goal is that it should be a free high school for everyone. We don't want to grade between rich and poor, we want everyone to have a free school. I hope the Christian People's Party doesn't get there and they're going to say that because people have good advice, they're going to start paying for primary school as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e811	In his reply to me, the representative said, among other things. that there were some areas where the Senterpartiet separated layers with SV and the Workerspartiet. Then he mentioned the private school law, where he said the Center Party wants the old private school law back. So it's an area where they don't seem to separate layers with SV and the Workers' Party, which, as far as I understand, also wants the old private school law back. In its program, the Center Party says that what they want from private schools is only those who build on an alternative pedagogy, i.e. not schools based on a religious platform. This is the programme for the current ageing period, and also, as far as I know, confirmed at the Central Party's national meeting in spring 2003. What does the Central Party really want with regard to private schools? Will they allow private schools based on a religious basis, or will they only have private schools based on alternative pedagogy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e820	I am the last person to advance what the Central Party national meeting will say in this case, but we are not going to make any suggestions in this room about a law that is different from the private school law. The centre party holds the parental right high. Let's take it seriously. That's why we are fully behind the private school law, which opens up religious schools. In 2001, just before the ageing period, there was a debate related to the ACE school. It helped to shape much of the debate about private schools in many parties. We are clear and clear that we want the private school law for its purpose, a law that also opens up life-vision schools, but we don't want a big advance of private schools. We actually want to have a school that facilitates that all students can go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e827	It's very interesting, the position the Center Party has in relation to fresh oils, because it seems more like it's adapted to a possible government cooperation than it's adapted to the positions they've stood for in the past. The only change in the practical effect of the law we have now passed is that parents have a right to maintain schools that are threatened with closure. We see that the vast majority of times this law has been used and it is not used by religious communities or others, it is by parents who want to maintain small schools threatened by closure. I think it's very strange that the Center Party will take from the parents this opportunity to maintain small primary schools, because this has really become the big media to maintain primary schools. It is usually something that local politicians from the Left and the Centre agree to maintain in local government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e832	We don't want to deprive parents of the right to have children go to school in the community. We put in our alternative budget into a municipal economy that provides the basis that the school can actually be there still. The difference is, as Trine Skei Grande says, that parents can now start schools. But in the private school law it is a requirement for purpose, while in the law of independent schools there is no requirement for purpose. That's the big difference, and that's why I don't fully understand the issue of the representative of Grande. As I said, the Central Party actually has a municipal structure that allows municipalities around to have a freedom to keep their branch school and not be forced to lay it down. That's the way we can have a good public school, for example. Have a school where people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e839	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e842	The left wants a good public school and went to the elections with the slogan ‘Let go of school’. Sometimes when the glitch in reality becomes too big, it is important that politicians have the ability to see both behind torches and behind large surveys. We know there are twelve students per. Teacher, but I don't meet many teachers who perceive reality this way. We know that we're spending more and more money, but I also perceive that there are many parents who don't realize that everyday life is just like that. Then there must be something wrong in the way we organize, manage and spend the money. I've seen examples of private schools that only have 85 pst. of what the public school has, less the capital expenditure, and that has no parental benefit, but still feels that it is spacious. We think this in the Left is a warning that we now need to look at the educational freedom and the way we use the resources, which makes everyday life so different. So I think we're going to be honest in the debate we're having just before Christmas. It was Lilletun who started the process of getting a real boost for the teachers in terms of pay, but it is an honor that the Workers' Party has been eager to take away from him. What's interesting is that when that agreement is implemented and it has led to fewer teachers, of course, the Workers' Party is equally good at blaming the Right Council. We have to be honest about both the benefits and the disadvantages of the agreements we make. What I am really proud of in the state budget presented here is the commitment of the teachers. It's the most important input into doing a good job in Norwegian school at all. In the Committee's position, it is a big move that I don't think people have put enough into focus: the great grip for art and culture and for many other initiatives in the future. With a culture for learning, we open up a broader platform for higher education. That means that it might be harder to get the narrower deals. One problem at Norwegian school is that we haven't got a bet at depth, especially in terms of art and culture, but also in some other disciplines, because we have a high school offer that is as wide as it is. With the grip that has now been taken on the landlines, and with the grip that the majority have also taken on ballet education at the Academy of Fine Arts, it will be possible to make an offer to those who need to specialise early in life, and to the very best, so that precisely this group is given the opportunity to develop its talents. I am the case rapporteur for the Art Academy, and I am pleased with the comments about both ballet and stage photography. I am very proud that we have a government that has come so far with the next stage of construction at the Academy of Fine Arts. I have great confidence in the reorganisation going on, sail if it also happens with some noise when so many different cultures are going to shake together. I am also proud of the efforts we have now made in research over many years. This also applies to the research of art. I think it's right of the government actually to be honest about the study spot. Not admitting what you really cut in, pushing it all under the carpet and just calling it a framecut, I don't think I'm honest. We in the Left are proud, but we are not satisfied. We are primarily very proud of the efforts of the teachers, but we believe that there needs to be a great deal of action and that we need a reform of adult education. We've now reached a point where we really have to look at how we do it. We are happy to have received back the letter, and we are happy to have got back the principle of travel assistance. In the debate there have been comments on wish lists and on the need to be able to say to the daemon that you have been kind this year. I believe in the daemon, but I also think he values honesty as much as looking down on the floor and repeating many times that you've been kind this year too. Finally, the SV and the Center Party, talking about the Right-dominated government: I think that if they have ambitions to enter the government room without being the largest party, they should learn to have a rhetoric that also values the small ones, and have faith that the small ones can actually influence something toward the big ones. If not, they will have major problems in entering into such cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e870	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e874	Earlier today, we have heard the good argument of the representative Arne Lyngstad to maintain the KRL subject and to strengthen it: it gives the children dialogue, it gives the kids a meeting place in this context, and it's identity-building. Very good! But we have also heard in the last few weeks the government comrade from Left, Lars Sponheim, in the media be strong and clear that they want changes in the way the KRL subject is handled in school. We have to comply with the Human Rights Committee, and we don't need any Christian science in Norwegian school, he says. It could have been nice to be flying on the wall when this matter comes up in the Government. I would like to ask the representative of the Left: what is the reason why they want to weaken the KRL subject?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e885	Mrs Nielsen has brought with her what Sponheim has said. This is what the Left believes, and I have also said it. What I'm a little surprised about is that you refer to the CRL subject as the Christian subject. I didn't see that. I have seen it as a much broader subject than that. What the left has always said is that we want a broad subject to which everyone can participate. We do not want exemptions, exemptions from knowledge. For the Left, it has always been important that knowledge is something that everyone should have about each other. I tend to say that you can't grow up in Oslo without knowing who Jesus was, or knowing what ID is, in order to understand our culture, and our complex culture. Therefore, the Left wants to develop the subject. That is what we have said, and that is what we have programmed. I guess there's nothing to wonder about the Workers' Party that the Left and Christian People's Party might have slightly different approaches to this subject. What has been important to us is to have a broad knowledge profession for which we do not need our own exemption schemes. That's our goal, and that's what we're going to work for, even when we're going to be in government after the next election.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e898	The speech must be addressed to the President, not to the individual representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e901	Excuse me, sir. President.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e906	The left has suffered a frontal attack on decentralised education in this year's budget. Yeah, I'll call it a frontal attack. Today, the Government, together with the Advance Party, will adopt a cut of about 100 million. DKK in the university and higher education sectors, including a cut of 20 million. kr on decentralised education. This happens even though decentralised education has been one of the most targeted levels of competence for districts. 90 pst. by those taking decentralised education remain at their place of residence. The highest school in Tromsø, which is the largest in the country in decentralised education, with 7 basic education courses and 38 further training courses, has now had to make a cut of 2.5 million based on what the Left will be involved in today’s adoption. kr. My question to the representative Skei Grande is: who is being hit by this cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e917	The first question was asked, I think I answered in my main post. I think it's an honest thing to tell you what the cuts really are about, in relation to undermining the entire funding system by cutting within a framework, by saying that you get to find arrangements as you want. I am proud of a government that has managed to complete the quality reform. Not many people had expected, but we've done that. Once we've actually done that, we can't undermine the reform by taking the cuts in other areas, but we admit that it means some cut in the study places. If not, we would have undermined the entire quality reform in this field. So to the decentralised education. It has no consequences for those who are in the decentralised education today. But we believe that all colleges and universities should have a focus on giving an offer across the country. We see that they're more and more angled towards doing that and finding other ways of studying than the regular A4 solution. I have great faith that universities and universities will also be able to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e926	The representative Skei Grande is a little bit confused that we're not referring to the left, that we're just talking about the right-hand government. But it can't be so surprising when we don't actually find the Left Policy in the education sector. That's basically the right-wing policy we see. I would like to ask the representative Skei Grande: is she satisfied that parents must start and run schools that the municipalities cannot afford to maintain? She thinks one should be dependent on enthusiastic parents who have profits, etc. to pursue an open school, in order to pass the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e933	I guess you'll find what you're looking for. What I am most proud of in the budget that we are discussing today is the commitment of teachers. As for the bet on teachers, I think we've brought the Right closer to the Left in that area, in relation to the old Right rhetoric attached to teachers, and the Right rhetoric that we now stand for together in this common government. I can give the representative a lot of examples like this, but now I only have 36 seconds left. My point was that what the Center Party is doing is wanting to maintain the private school law, as opposed to the law on high school education, is that they are taking away from their parents a means of pressuring the municipalities. It's, as I said, often the Left Party and the Center Party stand together to maintain small branch schools. We're doing it in the local government around. It's not always bad economy that affects it. There are also other types of grip. We have seen that municipalities want closure according to other wishes for the development of the municipality. With this law, we have now given the parents this means of pressurisation, and it is a means of pressurizing them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e942	Over against the Left, I would like to stress that small may be important. For example, in the budget agreement with the Progress Party, they have removed an earmarked grant proposed by the Government for the monitoring of accessibility of disabled persons at universities and colleges. I have registered that representatives of the Christian People's Party in the media have said that this was because they wanted to move from mapping to action. However, within the Committee, I do not record anything in the budgetary agreement that would indicate that these funds have been used for something that could be related in particular to the disabled. In my opinion, this is an expression of a pettyness to satisfy the priorities of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e947	The things we have prioritised with the Progress Party are things that also the Left is comfortable with prioritizing. Both the travel allowance, the country lines, the trade box fee, etc. We're comfortable with this. That means that the priorities that lie there are a common priority, carried out by four lots. So for the cut in the mapping. We believe that it must be rebuilt in a number of areas, but spending money on monitoring it is not what we have prioritised. We believe that there should be room for action also within this sector, but we haven't spent so much money mapping these actions. It's a priority I can hold out for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e954	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e958	Unfortunately, the Coastal Party is not represented in the Education Committee. Our views are not expressed through the suspension, and speaking time is too short to comment on all parts of the budget and the consequences we believe it will have for the possibility of knowledge growth in the coming year. A few moments, however, I would like to point out. This government would improve the quality of Norwegian school and facilitate the empowerment of the population to meet the needs of a rapidly changing society. However, neither the budget of the year nor the previous ones have provided municipalities and educational institutions with the financial space necessary to promote knowledge growth across a broad range. Although the number of students in school has increased by 7 000, the number of apprenticeships has been reduced by 1600. Only in my state are the number of apprenticeships reduced by 150 in the last two years. The 2005 budget decision suggests that the reduction in the number of teacher’s annual work will continue. While we were fighting before to replace unskilled teachers with educated educators, progress is now moving in the opposite direction. Pedagogues are recited and replaced by assistants because these are cheaper. This government has extended the teaching time for primary school students, but from the Government's side, the reform is underfunded by 73 million. kr for the coming year. Is that how we're going to get the world's best school? ICT provides increased opportunities for distance learning. The government continues to highlight the importance of people’s ability to change and continuous training, where people with different backgrounds are given access to new knowledge to meet new challenges in the knowledge society. Nevertheless, 20 million were cut. kr to decentralised higher education, the form of education which gives the greatest opportunity for knowledge growth for people living outside university and higher education cities. Being able to retrain without having to leave home is probably the most useful measure we can take if we want education and training opportunities to develop equally in all parts of the country. Only at the Bodø College in 2005, it was cut by 3 million. to this end, and the University of Tromsø must cut off the decentralised nursing training. For the population in the north, where the requirement for conversion and skills growth is higher than for other parts of the country because a greater proportion of the population has been linked to primary industries, this is dramatic. If people living on the outskirts, who are pushed by traditional industries, have the opportunity to change, they must have the same opportunities for conversion through education that people in central urban areas have. It is necessary, on the part of the Grand Duchy, to provide people with training opportunities where they live, in order to maintain their skills as a basis for the development of alternative jobs. By cutting this opportunity and forcing people to move as the only alternative to going to social security, the districts of human resources and future opportunities are drained. The Coastal Party will aim to ensure that the possibility of higher education and university education through the possibility of digital contact between students and places of study is not reduced, as the Government proposes. When then also the appropriations for the study association are cut by 9 million. kr, there are not many possibilities for conversion through growth of competences that are open to adult people in District Norway. The coastal party fears that the cuts made here will have to be paid for by unemployment insurance, increased situational disability insurance and early retirement. In the Coastal Party, we are calling for a comprehensive economic plan from the Government. Moreover, the Coastal Party is opposed to Norway being sold bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e975	Quality reform in higher education has been on the agenda in budgetary terms and in many other individual cases over the last three years. The objectives include, inter alia: increased student follow-up, improved learning environment, cooperation with social and labour life and increased internationalisation. A new funding system has been put in place, focusing on basic funding, a study score component and one that is research-related. To date, there has been broad agreement on the follow-up to the financing of the institutions' work on the quality reform. Universities and colleges have done a good job of implementing the reform in a short time. The Labour Party believes that the Government and the Advance Party are in breach of the trust and the necessary predictability of the funding system when, in accordance with the principles of cheese suitability, they require that 4000 higher education places be cut, with a non-chalant justification: the overall budget line – read: tax relief. It is a blow to the face of the institutions and their motivation for further follow-up to the Quality Reform. But more importantly, it is pointless in a situation where the search is increasing and the youth schools are growing. The result will be that more young people will remain standing without the offer of higher education. In addition, the State Colleges receive an additional pressure from the Government Parties and the Advance Party of the Committee to cut 20 million. The appropriations to go to higher education for decentralised study provision. Are there any fears that new groups will participate in higher education? At the same time, government parties are involved in highlighting the importance of higher education for the establishment of arenas for learning and competence building in regional development. It was this with life and learning, sir. President. A unanimous committee in the setting of the Quality Reform in 2001 stated that it is necessary to improve student funding in order to make students more full-time students. The first Clemet Council was to remove the Stoltenberg government proposal for an increase in study aid of NOK 1000 in the month of 2002. Fortunately, the Workers' Party and a majority of them managed to get this in place. Since then, in each state budget, the State Council has attacked the students' economy, their welfare and support systems. This time she took a real thank-you: no price adjustment for loans and scholarships, for the third consecutive year, gone with a student discount and travel expenses and cut in the student housing building. The government undermines an important pillar of the Quality Reform, namely the possibility of being a full-time student, and the Progress Party is involved. We in the Workers' Party oppose the cut in study places and the reduction in the student economy. We're not just on the students' and institutions' side. We're on the Quality Reform side. Research and development is essential for future well-being and value creation. The Labour Party looks forward to the announced paper on research for the spring. The aim here must be to create a broad political consensus to further lift this as a field of activity, a field that is not part of the daily resource allocation debate. The government's proposals in the government budget are not a boost to research efforts, rather the opposite. Now we do not know for sure how far we are going to achieve the OECD average target in 2005 before the statistics are available for both Norway and the OECD in 2007. I see that this will depend on a number of factors. In 2001, our government estimated the demand for public spending to be 4 billion kroner by 2005. If we combine public R & D investment and the effects of the TaxFUNN, we are above the estimated level next year. Despite this, it may be difficult to achieve the goal, because the conditions have also changed. The OECD average of R & D efforts has increased and Norwegian GDP has grown more than expected. At the same time, business growth in R & D investment — an area where Norway has had a particular challenge due to its historical industrial structure — has not been as strong as foreseen. However, I am convinced that the very objective of the OECD average has been crucial for us to get to where we are today. Then we must have a fundamental discussion on the way forward in the processing of the research report for spring. The starting point here is that we still need to have an ambitious goal for Norwegian research efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1001	The chairperson of the Committee started today’s debate by looking back on the budgets that have now been submitted under this government — that is, the fourth budget presented — and asked whether education and research had been focused on this period. The answer that was given was not only positive, but I believe there is reason to give such an answer. The same statistics we look at, whether they are global, where all countries in the world are involved, or where only the rich part of the world is involved, tops Norway, together with a few other countries, the statistics on resource use in the field of education and research in particular, but also in the context of education and research. If we ask what has happened in this period, education and research have been strongly prioritised in a government budget where the growth of expenditure has been strong. There is, of course, a lot about regulatory arrangements in the area of welfare, but looking at those areas that have been politically prioritised, education and research are cutting very high over these years. This is clearly one of the most priority areas of the Government. In addition, the use of resources in municipalities has increased in schools, but I'm aware, as many claim, that when we look at statistics, we have to relate to averages. There are differences between School-Norway and Municipality-Norway, but we have also taken the initiative that few municipalities that use especially little in schools compared to the average, or the few municipalities where resource use goes down, we have to exercise a special supervision to make sure that it does not go beyond quality. If so, action can also be taken. I think we should be proud that we have such a high resource use, in education in particular, but also in education and research in the context. Rather than dispute it or trivialize it, I think we should view it as a very good starting point for doing much better in Norway than we do. I think we should allow ourselves to have high ambitions. We can have that, and we're going to have that, and there's no goal for me to use less, so it's said a little rhetorical in this debate. We need to use a lot because we have a modern democracy of high prosperity and can allow it, and because we have great ambitions. But in addition to spending a lot of money, it's my ambition that we should also be more concerned about how we use the money, and that it is, among other things. students benefit in the best possible way. As far as research is concerned, we still have more challenges. We need to spend more on research. We need to raise the quality of research, and we need not least to get the private sector to invest more in research. Considerable efforts have been made in this period to increase public research efforts. It's increased by 3.2 billion kroner. In addition, DKr 1.8 billion comes from SkattenFUNN, and that is an increase that means that we are far ahead of the plan that was assumed to have to be followed when writing the previous research report. The committee leader was concerned that I was so busy with Finland when it came to PISA, but not when it came to research. Well, I'm very concerned about Finland's research, but what Finland shows is that they've been able to get the private sector to invest in research. Only approx. 25 pst. the investment for research comes from the public sector, while approximately 75 pst. come from the private sector. This is a major challenge for Norway, which we may have started to solve through SkatteFUNN, but how much remains. We have had a strong stepping up of the fund, and we have started a series of quality measures, including centres for excellent research. In the field of lifelong learning and the reform of skills, there remains a review of the adult education field. However, I would nevertheless like to refer to a recent OECD country report that says that Norway has invested a lot, enough, and most of all, in lifelong learning in the world, that our challenge now is to get more out of those resources and systems in terms of value creation and innovation. In higher education, we have fully financed a quality reform that now means that we are a long way to go in Europe in implementing the Bologna process. There's also been a lot of activity on the construction site. Most importantly in this budget, the high level of competence that will now be implemented in initial training and the reform to be implemented from 2006. The PISA study clearly shows that what is in the way of Norwegian school is primarily a lack of competence in school, a lack of clear learning objectives and professional requirements for students and a lack of tools that enable us to detect negative developments in time and do something with them in the interests of the students there. I think it is a little sad today to think that if Norway had listened to what the OECD Council had already given Norway in 1987, and set up a quality assessment system, we might have been able to do something for those students who, according to PISA, have lost a lot because we ourselves have not known or been able to investigate it. If we had established national tests and a national quality assessment system before, the errors that have now been identified could also have been detected and adjusted in time. The reform that has now been adopted has proved to be even more necessary than it turned out to be in ours, and I hope the parties are just as united behind it now as they did then.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1033	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1036	In the now mentioned PISA survey, Norway appears to be in a poor state of conflict and unrest in the class. In the media, during the weekend, we saw very serious violence episodes in the Norwegian school, documented by students themselves. Of course, this is a completely unacceptable development, for which there is a need to put an end to it. At the same time, it gives a picture of a day-to-day school that I think most of us are being terrified and startled. I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit about this: Has the Council of State come up with concrete thoughts about what needs to be done to prevent this type of serious violence from developing in the Norwegian schoolyard? Has the Council considered what kind of action is right to take when such an infringement has taken place?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1043	I think it's pretty important that we now distinguish what is called trouble and trouble in the hours, which interferes with teaching, which the students report, and what is violence, bullying and racism. With regard to the latter, the Government, together with many parties in School-Norway, has undertaken a very extensive effort to combat and prevent. The first research results indicate a rather radical decline in the incidence of bullying and violence and the kind of things that have been put into action. Norway is so distinct in terms of active action here — after hard work throughout School Norway, mainly with teachers and school leaders’ efforts — that international cooperation with perhaps as many as twenty countries in the world is now being established to combat violence and bullying. The episodes we've seen in the last few days, with the filming of violence, are at least not problems that reflect the development of the school primarily. It's a social problem that unfortunately also moves into school. It must be combated by the type of anti- bullying measures that we have already put in place, which the schools must take even more seriously. Well, trouble and anxiety in hours are a little bit of a different category. There I think the teaching authority and the professional requirements for the students are very central.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1050	I'll take up two things. One concerns quality reform. It may be true that the process is well advanced, but in the last known study, with the ranking of the 200 best universities in Europe – it was probably in a bigger context than Europe too – we find only two of the four Norwegian universities. The first of the two comes only after we have passed the square number. 100. I assume that it's not a location and a measure that we'll somehow settle down with. It shows that there is a need for strong pressure on the reform to ensure better quality. The second concerns the development of teachers’ skills, which is now being significantly invested in, and where 300 million have been spent. kr in fresh funds in next year's budget. But where is the bet on the parents? There's going to be a huge gap between the level of investment associated with the teachers, which is important enough, and the little thing we've pinted out to the parents' national agency, FUG, at 5.6 million. kr. So the entry is going to be the same in 2005 as in 2004. There's a big misunderstanding here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1057	As far as higher education is concerned, I thought that we were far ahead in the process of implementing the changes agreed in Europe. It is also becoming a special feature that we spend so much public money on higher education and have not intended to infect the free principle. But it is absolutely right that we have a quality challenge. On the one hand, it is a major challenge for a small country, but the challenge is even greater when we get greater mobility across borders by students, researchers, etc. Then it's not easy to be a very small language area, slightly peripherally located on the Earth. It's our big quality challenge, which we're trying to do something about through higher education and research policy. Parenting: It is true that there is a great deal of commitment to quality development in school. The item increases by approx. 70 pst. But I can reassure the representative of Sortevik that the parent's bet is not just from the budget line of the Parent's Committee for Primary School. The reform to come, the promise of knowledge, must, among other things. are accompanied by a large amount of information and a dialogue aimed at parents, not only that which goes beyond the budget of the Parent Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1064	It's an undeniable fact that we haven't done what we were supposed to do on the research page. We would have had 350 new scholarship positions in 2005 if we had followed up what Stortinget has previously said. So that's not what we're going to get. We can do 100 plus four-- dear friend, plus four as the Storting now adds to some private institutions. Then I can ask the Council of State a question that concerns the priorities of the scholarship positions we are now putting in: does the Council of State agree that it is the private institutions that should be given priority, at a time when we need to invest in research, especially in the real subjects, for example? So to quality in primary school. In 1999 Stortinget St. meld. No 28 for 1998-1999, Towards richer objectives, on quality of initial training. It's not the first time we've discussed quality. We also adopted a quality system after a big message from Jon Lilletun. Bondevik was prime minister. So presenting this as if it's the first time we're discussing quality is positive wrong. So one small thing: there is nothing in the PISA survey that suggests that the countries that are betting on national tests and tests are doing better on the type of tests that Norway is doing, cf. The United States, Australia, New Zealand – and England, they can't even run the tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1073	I have to say that I haven't gotten so deep into the PISA study that I've managed to compare the countries that have national tests, as we have, because I don't know any country that has exactly such tests, and results they must have achieved. However, the fact that there are many countries with national quality assessment systems and that achieve better results is evident, as we have come out late. New Zealand is, as far as I can recall now — I do not have the PISA study in front of me — a country that uses much less resources, and which comes out much better in the recent PISA study. My point is that national tests and transparency around them give the opportunity to adjust the course along the way if you find that the results are poor. If from 1997, when Reform 97 was introduced and until today had had that type of tests, we would have been able to adjust the rate, whether for reading, writing or billing. I kind of think it's a little strange for a country to wait for the OECD to produce some reports once in a while to tell us what it's like in our education system. It was to be thought that we ourselves were interested in it and even examined it and were leading.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1078	The government is constantly proposing changes to the grant schemes. This time it is, among other things. The travel allowance to be cut. A student life-cycle survey is under way. It is the Statistical Central Bureau that has launched it on behalf of the Ministry. My question is: does the Council of State think that the study funding in our country is too good, since one now, before the results of this life-cycle survey, chooses to cut the scholarships? Are students expected to pay for larger parts of living and education in the future? Or should we wait until the results of this living conditions survey are available, where we get a complete review of the student's life situation, including the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1086	I believe that the financial situation of Norwegian students is good, but not too good. As the budgetary documents show, when we cut the budget, which in total is much less than what we are doing, it has to do with the whole, that we are not just providing parts of a budget, but a whole. As far as I can see, for example, a large batch which the Workers' Party, currently in opposition, uses in total less education than the Government in its position is now required to do according to the budgetary documents available. It must indicate that, in fact, everyone must give priority and create a budget within some framework. With great interest, too, since, after all, there is a lot of talk about cutting, I saw a poll in the VG the other day. A representative sample is asked: ‘What do you think is the main reason why Norwegian students get so badly into the new OECD survey? » It is under 25 pst. responding: insufficient financial resources. And then it's about 60 pst. which answers: Too low requirements for students, too few competent teachers, too little focus on nuclear subjects. Although there is a lot of debate about resources, this suggests that even the population does not believe that it is the answer to everything, but that the content also matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1093	Let me follow up the question from the Rune Skjellaa. There was agreement here in the UK that the implementation of the quality reform provided for an increase in the funding for studies. Then we need a clarification from the Council of State, firstly because this government went against the increase in the funding proposed by our government – it was actually zeroed out altogether – and because the Council of State and the Government have repeatedly, every year, weakened part of the study funding. In the context of the launch of the pension reform, it was now said that a system has been set up to make working alongside the studies more profitable. Then my question is: does the Council of State want us to have a full-time student who can concentrate on the studies in the months of study? Secondly, does she feel that the level of student funding is too high?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1102	Well, if this room has agreed on everything with regard to the financing of the quality reform, I'm a little in doubt about it. Universities and higher education institutions calculated before the government change what it would cost to implement the Quality Reform in Higher Education. They found that it would cost NOK 1,144 billion. At that time, Minister of Education Trond Giske said he was completely in disagreement. He believed that this was something you could get within the means you had, mostly. There was something the Workers' Party then, in the position in Stortinget, joined in the treatment of the Quality Reform. We've been following up on improving students' finances. I am aware that you can point back and forth a little bit and cut here and there, but the students' economy has greatly improved since before the Quality Reform. In addition, we have fully financed the quality reform in higher education. Both parts matter to the students, because if the quality reform had not been fully funded, the students would not have received such a good study offer. Then they might have had to study longer, and so they would have incurred even more loans that they would have to pay back since then.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1109	The chord shift has been completed. The next speaker is Arne Sortevik. There's still a speech time of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1114	Thank you, President, there will be an opportunity to sum up when it starts to drag itself towards the end. First a little bit more about the challenge about the profile of the Progress Party during the line change after my post. In addition to the answer on cuts in the university and higher education sectors and getting places back again, I would also like to point to research efforts. I would like to point out that we still have proposals for a foreign budget, which we believe will come into place in a few years' time, also with the support of other parties, and not least that we also have a profile that goes on a greater level of equality between private and public schools and private and public educational institutions. Let me say a little bit about independent schools. There is more money spent on independent schools in the 2005 budget, and with the legislation in place for freer establishment, both new schools and new places will come. It is then important that the control is also good, and that the legislation is clear and clarifying. If this is what the Progress Party says in the setting together with the government parties: ‘The majority will underline the importance and need for consistent enforcement and enforcement of the legislation for independent schools. The majority believe that this should be reflected in the organisational structure of the Education Directorate.’ On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to stress that we regard this as important. We have a feeling that the current regulations for stand-alone schools are not always clear enough, nor are they unambiguously and clearly used for the schools in question. So it's important that we along with the government parties have got this clarification. Then I would also like to refer to a committee comment on camp schools, which is also an area within our field that has led and leads a slightly superficial life. In any case, the Committee agrees that we will have a new reading of the status of the offer and use of camp schools in the context of the 2006 municipal proposal. Our aim then, with the address of the representative, Reikvam, is that we get back the scheme we had before SV made sure that the state grant disappeared. We want back the earmarked grant, so that, in our view, we better ensure camp schooling for Norwegian students. Then I will refer to a note on which the Progress Party is alone. This is something we are withdrawing from the budget position for 2001-2002, where fees were requested specifically by the private educational institution BI, and where there was a case order that we cannot see has been followed up in retrospect. We are therefore calling for this again. Last, but not least, I would also like to point out that an overall committee is behind the last Roman numeral in the setting, namely to get a comprehensive review of the state special educational support system. It has called for a slightly different majority several times, both in budgetary terms and when we dealt with St.meld. No 14 for 2003-2004, on the educational provision of hearing impaired persons. There's now a whole committee behind it, so we expect a thorough review of the pedagogical support system to be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1134	The public common school is the most important building block to create the society that we want. A common meeting place where you meet and work with people who are different from yourself creates tolerance, trust and understanding in a more and more fragmented society. We need a bet in public high school. It's necessary and enormously important to get to it now. We have a good school in many ways, where studies show that the students are very well off, and we're actually at the top in understanding democracy. But we're not doing well enough. Evaluation shows that we have a school that doesn't equalize the differences, but enhances and cumulates them. It's serious that we have a public common school that helps build up and reinforce the inequalities in society. The PISA study shows us that we do not succeed well enough in mathematics, Norwegian and natural sciences. But you can't help but realize that the local economy is an important factor in success in school. The municipal economy is now cut to the bone, and for the very smallest municipalities it is very tough. On a national basis, we now have 1 600 fewer teachers and 7 000 more students in school. This has resulted in larger groups and fewer sharing hours, which in turn lead to many more students experiencing that they are not receiving the organized education – the training – that they are entitled to. What else are the students experiencing? They experience empty basins, or basins drained for water. They experience that libraries are shut down or that libraries buy fewer and fewer books. In your homework, a lot of students also experience that you don't get the ingredients you need. In natural sciences, which is important, experiment rooms are perceived to be closed or equipment is old and worn out. The tools for getting good training are taken from school. We have adopted a work environment law for the students. Calculations show that you need 40 to 55 billion dollars to get all our schools cleaned up well enough. There are still children sitting with headaches before lunch. Studies also show that four out of ten students are plagued by poor indoor climate. SV wants to strengthen the grant to municipalities by DKK 5 billion in free income. We want to fill the shelves with books, the pools with water, and we want to buy equipment and provide good conditions for training. SV wants to strengthen and speed up the upgrading of school buildings. A new primary education reform has been adopted with competence enhancement measures. It has been decided that ICT and digital competence should be one of the basic skills. This is important, and this is good. Mastering digital competence is one of the crucial factors in success in life. But then it happens that the budget cuts by a majority of 15.4 million. kr on digital bet. This happens when it is known that there are major challenges in school both in relation to broadband connectivity and PC density among students, and especially the competence of teachers is weak in digital learning materials in educational use. SV is also committed to seeing a coherence in the cooperation between school and school leisure schemes. For the first time in history, we now experience a decline in the number of those in the school leave scheme. This is because you have removed from the responsibility of the government. It is felt that municipalities have been forced to increase the school leave fee. On a national basis, this increase is around 20pst. In this budget, SV proposes that the Government should come to the UK with a competence plan, a separate matter on the competence and development of the school leisure system. We don't get a majority for this, and what does that tell me? It tells me that a majority of the Stortinget is not interested in the school leisure system. I will in many ways characterise this budget as a frontal attack in the districts. The travel allowance is over half, from 70 million. NOK 30 million. kr. The landlines have only continued for six months. And, as I've been in the past, you've cut 20 million. kr in relation to decentralised education.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1155	The year we are now in is the start-up year of the reform when it concerns the training of the Norwegian Church. This reform, which aims at a profound renewal and development of threat training in the Church, is among the most important before the Church in our time. I will not argue again for the value of the reform or for the great perspectives associated with it, but just note that we are in an exciting time for the Church and for all those who are concerned about furthering the Christian heritage of culture and trust to new generations. Of course, it is too early today to have a clear opinion on the objectives of the reform that will be met. What we know is that the reform is met with enthusiasm and great commitment to church sounds. In the context of the reform process, many church sounds in the country have developed systematic training projects in a short time and have applied for funding for implementation. Nearly 600 of the church sounds in the country, either privately or jointly with others, submit project applications for 2004. Because 2004 is the start-up year, I see this as a big and happy number. The funds pledged in 2004 did not go for all the applications. In 2004, there was room to meet approximately. 100 project applications. It's a good start. In the 2005 proposal for a church budget, the Government has given priority to a further investment in threat training. With an increase of 25 million. kr for the 2005 reform will provide the basis for a good extension of the number of church sounds that can be added. I am pleased that, with our efforts in 2005, we can ensure good progress and breadth in the reform. Especially in the early part of the reform period, I see it as important that we get the breadth and diversity of the reform work. This will enable us to provide a good basis for the forthcoming evaluations of the reform. In the context of the church budget for 2005, there are otherwise two other issues that it is natural to mention in particular. The only one is about the achievement. After the establishment of new services for the priests, we are in a reform phase for the organisation of the services. The objectives are a better leadership, more cooperation and greater room for flexibility and specialisation among the clergy. I hope that the changes will be for the best both for the priests and for the church sounds. A particularly important element in the new system of services is the ability of the performers to develop their leadership role. The 2004 budget saw 3 million. kr for strengthening the prostate. In 2005, there will be an increase of 1 million. kr. The committee has agreed to this, which I am pleased with. I should like to see a greater commitment for the benefit of the prostanes, but in 2005 it is the trust training that has been given the highest priority. In the spring of 2004, a church building conference was held in Narvik, where the missing maintenance of many of our churches was the theme. We also had an interpellation debate in the Stortinget in June this year on the same subject. It's a fact that when it comes to the damage to many of our churches, he's developed negatively. This has been happening for many years. The majority of the Committee advocates the establishment of an interest-rate compensation scheme for church buildings from 2005 on the model of the school facility. The majority point out that the purpose of the arrangement is to strengthen the refurbishment of the churches, and that the peace and protection of the churches should be a high priority. I am pleased that this system is now coming, which will be an important measure for the protection and protection of the churches. In this area, I will also refer to the important work being done by the central government of the Church. Under the direction of the Church's Employers' Organisation, a national church building database will soon be in operation. This will serve as an important hub for the future administration of the churches. I also welcome the fact that the Church Council and the Church meeting on their own initiative have invited an open discussion on the possible closure of churches where the situation makes it natural. In the committee setting, the members of the Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party have a note that calls for greater involvement from the Ministry in the process of achieving real equality between women and men in the Church. I can make sure that the equality perspective is always hard to achieve in the appointment of pros and bishops. We now have two women in the Episcopal College, and we have eleven women among the 102 prosthetics. The fact that there are a low percentage of women in these leadership positions is largely due to the fact that we don't have more than about one percent. 18 pst. women in the full performance. The renewal of the pastor's service that we're now in is motivated by a lot of considerations. An important consideration is that the new organisation will be able to operate from an equal opportunities perspective. With the new service arrangements, there will be room for adaptation to the life and family situation of the individual clergyman. This is consideration that is traditionally important for women. All in all, I think that the structural changes that the services of the clergy are currently undergoing will be beneficial for the equality work in the church. And I want to add: it was the ministry that in its time took the initiative for these changes. The mission to the Church is large and wide-ranging. I believe that the Church will always experience that the economic and material arrangements for this mission are not good enough. Of course, according to the Church's mission, it is difficult to look objectively at the needs of the Church's resources. The church budget for 2005 and the threat training effort represent a strengthening of the financial base of Kyrkja. In this context, it is also important that the tax exemption limit for gifts to voluntary organisations, including the Norwegian Church, increases from NOK 6 000 to NOK 12 000 in 2005. Although I see the need for many fields within the Church, I am satisfied and happy with the increase in the Church budget in 2005. Excuse me, President, is this the wrong number here? Can I talk a little bit?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1170	The president had forgotten to start the clock, and expected that the council had a script that fit!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1173	It's not always that it does, but it's okay!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1178	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1181	I want to discuss this with religious training in the SFO. The Church Council interpreted Storting’s decision last year that baptism training, faith training, should not be part of the SFO offer. That's what the Stortinget said. But the Council of Churches' interpretation is yes to belief training within the SFO system. In Ot.prp. No 30 for 2004-2005, which has just arrived in Stortinget, thus underpins the interpretation of the Ministry of the Council of Churches to include baptism training in the SFO scheme. My question to the Council of State is: Where in the decision of the Grand Council, the Council of State finds the basis for turning the decision – as a majority of the Grand Council has done – and interprets it to the point that the Grand Council has said yes, we want a confession in the SFO. The whole thing said the opposite. We said no.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1189	Yes, I think very well of the discussion we had here in the main hall when we had the truss training up for debate. The representative probably knows that I have listened to what goes on at the confirmation training, and I also took the threat training in the SFO during this hearing session. That thing's come to the Storting. She went through the state council last Friday, and the Stortinget now has her to handle. We have not dealt with anything about SFO in the matter we sent to Stortinget, because I have actually respected the decision that the Stortinget has made in relation to handling when it concerns SFO. The Church Council has looked at the wording of the Training Act. There are formulations that suggest that local adjustments can be made. I expect and hope that they will get the Stortinge with them on the same interpretation – that if necessary, local adjustments can be made. But the Church Council is very concerned that trust training is a scheme to be kept outside the SFO. But it's about opening hours, and it's about what time of day you can give truss training.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1198	As I mentioned in my main contribution, the loan arrangement for church buildings is one of the benefits in the committee's professional policy area that we already got into the financial agreement. The scheme I know has been received with enthusiasm and great commitment – it also – out with those who are struggling with church buildings that are poorly maintained. The party of progress is pleased with the result. We have comments such as: points out that ‘the scheme is implemented in close cooperation with, inter alia: Antiquarian authorities and ecclesiastical bodies»; We're concerned that we get the guidelines in place fairly quickly, so that we can get started and use the funds. It's obvious that more than 500 million are needed. kr. I also think that we get well documented applications, we actually also get a good estimate when it comes to at least part of the need. But my main point now in this round is to stress – and ask the Council of State to take care of – that this has to go reasonably quickly, so that we can start spending money on the maintenance of the churches.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1205	It is really easy and quick to answer that question: I want to do my job, of course, so that it will go as quickly as possible. I'm aware that's a big need. It has been a great need for many, many years, and now it has a grip on it. I would like to add that we will come to Stortinget with a big message about the economy in Church, and then, of course, the maintenance of the churches is also part of that topic. But now we're actually starting a little bit earlier with the 500 million. kr in the loan scheme, to which the Storting will join later today. We have to do our best to make this work quickly. I have no schedule with me today. I hope the representative understands that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1212	Collecting treasures on earth is not a biblical ideal. The parable of the rich man is not very encouraging to us. We in SV proposed, among other things: to draw more from the funds, to use greater returns from the funds to introduce them into church activity. We actually suggested taking out 4 million. Extra kroner. We believe that this is within the limits previously set by the Stortinget in relation to maintaining the real value of the fund. We didn't get through to that. So, the majority still believe that collecting taxes on the earth is a good ideal, rather than using the funds for church activity, as we suggested quite concretely. We suggested using them on the service system, on those who work against violence, etc., and on Nidarosdom. The Council of State does not consider that there is a basis for increasing the withdrawal and staying within the framework, when the 2005 budget provides for the same withdrawal of the Fund as in 2004, i.e. approx. Twenty-five million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1221	As far as we have knowledge of the current value of the fund, we cannot take out more than what we have entered into the budget. That's why we've been drawing out more than we should in the years before, because then the forecasts were worse than they've been in the last year, when it comes to the growth of the fund. Based on the decisions we've made on the Storting about adjusting the fund, that it should not lose its real value, we've gone as far as we can from the knowledge we have today, about the fund's finances and adjustments in more withdrawals for the year before, as the result was not as good for the fund as it is likely to be next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1226	I would like to draw attention to a comitology comment on this with a parole agreement. I am pleased that an overall committee has joined the comment, where the Stortinget asks ‘The government takes the necessary initiatives to conclude the treatment of a contingency agreement for the priests’. This is a matter that has been there for a long time. The position of the priests, always to be available and always to be ready, is something that has to do with a lot of priests – that's why I'm glad that the committee here has said so. But the question to the Council of State is: how will the Council of State follow up this majority remark?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1233	It is the government's view that such a contingency agreement actually belongs to the payroll settlement. We have discussed this recently and have called for this to be a matter that will be put on the agenda in the spring pay resolution. This is a pay question. I am a whole unit in the representative of the Skjärlaaen's description of the situation: this is a job that priests have done for years without getting anything for it. They have also been available 24 hours a day without getting any pay for that job. And when it comes to basic wages and salaries, it's very true that one shouldn't collect taxes on the earth. So in many ways this is a requirement that should have been satisfied for a long time. But it's Government's view that this has to be on the table for the spring payroll. I hope that one can negotiate to a compensation that reflects the efforts made by the priests.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1238	I was respectfully told not to answer the question I asked instead. I have to quote from the odelstingsproposition, where it says that the ministry ‘understand that the decision to raise awareness of the threat training and the school leisure arrangements shall be interpreted as understood by the Council of Churches’. So, it has to be capable of being adapted and incorporated into an SFO scheme. This cannot be seen as different from the department's belief that belief training can be included in the SFO. It is with respect to report in relation to the answer I received, double accounting. So I ask again in concrete terms: does the Council of State think that Stortinget's decision opens up so that belief training can be conducted within the SFO scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1250	I think that truss training should be conducted in the church building and where church sounds want to run this training. The question here is whether you can provide trust training in the opening hours of the SFO. Sorry, but you may not give a municipality instructions not to start trust training with SFO's opening time. Not everyone is using the SFO system, and if there's a church sound that wants to give faith training in the church soundhouses in the opening hours of the SFO, we can't order them not to do so. There's something of the rationale, and I hope that the committee, when it comes to dealing with this matter, will take a closer look at what has been said before. We haven't agreed to change the church law to open one for trust training in the SFO, but we interpret the training law in the same way as the Church Council has done. Therefore, it is not mentioned at all in the cases that were sent to Stortinget last Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1255	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1258	The primary task of schools is the dissemination of knowledge. A school where students do not acquire knowledge is reduced to a place of residence. Through St. Meld. No 30 for 2003–04, the Government and the majority of the population have provided the Norwegian school with the necessary framework conditions to be the good knowledge provider in a good social and pedagogical environment. The PISA survey which took place last week confirms the need for the measures adopted. It is very gratifying that decisions are followed up in the State budget, among others. through the great commitment to empowerment of teachers. The allocation for this purpose is unparalleled in Norwegian history. It is also very gratifying that a strategy plan for the development of competences has been drawn up in close cooperation with school owners and organisations. It is necessary to enhance the competence of teachers in order to provide Norwegian students with the necessary knowledge. It is not satisfactory that our students are far below average in international studies. The chairman of the Committee, the representative of Rikvam, said in an interview that this was not a cause for concern. Then I can say on the Right that we strongly disagree. It gives cause for concern, and government and greatness have already reacted through our decisions. ‘Learning culture’ is a reform that is now followed up in the budget. It is therefore difficult to understand that the head of the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg, in an interview after the PISA study called for a rapid quality reform. I have not received St.meld. No 30 and the promise of knowledge? The reform has already been adopted and is followed up in the budget. The effects of the decisions and measures taken by the Council of State and the Government will not be measurable for several years. PISA 2003 is therefore not a judgment of the Clement School, as some have claimed. Those who claim this, they don't have chronology in order. The study was carried out in May 2003 and the Communication on Culture for Learning was addressed in the United Kingdom in June 2004. This is a judgment over the 1990s and L97! The budget has a strong commitment to empowering teachers and school leaders. It's necessary, and it's joyous. It is also important that these funds are largely managed by the individual school and school owners. The past has shown that competence drugs have been used all too often at random, almost by means of the approach, with little or no positive effect in school and in the learning environment. If the means are to have the desired effect, there must be a plan that emphasises the needs locally. I am pleased that the Committee has once again underlined the importance of the country lines in higher education. This is not the first time the committee has reversed the proposed cut. In particular, it is important that cost-intensive landlines can maintain their status. It is necessary to provide these offers with the necessary economy and predictability. Landlines in sport and folk music, which are not very costly, can have a changed status in connection with a hopefully positive decision here in the Chamber on free school choice across county borders. This will be in line with the Committee's majority opinion in its last year's budgetary position, and I expect this to be followed up by the Ministry. Let me also comment on the short adult education chapter. In the last few years, both study associations and distance learning have been cut to some extent, and the pain limit has now been reached. The reduction of grants has been positive to some extent by the fact that the study federations have had to invest in activities that provide performance beyond the state grant, but further reduction could be very damaging. I would like to point out the Committee's comment, asking the Stortinget to submit a review of the Adult Education Act and the Adult Education Project's report of July 2003. I would also like to point out the situation of the centres of expertise and the concerns within the field of the planned reorganisation. A joint committee is behind the proposal for a review of the state budget for 2006, and I assume that we will then have a rich opportunity to debate the future organisation. I want to spend the last few minutes on the church budget. I would like to commend the Council of State for the way in which the reform of faith training has been followed up. The 2005 budget is almost double compared to 2004. It's very positive. In this way, the number of test suites may be extended so that the in-flight evaluation can become real and span the required width of the experimental pool. Neither the number of churches, 99 of the Church’s over 1,100 congregations, nor the time aspect is sufficient for the reform to be evaluated now. It is disappointing that the Labour Party will not increase the appropriations, but will only continue today’s level with the addition of evaluation tools. In reality, this must be read as if the Workers' Party were going to stop the faith training reform and put it to death. That is extremely regrettable. I am therefore pleased that the majority is still at the conclusion of the treatment of religious training and sees the importance of this great work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1282	At the outset, I would like to point out from the Committee that it is also the church committee that is now dealing with its budget. I think it is important to make it visible that the Church is important both for us as people and for the work we are going to do on the Storting. The church's celebrations follow us in large and small through a long life. The Church still means a lot to people most, not only to those who participate most actively, who go to worship every Sunday, and who participate in the church work, but also to the wider community. The Norwegian Church is and will remain a people's church, we agree on that, although we may add slightly different definitions in the word "people's church". But the Church will express the relationship between state and church in Norway no matter what kind of connection we want in the future. The councils were about equality in the Church, and I'm very happy about that. The Equality Act shall contribute to the promotion of equality, and shall stipulate that women and men have equal opportunities for education, work, cultural and professional development. In 1999, the Church meeting adopted a separate action plan on women’s issues and gender equality. Two years later, a strategy plan was adopted which included: states that equality work is to permeate each area of activity in the Church. Presten Gry Friis Eriksen has used a scholarship to study this, and concludes that the mainstreaming of the gender perspective in the Norwegian Church is random and person-dependent. Friis Eriksen calls for concrete action. We have not yet looked forward to some revised action plan. Several of the Church's employees are calling for a new grant and a broad commitment to equality in the Church. I am therefore pleased that the Church meeting has taken this up on its own initiative. The church meeting is an important assembly, and their debates mean a lot to what kind of church we want in the future – but I do not have the help of the council. How can the Church improve on the issues of women and gender equality? The numbers' speech is ready. Of the 100 protests we have in the Norwegian Church, it's just said that there are only 11 women. In 1999, the share of female performers was only 14 pst. It is a setback when we can still read that women are not adjusted to church jobs because of their sex or their orientation. Then I need to say something about the baptismal training. I need to remember the primary position of the Workers' Party when we dealt with the baptism training in Stortinget. The representative Lyngstad has been quick to characterise the Workers' Party in terms of our attitude to the baptismal training. Both the representative Lyngstad and others have clearly forgotten the Workers' Party's position when the baptism training was dealt with in this room. I can assure the representative Lyngstad and the others that our attitude towards baptism training is the same today as the one we had then. We then believed, and we still believe, that a limited number of congregations should carry out the project activity, and that the extension of the number of participating communities should only take place after evaluation has been carried out. It's a position we've had all along, I think it should respect that you follow it on. The working party is on it. We want proposals for project implementation followed by evaluation, and then we want to expand the number of congregations. But we want to know about the project that's being carried out before we expand it to the number that the majority here wants. So a little bit for the year's budgetary procedure in the committee. Whether or not the examination within the Committee has been very elucidative. We have seen the government parties in a happy twin band with the Progress Party, and have been able to record how well-being on that side of the committee board has been growing. It seems playfully easy for the Right to embrace the Advance Party, and strikingly easily for the Christian People's Party to be on the road. Perhaps this impression does not reflect the negotiation process as it really was – I do not know – but that is the impression you are left with after the end of the year's budgetary procedure in the Committee. The Labour Party has continued in its alternative budget the education policy we have pursued in recent years. It is rather frustrating when, year after year, the government in its budget proposal takes the same fights in Stortinget. I can mention landlines, safety training for fishermen, cuts in adult education resources, etc., etc. Even unanimous decisions in the main hall asking for evaluation and feedback are ignored by the Government. I think that's sad. Another important area where the Government has cut every single year is within adult education. We know that parts of the major adult education reform do not work as intended. Very few take advantage of the possibility of entering high school or higher education. This has almost become an elite reform, where most of those who use the opportunities are people with high levels of education. Studies also show that those who do not use the options justify this lack of money. The government has an explicit objective of investing in lifelong learning, but the Council of State and the Government have stated that cuts in adult education have been made for budgetary reasons and that in recent years the ministry has chosen to give priority to other groups. Governments have not used the word ‘tax relief’, but it is well in the cards. The working party has continued its current level of safety training for fishermen in its alternative budget. The working party has continued the operation of all national lines. The Labour Party has strengthened the economy of municipalities, so that the economy of the public school can also be strengthened. Finally, I would like to state once again that the Workers' Party is strongly opposed to the undisclosed arrangement for setting up private schools that are now taking place. The Labour Party wants to strengthen public school — and not stimulate an additional fragmented education system, either at primary or secondary level.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1312	The government has submitted a budget in which a rate of education. Concrete follow-up of St. Meld. No 30 for 2003-2004 on quality of initial training is a main priority. The government also continues to follow up the Quality Reform in Higher Education, a reform that now, one year after it was introduced, begins to deliver the desired results, in terms of lower ironing rates, better flow through, closer follow-up and better results for the students. For the government parties and the Progress Party, it was important to underline the importance of the student travel scholarship as part of a good Norwegian study funding. We put the $30 million in place. kr to the travel student and changed something on the device of it, so that it got an enhanced social profile. The scholarship is clearly the most important for those students who have long and expensive travel routes. It is most important to maintain the best possible arrangement for these students. The recent debate on student learning outcomes confirms the need and accuracy of the course change with the reform of the Knowledge Promise, which was adopted by the Stortinget in June. With a clear focus on basic skills, clear learning objectives, local freedom of method combined with national quality assurance, adapted training, increased hours and increased requirements – in combination with action plans already in place for increased literacy and skill and real-time investment – Norwegian schools move clearly towards increased knowledge and learning outcomes. That's why the government's commitment to empowering teachers is so important. A binding agreement signed by the Education Association, the KS and the Ministry gives good reason to be optimistic. In total, 700 million are invested in this budget. on skills enhancement, new curricula with clear and committed learning objectives and four new weekly lessons at the level of the child. In total, the three-year government has allocated money to twelve new weekly hours at the nursery, after the hour was still in the 1990s. After three years with this government, we no longer live in a vacuum where no one knows much about the state of Norwegian school. Deliberate information collection and monitoring have shown that much is being done correctly and well. At the same time, however, it has shown that we have major challenges, including: in the case of real-time learning outcomes in Norwegian and Swedish. The first is that knowledge needs to be improved, and the second is that the learning environment is affected by unrest and lack of discipline. These signals must be taken seriously by everyone — and not dismissed or explained out. Had it been so that more money alone was the solution, we would not have had challenges. But despite being – and still being – at the top of the world in terms of resource use, we have challenges in terms of organisation, adapted training, knowledge, learning outcomes and discipline. Simply put, if we don't have the power to build the foundation wall for young children, which forms the foundation for further learning, we have failed. A society that does not take students, knowledge and learning outcomes seriously is a cold society. Society does not get hotter by ignoring the challenges, sitting still and watching thousands of students fall through – because there is no willingness to think new and do what is needed to build the ground wall. But the Workers' Party continues to cloud the content debate in the school. It is confirmed by the focus of the lot in the budgetary procedure. In primary education, they focus on school leisure arrangements and camp schools. In the last few days, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have promoted the demand for free school food, a requirement in the 2-3 billion-dollar class – which should be the answer to lack of learning outcomes and low-adapted training. In VG 11 December, the Karita Bekkemelm Orheim of the Workers' Party writes of ‘a educational debate that has been marked by quantitative dietary/benefit analyses’. And she writes: ‘It is wrong to measure good school development in relation to business economic indicators such as efficiency and productivity.’ The working party should soon begin to concentrate on participating in the content debate on Norwegian school and stop polishing against what they believe is – and would like to be – the government’s policy. None other than the left-hand side uses business economic terms in the school debate. The government doesn't! The scientists don't! But on the left hand side, it's obviously much easier to relate to wanted batteries than to real debates. In the article, Beckemelm Orheim concludes that we need ‘more skilled teachers, better school buildings, libraries and gymnasiums’. The need for skilled teachers has been addressed by the Government by composing new teacher training and investing in empowerment. But the school debate in Norway is not about gymnasiums. It is about learning outcomes, knowledge and adapted training. The government is working hard to build the foundation for young children, a work that requires clarity, responsibility, prioritisation, commitment and warmth. We make demands because we care. A society where people care is a warm society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1345	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1348	Early this morning I was at Lucia lunch, where the priest in my congregation could announce that the congregation had been awarded money for religious training last Friday, with the reservation – of course – that the budget is being adopted today. There's a lot of enthusiasm around the churches. I record that we had not received this with the Labour Party budget. The Labour Party also has no answer to my challenge, but uses attacks as a defense in this case. The school shall also develop students through values, ethics and culture. The Committee refers to the value project ‘Shall not,’ as an example. The KRL is a different subject. In June, the Church, Education and Research Committee gathered on the school's objectives: to provide children and young people with general education, personal development, knowledge and skills. We stressed that teachers are the school's most important resource and are crucial for students' learning outcomes. The Christian People's Party is particularly pleased that the government is following this up by putting off $300 million. for the lifting of the competence of teachers. As the case-rapporteur for the Culture for Learning paper, it was important to stress that greater emphasis should be placed on committed and competent teachers, and that the teaching profession should be valued and respected. The new PISA study reinforces the impression of the need for the Knowledge Lift. Studies show that many teachers are too yielding and little supportive. Cooperation with PPT, parents and school management must also be used for the development of competences. High teacher density is important. We still have to have that. I think we need to follow closely the development of this in our long-term country. After many visits to schools in Westfold, it is my definite impression that a lot is good. New schools are being built, the old ones are being rehabilitated, they are being invested in computers and other equipment. Attitude and good training characterise many schools. For example, at Berger School in Svelvik, what is on this oblate is respect – care – responsibility, the title of their school daily life. Universities are a valuable part of the school system that promotes general education, public education and self-development. State funding is in line with the Innst. O. No 85 for 2001-2002, stressing that the annual adjustments to the grant will take place in the light of student development and general cost developments. This creates predictability for schools. It was also pointed out that the national higher education landscape should not be static but evolve in line with the needs of new schools. State higher education institutions shall, in cooperation with research environments and businesses, create regional development. There is a need to create arenas for the development of competences between them, as mentioned in the Government's overall innovation policy plan. Good premises are also important to ensure quality in education. We know that there are many construction projects under planning. One of them is the co-location of the University of Vestfold. In the opinion of the Committee, priority must be given to the fact that the construction project of the co-localisation of higher education in Westfold has been designed and has an approved cost framework and is therefore ready to be launched. So far, 22 million have been used. kr for design.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1371	Everyone agrees that education is very important. Education is so essential that it is the only offer that is mandatory for everyone. No parent or child may opt out of education. The foundation of life is very much built on which education you get, and the basic wall of society is the knowledge of its inhabitants. This is a backtrace that we, as education politicians, must have. A faulty education policy has a higher price than political defeat and shame on the part of those responsible. Wrong educational policies can destroy thousands of individuals and bring the country back many years. This is a policy area where there is no room for political experimentation and political snuffing. On Monday, an international comparative study — PISA — was presented. Norwegian students make it quite poor compared to students in other countries. Especially Norwegian students are quite weak in real science. Some of the problem areas cited are that Norwegian curricula are unclear and without binding learning objectives, that there is a lack of skills training, and that there is a lack of skills in the real world of teachers. This is unfortunately something we cannot be proud of. In 2001, the right went to the choice that the school needed a high-quality school and that the school as a knowledge intermediary had to come to the centre. Following its accession, the Co-operation Board has received a majority for a number of changes that focus on knowledge, both among teachers and students. Recording requirements for teacher training, new curricula, national tests and a level of competence among teachers are only some of the measures taken. Some thought and believe that the Cooperative Government, Right and Kristin Clemet, are progressing too quickly in quality raising in primary school. When we know how important education is, how long it takes to change school, and how Norway is in relation to the level of knowledge, we have no time to lose. Today, we are adopting a historic amount, which is to increase the competence of teachers and school leaders. This, together with a fundamental change in Norwegian school through the school reform The promise of knowledge, we will in the future see the fruits of. Finally, I would like to draw attention to an important measure that is being adopted today. On a proposal from the Government, the size will increase the depreciation rates for student loans for borrowers who live and work in Finnmark. No one has mentioned this, but it is a joyous news, which can contribute both to the recruitment of teachers and a high level of competence to an area that has had a bad time with it. So what the Storting is doing today by adjusting the rates in the Action Zone, the Storting is going to be proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1388	While the Government and the others involved in the debate on Norwegian school content discuss learning outcomes, discipline, knowledge, skills enhancement and adaptation of training, the left-hand side has also spoken out of these discussions during today's debate, which are obviously difficult for the left-hand side of the policy. They keep talking about the SFO, about empty pool, gymnasiums and camp schools. I have not heard one post from the left-hand side where you have to go into the content debate properly. On the contrary, I have heard a lot about the local economy. Karita Bekkemelm Orheim spoke about ‘daily feedback’ on cuts in the municipalities. Vidar Bjørnstad spoke of «cut in our field of hundreds of millions of dollars». The only ones who cut in our sector are the Workers' Party's sea. So when the representative Bekkelem Orheim says it's being cut into the education budget in Stortinget, it's said in a seizure of deep self-esteem. In fact, the Workers' Party's alternative arrangement for the municipalities would mean an increase of approx. 49 million. kr in the revenue for 2005 compared to the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party. When we know roughly that about one third of the municipal economy goes to school and education, that means that the increase would be about 16 million. kr. Evenly divided by 434 municipalities, it becomes NOK 37 557 per person. municipality. It must therefore represent a huge boost for the school sector, compared with the local economy that the Workers' Party is attacking. As if not enough, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party will send a giant bill to the municipalities before the ink in the setting is dry, a bill of NOK 2-3 billion for free school food. It's not for more teachers, not for free schoolbooks, gyms, pool filling, libraries, camp schools or SFOs, not for quality development measures, but for food. It will literally eat up the marginal difference in the budget of the Labour Party and the budgetary agreement. I repeat my call to the Workers' Party in particular, which has run the Ministry of Education almost the entire post-war period, to dry up and dry to think something about the content of Norwegian school, to think something about learning outcomes, to think something about empowerment, to think something about knowledge, clear learning goals and adapted training.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13.ana.ud1583e1397	According to the decision of the Storting earlier today, the meeting is now suspended and will be resumed at 9 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
