ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e34	The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Ola Røtvej, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e43	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e48	I suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e53	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative of Sylvia Brustad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e58	On behalf of the representative Olav Aksensen and myself, I would like to make proposals to ensure the development and growth of regional power companies by providing opportunities for access to increased public equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e63	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e77	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2862]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e97	First, I wish the Council of State welcome back. It is good to see that she has recovered again. Every day, we receive, as magnification representatives, several requests from frustrated contributors who feel very unfairly treated. Most people who turn to it see that the rules for the distribution of children, association or child contribution are balanced, even though many would like to think of the right to care, more association or less to pay in contributions. Therefore, it may be extra difficult that the arrangements do not ensure that the other party does not respect the facts. I would like to refer from such an enquiry: ‘In our case, and probably many others as well, the beneficiary has found a ‘smuthole’ in the system that she is now exploiting for her own economic gain. That she disputes the existence of a relationship with father is automatically taken as a result of [...] the local Social Security Agency. We have a parental agreement, signed by both parties at the Family Protection Office with a therapist present [...]. We thought it would continue until we were told that the beneficiary's information was based on the form we were asked to fill in in the conversion of the grant rules. The reason why the parental agreement is not valid is that it does not have coercive force, I have been informed by the head of the Translation Centre that I was able to speak. This means that the county must enter the picture in order to determine association, and this can only be done if both parties agree. This is not the case in our case, and therefore has no other option than to go to court, which costs between $100,000 and $200,000, and which cannot be for the benefit of children either? ‘... So here we have an example of a mother depriving her child of contact with father, and the result is that father has to pay more contributions or undergo a long and expensive trial. Note that the beneficiary does not risk anything by doing so. I know that we will come back with an evaluation of the new contribution scheme for the autumn. When the Stortinge dealt with the new rules on child contributions, the Progress Party agreed with most of the principles laid down in the new scheme. The position that we had at the time, we're standing by. At the same time, we knew at the time, and have been confirmed now, that in some cases the new arrangements will become unreasonable. It also includes those cases where one party either sabotages association or does not sign the consensual certificate. Unfortunately, it takes all the time, and in the middle of it, contributors have unfair claims on themselves. Yes, even some have been subjected to both police investigation and other investigations because the beneficiary has notified the person for incest or other abuses, which in retrospect are found not to be a team, and the case is dismissed. The other side of this case is that with the new contribution scheme, the less you have with your children, the higher the contribution – which in itself is no more than fair and reasonable. However, when the beneficiary can then sabotage the association and at the same time receive a higher contribution, it is flawed. I don't want to attack the new contribution scheme with this interpellation, but what I want is that we focus on instruments to prevent beneficiaries from making serious accusations, which can actually help to deprive the child of valuable time with their parents. At the same time, we know that such accusations can destroy a person for a long time to come. The builder is one of the monsters that seems to wake up as soon as you hear the word incest. A sneaking suspicion that there is enough truth in the claim can be very burdensome for the person concerned, regardless of whether one is acquitted or the case is dismissed. It should therefore have implications for persons making such claims against others. In the case of sabotage of association, we should also be able to find tools that can be used. Too many contributors experience not meeting their children because the other party sabotages the company. It may be anything from not putting the child on the plane despite the fact that the ticket has been paid by the contributor, to not opening the door when one of the parties has come to have sex with the child. The UN Children's Convention says that all children have the right to both their parents. This Convention has now incorporated Norway into its laws. There should therefore be no doubt that it is every parent's duty to ensure that the child's rights to both parents are the same. For the Advancement Party, it is the child and what is best for the child, who will always be in focus. We therefore believe it is very important that we discuss this issue which is linked to false reports and sabotage of association. The Progress Party does not believe that conflicts between two parties go beyond just by legislating that such and such should be the case. But we have faith that if the Storing and the Government indicate that false reports and sabotage of association can actually mean a criminal reaction, it will help prevent and even prevent such conflicts from occurring. Children are the most loyal one can imagine, and that adult people contribute to creating loyalty conflicts in their own children should in itself be punishable. Now I have to hurry to make it clear that the vast majority of life breaks and child sharing things are actually going very well. It shows that the vast majority of parents are able to see what is best for their own child, and find practical solutions that allow the child to get together with both parents. But then there is a group – in percent not as big as maybe, but in number actually significant, you have to consider it after the number of requests we receive as a big-time representative – who is struggling very hard: contributors who are punished several times, so to speak, by not having to meet their children and get a significantly higher contribution because they do not have a relationship with their children. When these parents contact the social security office, they are told to arrange a written association agreement. In other words, they must be shown that they really have association, even if they do not. Complicated? Yes, and perhaps even unrealistically – believing that a party who deliberately does everything it can to sabotage a relationship would write it down on a paper, might well be something naive, to say it carefully. Thus, some contributors end up between bark and wood and have to pay a lot more than they really should, despite the fact that they would like to be with their children. To argue, as the Single Parent Association does, that some lonely dependants have very poor finances and that the contributor should pay more is hardly a good argument for sabotaging association. The economic situation of single dependants needs to be discussed elsewhere and not become an additional burden on the contributor. The most important thing is the child, and if children are to grow up with a safe and sound foundation, there is clearly a need for both parents, whether their parents are able to live together or not. The problem for the Storting and the Government is whether we are going to legislate for this in a special law, or whether it is going to be covered by the already existing law. This can, and should, be discussed on a broad basis. I think a right way to go is to identify the extent of co-conspiracy bottling and fake reviews. I think you're going to have to learn a little bit about a difficult problem, so you can get a hold of it and actually do something about it. Some numbers on how many there are that have actually been or are exposed to sabotage and false reviews, I don't have. But when we know that there are loopholes in the law that make you earn money to sabotage, we should do something that ensures the children right to both parents, and then the parents start acting like adults and responsible people and making sure that the children get rid of both the conflict and the rope pull. So maybe both parents should be heard by the social security office, so that not everything depends on one party, while the other stands back indiscriminately. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to bring about life's false accusations or sabotage of children's rights from parents involved in child-sharing or child-care matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e147	Child-distribution or child-support cases where abuse claims are made or where association is refused will consistently be difficult and serious issues of high conflicts between parents. Our main task in such serious matters must be to take care of the child. Karin S. Woldseth addresses the issue with false accusations, both in relation to child distribution matters and in relation to contribution matters. The situation will be different in the two types of cases, and I will therefore treat them separately and start with the child-distribution issues. It is terrible if a parent makes false accusations of assault in order to win a claim to have the child live with him or her or to prevent the other party from getting together. It is for the courts to decide on the claims made. False accusations of justice could lead to criminal liability. In addition, in a child-sharing case, it could be very negative in relation to the possibilities of winning in the case. The personal characteristics of the parents are a component of a child’s best judgment, and it is clear that it would be considered a very negative feature of a parent’s making such claims if they were false. In my opinion, therefore, there is no lack of sanctions against the person making false allegations of infringement, the biggest problem. The difficult issue is what to do in cases where it is impossible to decide whether the claims are correct or incorrect. It can be hard to prove that assault has taken place. If the claims are made without correctness, it is tragic both for the parent affected and for the child, who is at risk of losing or having his or her contact with him or her. If the claims are true but not weighted, a child may be subject to continued abuse. My main concern is whether allegations of abuse are given sufficient emphasis in the courts. I have met many parents and received many letters that express doubt that the children must stay with or be sent together to an offender who commits a crime against the children, and who may also be convicted of violence, without the courts having taken this into account in the decision. It is also important for me to focus a little on this issue here today. In this context, the Ministry set up a working group to discuss issues related to issues of parental responsibility, permanent residence and association where there is a suspicion of violence and abuse. It appeared from the mandate that attention should be paid to the need to protect the child from the adverse effects of any future abuses initially to outweigh the consideration of potential adverse effects by losing contact with one of the parents. The report of the working party shows, among other things: for two research projects, the Fobik project, Tjersland et al. 2002 and Kristin Sjørten’s study, Children’s Distribution cases for Lawyers’ Rights 1998–2000. The review of the skirt shows, for example: that the claim of violence against the child is attributed little or no weight in most of the cases, and that out of ten cases where there is a claim that father has committed sexual assault against the child, it is only in one that the court suggests that this has happened. The analysis of the Fobik project indicates that the claim for evidence of child abuse is raised alarmingly high in the case of sexual abuse. The working group has made proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act to ensure that the courts are adequately aware of the seriousness of the adverse effects that the child may have on the child by being subjected to abuse and place sufficient emphasis on this in demonstrably difficult cases. The report is now out for consultation. It is, of course, terrible to be subjected to groundless accusations, and no emphasis should be placed on any allegation of abuse. But when assessing the conflict between parents and justice considerations in relation to them, we must not lose sight of the child. We need to ensure that children are not sent to live together or are permanently resident with a parent who is subjected to abuse. We need to protect children from injuries caused by abuse. Therefore, the requirement of proof must not be unduly high. So for children's contributions: disagreement between parents about the association and sabotage of association between one of the parties has also become topical in the context of new rules on contributions. The level of conflict is high in some cases and it is too difficult to reach an agreement. I am following this development carefully. The size has in Innst. S. No 227 for 2002-2003 asked the Government to carry out a continuous and thorough evaluation of the impact of the new rules on contributions in line with Ot. pp. No 43 for 2000-2001, cf. Inner. O. No 127 for 2000-2001. The evaluation process requested by the Stortinget is under way, and the factors that will be assessed in this context are whether the rules for deduction of association work after the intention. The evaluation may contribute to knowledge of the reasons for disagreement and how to resolve such conflicts between parents. As promised, I will give the Stortinget a first feedback on the experience of this work in the context of the budgetary procedure in autumn 2004, i.e. later this year. As promised in the past, a separate forecast will be submitted to the Stortinget by the end of 2005. If the evaluation work shows that the new legislation produces adverse results, I would suggest that the necessary regulatory adjustments be made. From 1 April this year we have also received new rules of procedure in child distribution cases before the courts. The rules include, inter alia: that the best interests of the child shall be decisive both for the decisions taken and for the proceedings themselves. It is statutory for the court to expedite the proceedings as much as possible, and for lawyers and judges dealing with such cases to assess the possibility of reaching a settlement between the parties and to facilitate this. The judge may, at an early stage in the case, be assisted by qualified children in a more targeted way in order to contribute to contractual solutions. Experts may include: assist and mediate between parents and parents in the practice of agreement for a probationary period. So this is a completely new approach that has recently been implemented. The age limit for unconditional rights of expression for children has also been lowered from 12 to 7 years, in order to ensure that even smaller children are given the opportunity to express their views on child distribution matters. The government also wants to strengthen the mediation system by offering an extended offer to the couples who need mediation the most in order to conclude parental responsibility agreements, where the child will live permanently, and the extent of association – not least in order to establish association agreements. In this context, it is working to increase the competence of the mercenaries in complex family matters. The size has also joined the Government's proposal in the family communication that mandatory mediation be introduced for cohabitants with common children in the event of a breakup, similar to that for married couples. Legislative proposals on this will be sent to the hearing during the year. I hope that the new rules of procedure and a strengthened mediation system will help more parents reach agreement on good arrangements and that this will reduce the level of conflict between parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e188	What is common to all cases with the issue we are now facing, whether in matters of contributions or child distribution, is the high level of conflict. We agree on that. But I do not agree with the Council when she says that it is the courts that judge a father who has received an incest or assault charge against him. Often you are reported, but then the report is withdrawn, or the case is dismissed and never comes to the courts due to a lack of evidence. In such cases, it is important that sanctions be available to the parties making such false reports. It must be clear that it is terrible for a person who really just wants to have a relationship with his child, to experience such a report. I would like to thank the Council of State for its complementary response. It was good to hear, and it will be exciting to look at the Storing Message that comes after the evaluation of the new rules on contributions. But anyway, I have to be allowed to say that I think it takes a long time. It is now two years from the start of the new contribution scheme to the evaluation and the EEAG is due in 2005. Over the two years, many children in Norway are actually prevented from being with one of their parents. We have to discuss whether it is possible to find tools even during this period, or whether, as I said in my main post, the social security office can listen to both parents, and not just one, in relation to association when a certificate of association is not signed. But nevertheless, the Council of State and I agree that the most important thing is to protect the child. But I also want to say that protecting the child means that the child is entitled to both his or her parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e195	I fully agree with the representative Woldseth that it is incredibly important for children to have – and have – contact with both parents. A child has the right to contact both mother and father. It is clear that it is our responsibility to facilitate this as much as possible and as much as possible. The representative and I also agree that there is an enormously high level of conflict in many of these cases where a father – mainly a father – can experience that association is being boycotted. It is also true that not all cases that are reported are brought to justice. But that's also why we've started some other tools, which the Storting has also joined. It has been a very short time since the introduction of both the new mediation system and the new rules of procedure, which I went through in my first post. These changes will also be important to see how they work over time. With regard to the evaluation of the new rules on contributions, it is precisely association that we have started up with immediately. We have already carried out a survey on the state of association before the introduction of the rules on child care, and it will now be followed up in retrospect. I think that already in 2004, that is, in the budget proposition coming to the harvest, we might see the outlines of how this is handled. And then we'll see if we already see such serious features that you might have to see if there are any other tools we can put in. I'll be willing to evaluate most of it. It is difficult to find the right and important means to do this, and it is clear that neither a government council nor the government can intervene in individual cases, and much of this must be solved by the parents. The Ministry will follow up on evaluations and, as I said, the major message in 2005 will be the most important one. I am aware that it may feel like a long time for those in conflict. I have a lot of understanding for that. At the same time, there is a huge reform we have implemented, and any changes must also be based on a good and thorough evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e206	The size can decide a lot, and so do we, but we can't decide that parents should act as adults and let the best of the child go ahead of everything else. The size has on several occasions passed laws that should point in the right direction, namely to protect the child’s rights to both parents. How is the Storting to decide that parents should not lie and make false accusations? What can the Storting or the Council of State do with that? We have opened up several mediation hours, and we have also given the opportunity for the courts to decide the child distribution and to punish for false accusations. The child’s right to comment on their place of residence has been decided by the child’s size. When one of the parents falls for the temptation to make false accusations, yes, then an assessment should be made whether such action makes the parent fit to have the child cared for. Unfortunately, the struggle for children often becomes a struggle for money. When parents tear and wear steel lamps and bookstores, the fight for the children becomes a struggle for the size of the child’s contribution. We have all, within the Committee and perhaps the whole of the Storting, been contacted in connection with the conversion of the rules on contributions. In the evaluation, the Council of State has promised to look closely at the rules on contributions. I am sure that the Council of State has also received all the enquiries from those who believe that they have had major financial problems due to the conversion. It was never the intention when we adopted them. So I expect the Council of State to take it very seriously. We know that the total family economy means a lot to the child's safety and growth situation. We have now been told through the media that 26 000 children live below the poverty line, and many of these children are actually the children of lonely dependants. I wish that we from this pulpit and in this room could decide that people could get together in terms of the best interests of the children. Unfortunately, we can't do that. I don't think the Council of State would have objected to us adopting it from here either. But it's not like that. The interpellant has put the spotlight on all the adults who can't act like people. It's important anyway. But the best thing for children is what we've been working for all along from this room, and I expect it's also what in the future has to be crucial when we're dealing with important issues about children, in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e221	A foundation in Norwegian and Nordic law and in important international conventions is the best interests of the child. In particular, this issue of assessment is a topic of parental responsibility and association with the children. Therefore, it is very sad to record that parents in the drag struggle for children can make false claims or ince tank stocks to win with their demands. Parenting false information about each other never promotes the best interests of the child. On the contrary, it creates a very unsustainable situation, not least for the main person, namely the child. Finally, in a conflict where mediation is in vain, the court has to decide on claims and claims that are being made. The representative Woldseth calls for sanctions if the parents make false claims or sabotage the child's rights. False charges, reports or testimonies result in criminal liability under our general criminal law. This also applies to false accusations of incest made in a child distribution case. The Children's Act has also taken into account the fact that parents who experience the other sabotaging association may require a new decision both on who should have parental responsibility and on the question of day-to-day care. Together, the rules of criminal law and the Children’s Act constitute a set of rules which, in my view, provide sanctions for those who experience that the other party is acting unfairly. I don't think there's a lack of sanctions against the person who makes false claims of assault, which is the biggest problem. The biggest challenge, in my view, is what you do in those cases where there is left to doubt whether allegations of incest are correct. If the claim is at all promoted and proved to be incorrect, this in itself is enough to harm the child. Therefore, it is so important that such serious accusations are promoted only where there is in fact a suspicion of abuse, and not as a means of training or winning a child-distribution case. In the context of the new rules on contributions which entered into force on 1 October 2003, disagreement on cooperation has again become topical. Right was for the principles of the new Code of Contribution. But, of course, it cannot be excluded that the new legislation can produce unintended results, and to see whether the legislation works according to the intention, the new contribution scheme will be evaluated. It is reassuring to hear that this work is under way in the department. I hope the grips that have been taken in relation to, among other things. the rules of contribution and amendments to the Children’s Act, the mediation mechanism and the rules of procedure will result in more parents agreeing on schemes that are in the best interests of their children and with the least possible conflict between their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e234	In a question to the government council last autumn, I raised the so-called parental hostility syndrome, a problem that is growing in the face of a breakup of life. It goes without saying what the syndrome is all about. Between 20 000 and 30 000 Norwegian children experience that their parents have long-standing and long-term conflicts with regard to life crimes. These children are at risk of developing parental resistance syndrome. The syndrome was first described in the 1980s by American psychiatrist Richard Gardner. It develops in a breakup where parents do not cooperate and one or both affect the child in a negative direction. There is relatively little research in the field. I've encouraged the Council of State to do something about this, and I'm waiting to see if initiatives will be taken in this area. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that prevention is much easier than treating parental hostility. A small set of thoughts: Children develop parental hostility especially if parents say unfavorable things about each other or do strongly negative actions against each other. Negative actions are usually part of a dispute. What are you arguing about in the event of a breakup? First of all, it's personal things like living together, cheating, etc. Second, it's money. And thirdly, it's child and companionship. The personal things I don't think we at Stortinget can eliminate. We can't decide that it's going to end adultery, or that it's going to end bad life. But in terms of money and association, we can actually do something. If it had been so that the main rule of a breakup was shared care for the children, it would have been far less to argue about. Then you would remove the main reason for many of the conflicts. The problem is that this is a solution for the Progress Party alone. What about today's system? In a previous question to the Council of State, I have addressed this with association agreements. We need to find a solution that it is now possible to refuse to sign community agreements, even if they are based on real association. Perhaps there are solutions that go in the direction that social security offices can use more discretion. Perhaps you should have free legal proceedings. Perhaps, if false claims are made, one should focus more on hardcore criminal responses. Finally, in some contexts, you get frustrated when you see these things. It could be a call for some parents to behave as adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e249	Most parents agree on who should be responsible for their children in the event of divorce, and cooperate well on financial matters, not least sharing responsibility for their children's upbringing, companionship and care. Unfortunately, this is not the case for all children. It is important that society has instruments to ensure that children have contact with both parents and that legislation is designed to mitigate conflict. Following a great deal of enquiries, the new rules on contributions may seem to have led to a higher level of conflict. Beneficiaries may have an economic interest in the least possible association and contributors may have an interest in the best possible association. At the time of the introduction of the new rules on contributions, SV was – and is still – concerned that economic motives should overshadow the best interests of the child when parents negotiate association. The SV therefore voted against. SV looks forward to the evaluation provided in the 2005 budget. Some parents sabotage association. In such situations, there are only losers. Children become victims directly because of the level of conflict and lose contact with one of their parents. Parents lose the value of an equal parent. Parents who sabotage association get little punishment from society. Parents who are thus excluded get little help from society to maintain the important contact with their own children. We know that some parents have almost ruined themselves financially in the legal system to get together with their children. SV believes that the legal fee imposed for mediation in the event of divorce further increases the level of tension between parents who already have cooperation problems and a high level of conflict. They need help in mediation to agree on economic conditions and community rights, but they have to pay for this help. The biggest losers in these cases are the children. I hope that the Council of State will gradually reconsider this legal fee and remove it, so that more people can get professional help when it comes to breaking life, without costing them financially. Moreover, in many cases both parties face the economic difficulties of a life-long break, which often also increases the level of conflict. I look forward to the fact that the Council of State can make good proposals for concrete measures to ensure that the child's right of association with both parents under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is respected. After the procedure was transferred to the legal system, a number of requests have also been made that the threshold has become higher for many parents to bring the case to justice. I wonder if the Council of State intends to evaluate this side of the case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e264	The question that interpellant Woldseth travels is important, and it is a serious issue. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to focus on children's situation in matters where abuse has also been committed. The Christian People's Party will always focus on the best interests of children in such matters. The interpellant says in his text: «By experience we know...» I put a little question mark on that experience when, as the Council of State also said in its statement, it is only in one of ten cases that accusations of abuse are given weight, in matters of distribution. Sometimes I think: Think for a parent to have to send off his child's farm to someone else when you know it's been committed! Think of what we're doing with that child! The interpellant has, throughout its political function, shown a very great commitment to vulnerable children and young people and the abuses they are subjected to. Also for these children, this is a very serious matter. But it's also, as the interpellant says, terrible with the false accusations being made in relation to assault. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it is unfortunate both for children and for parents. As regards the rules on contributions, it can be seen that the level of conflict can often be high in such cases. I know there's a lot of trouble around the conversion that we've done. But I'm also glad that the evaluation we've been given has now come so far that we see it starting to take shape. I think it is very important that we address the unforeseen effects of the rules on contributions, which are actually there. It will help to reduce the level of conflict. I don't think we can make a code that excludes all games between parents, but I think we sometimes have to recommend adults to be adults in such a context as well. The legal certainty of adults must be balanced against the safety of the child. Maybe we haven't found that balance point yet, but I'm afraid that per. Today, more in the favor of adults than in the favour of children. I would sometimes wish that life were like mathematics, that we could get the simple and logical and only right answers with two lines underneath, but I don't think we can get it through with the code. Association between parents and children also after a break in life is a goal, and that is what we need to achieve in these matters as well. It's wrong for adults to use their children in a game between themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e278	This is in many ways a debate on values, and the values discussed are the relationship between adults and their children. The best thing would have been that we hadn't gotten this interpellation, that this wasn't a problem, but the fact is that it's a problem. But it's being discussed, and it's, despite the fact that it's a problem, an opportunity that you have to take hold of. So it's a dilemma that you talk about taking care of the child when it actually happens as a result of the needs of adults. It is the desire of adults to have closeness to their child who will be involved in managing the opportunities of children. But at the same time it's a paradox, at least for some of us, because parents are not something you choose. That's something you were born with – at good and bad you're born with the parents you have. You can't pick them off. So we're going to have to find a balance in order to maintain the relationship between adults and children. I'm not a second in doubt that adults use children in a power struggle between themselves, and that's immoral. It's far too unsympathetic for parents to do it, while, of course, you can understand that unfortunately it's going to be that way. Another factor in these cases is the expertise and their ability to draw the right conclusions. The legal history in Norway shows that we have not been good enough. We've been too little good to see in the cards what has been the reality. It has resuming old things shown. It shows how delicate such matters are, and how careful we have a commitment to be when we're going to conclude in relation to claims. I also believe that some people who work in the care sector in Norway unfortunately show a misunderstanding about one party. You just assume that you have more confidence in one than in the other. Then I think you lose focus on what's most important, what the child needs. That means you're going to be to those degrees of nocturnal, and you're going to be very conscious of what you're actually doing, and not least the power you have when you're sitting in such a position. Another thing that has been in the debate is the community arrangement and the economy around it. But there is certainly – which I had hoped the Council of State would say something about – opportunities for community arrangements where, for example, it is. are in the presence of others to ensure that the child is also associated with the party for which one might be concerned. If you want to take care of your child's interests, you have the opportunity to intervene and do something about it. I fully agree with those who said that, unfortunately, economics is a crucial factor, and then we have to see if that makes sense, I don't think it is. My conclusion is, as the Council of State also pointed out, that if the rules are wrong, we have an obligation – and that is a matter of course – to assess them and change them. And then we're going to end up with the fact that today's children are tomorrow's future. That's what we're going to do when we're going to draw conclusions from what kind of actions we feel we're obliged to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e291	I would like to live in Cardamom City, where everyone was kind and good and did what they were supposed to do, and otherwise they could do what they wanted, but that's not the way the world is. Several have said that sanctions are possible. It might, but the reality is they're not used. In the case of false reports, we have the penal code, but reports that are drawn before they come to court are not affected by the criminal law. But it has aroused the hamlet, and the talk goes. Many municipalities in Norway are small and transparent, and we know what such a false review can result in. I am a little surprised when the Christian People's Party asks questions about the experiences, and you wonder a little about where you have those experiences. But it's actually like this -- the Christian People's Party can also figure out -- that false reports occur. I am sure that the representatives of the Christian People's Party will also receive the same requests as the others that one party in a child distribution case has been falsely charged with abuse. It's true, as the Christian People's Party says, you can't make rules for everything. I fully agree with what has also been said, that adults must begin to act like adults. Nevertheless, dust from sanctioning facilities should probably be brushed. There are a lot of children – we heard the Knudsen representative say a place between 20,000 and 30,000 – living in conflict-filled families, that is. families where mother and father no longer live together, but where the level of conflict is very high. It's between 20,000 and 30,000 children too much. Therefore, it is important that we signal from this pulpit, from the Stortinget and from the Government that we cannot tolerate adult people not putting their child in focus and not seeing the best of the child. We don't want to accept that. I hear that we all agree on the intentions, that we want adults to act as adults and take responsibility. With so much political will expressed from this pulpit, I hope that we will also have something done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e302	I agree with the latter – there is absolutely no lack of will from this pulpit, nor from the ministry. It's an important focus we have on this matter. I would like to comment on some of the comments. The problem was that it is important, if necessary, to find new instruments. He talks about discretion in relation to social security offices, free legal proceedings, and possibly other criminal reactions. The Elling was also concerned with what we could do. I would like to say in this regard that the compulsory mediation we have, and it will be very important. The most important thing about the compulsory mediation is to reach an agreement on the children, both where they live and where they live. I'm not going to pre-shoot any solutions, but at least we have a mediation arrangement, all of them meeting there. If there's something you can do there, my question is. What has been done in other countries? We know that in other countries they have slightly different arrangements for association and association agreements. So when we evaluate now, we also get to be creative from the department if it turns out to be necessary to change some of these arrangements, and then we get back with suggestions when this work is done. Then I have a little comment for the representative, Hansen, who believes that there may have been a higher level of conflict after the introduction of the new rules on contributions. She suggests that more cases end up in court, perhaps also suggesting that more people disagree. I can't answer that today, it's actually too early. Those rules were introduced on 1 October last year. But what I can say is, at least one of the intentions of the Stortinget has been fully fulfilled, and that's that we've got thousands of new private agreements, that's that the parents actually agree. It's very important. There has been a good debate. I'll end up with a little, good example from a little boy. We've started a violent project. Children are happy with their parents. They're happy with their parents no matter what kind of parents they've been given, to say it like that, and parents can be good and bad in different contexts. This boy had been exposed to violence, that is. He had seen his mother be subjected to violence, and what was most difficult for this boy – he went into a group in ATV – was to see that his parents did not cooperate about him: "They will not talk to each other anymore, not even about me." Then this boy managed to communicate to the psychologists and the sociologists on ATV how important it was to him that his parents talked about him. These adults contacted both parents and were able to communicate to them how important it was to this boy. And when I asked him, "What's the most important thing you've experienced in this half year you've been talking to Alternatives to Violence in the conversation group?" he said, "It's that they made my parents understand how important it is that they cooperate about me. Now they're doing it, now they're talking about me."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e313	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e319	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-25.ana.ud2044e337	There is no voting theme in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
