ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e34	The representatives Bent Höie and Jorunn Ringstad, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representatives Trine Skei Grande and Olaf Gedrem have applied for leave from 4 May to 6 May, both to attend a Wilton Park conference in Alexandria, Egypt. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Silver Siversten, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under Olaf Gedrem's leave, for welfare reasons. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Oslo: Ola Elvestuen For Rogaland County: Kari Austerheim Silde
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e72	The representative of Heidi Sørensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e75	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Inga Marte Thorkildsen, Siri Hall Arnøy and myself, present a Document No. Eight proposals on equality in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e80	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e94	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e101	Document No The 8 proposal from the Progress Party to end the AutoPASS experiment on some selected ferry routes will be rejected today. The testing scheme should be implemented, following the opinion of the majority, even if it has resulted in increased tariffs for motorists and commercial transport. The aim of the experiment is to reduce the number of tariff groups and automatic payment for passing both through toll stations and on ferry routes, i.e. a co-ordinated payment where the aggregate bill comes after. The payment is made through AutoPASS chip and without cash. In this attempt, passengers will not pay. As a result, the tariffs have increased slightly, and one might ask that commercial traffic and commuters be spared to the greatest extent possible. It may meet with discount schemes for large consumers and businesses. I also find reason to believe that both the municipalities, the county councils and the Norwegian Lastebileier-Verbund have approved the pilot projects that are currently under way. So you're going to get this Document No. 8:22 proposal up, in the middle of a trial period. It seems strange that all the parties have said yes. When the Labour Party is in the plurality, it is just to try out, to see if it can lead to reduced administrative costs and simplification for users. During the spring of 2005, the Stortinget will be briefed on the impact of the various groups of road users. First, after the evaluation of the experiment, we will have the basis to see if this can provide road users with a better and cheaper ferry service. The plurality of the Committee therefore rejects this proposal to terminate the current passport attempt in ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e118	The right-hand side supports the Government’s proposal and the rapporteur’s presentation in this case, which relates to the AutoPASS pilot project on ferries. We want to continue the trial period out, and with this we want to reject the proposals of the Progress Party. The purpose of the experiment is to obtain a single payment system at toll stations and ferries, which will lead to simplification and time savings for users. The experiment has now come a long way, and the selection of sections for the test project has been done in a gentle manner, in dialogue with the parties concerned. The pilot project should not be completed until we have sufficient experience to evaluate the proposed tariff system. It is important to implement the project in order to see the positive and negative experiences of the experiment. The result will be carefully evaluated, including the impact on the various groups of road users, before a new tariff regime is introduced on a national basis. We will get this matter to the Stortinget as a briefing matter and, if necessary, be presented with a proposal for a new national regulation and improvements in the discount scheme for individual groups, during the spring of 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e127	The Progress Party welcomes the efforts to create a uniform payment system for toll stations and ferries, which will, of course, lead to simplifications and time savings for business. However, this should not lead to increased costs for the drivers or for the business community. Nor do we think it is right that drivers and businesses should pay extra to finance free travel for passengers travelling without a vehicle. In the event of a free carriage of passengers, any arrangements must be made for the provision of additional appropriations to the ferry companies over the State budget or for increased savings from the provision of the sections for tenders. I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party, which reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to close the ‘AutoPASS’ trial on ferries, which leads to increased costs for private cars and business as a result of the free travel of travellers without a car.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e137	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e140	Let me just briefly say that SV also supports the majority conclusion in this case. But let me stress that we have been very positive that it will be free for passengers to travel. There have been positive consequences in many places, because several have put their car back on ferjekaia and used public transport further. Nevertheless, we see that it has had an adverse effect, because the load has been applied on vehicles, so that the transport of food has been harmful in many places. Let me also say that there has been great local resistance to this system in many places. However, SV supports the implementation of the experiment, so that we can learn from the experience gained.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e149	I am pleased that a majority in the Committee chooses to reject the proposals of the Progress Party to end the AutoPASS trials on ferries. It is a broad majority that is positive to the work of creating a common payment system for toll stations and ferries, which will lead to a simpler life for the users of ferries. The Christian People's Party believes that it is fundamentally positive that a common payment system is established for toll stations and ferries. There are major advantages of coordinated ticketing, not least in transport for business. Because such a system requires a ferry tariff regime with fewer tariff categories, when transferring the passenger payment to the vehicles, this would lead to an increase in vehicle tariffs. This is, of course, the controversial aspect of the AutoPASS tests. However, it is important to bear in mind, as indicated in the letters of the Council of State to the Committee, that changes do not result in an increase in costs on average for the transport of nutrients. The aim of the experiment is simplification and lower administrative costs, which could mean a better ferry service for the money, including for business and motorists. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it would be very unwise to close the AutoPASS trials before gaining experience in the trials and obtaining a proper basis for future decision-making. Both positive and negative experience must be used in further work on a common tariff system. However, the majority emphasise that in the event of major business problems arising from certain ferry services, discount schemes should be able to be assessed as a matter of course, even before the final revision of the ferry tariff regime. The AutoPASS tests are controversial in some of the communities concerned. However, it is important to remember that the selection of links to the trial project has been done in a gentle manner, in dialogue with the parties concerned. Therefore, it would be very unfortunate if the trial project had been completed before the experience was gained to evaluate the proposed tariff system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e160	For the Central Party, it is very important to reduce road users’ costs in the case of ferry transport. We believe the ferries are part of the road, and therefore there should be no extra cost of taking a ferry. Today, there is an extra cost for both industry and local people to live in holiday districts. It should be a goal that the ferries should be free of charge in the long term. The centre party is therefore willing to discuss different ways of reducing ferry costs. The test with AutoPASS can lead to simplification and saved time for road users. If this also affects the cost of ferry operations, and this reduced cost benefits road users, we welcome such attempts. In the specific experiment with AutoPASS, the main element of the simplification is that the passenger payment is to be covered by increasing the vehicle tariffs. Of course, I also see that this leads to a simplification, by getting fewer tariff groups. However, when some groups of road users incur additional costs, it is wrong to conclude now that the experiment has led to reduced tariffs. The test is based on the same total ticket receipts. This means that in such a zero sum game, some people have to pay more when others don't pay. In this attempt, therefore, business and the permanent, especially commuters who depend on a car, have increased costs. There have also been strong reactions in several districts where ferry routes have been involved in the experiment. The strong reactions are understandable when, for example: transport costs of an already under-pressed business life are increasing. We must avoid that some groups of road users have to bear the cost of simplifying the tariff system and thus lower administrative costs. As I'm starting my post with, the Senter Party is busy reducing the traffickers' ferry costs. We're willing to try out different ways to do this. That's why we want to continue the trial with AutoPASS. We think it's unfortunate to end up in the middle of a set-up experiment. But it must be a condition that those districts that have strong objections to the experiment will not be forced to participate. In addition, some groups of road users must avoid additional costs, partly additional costs, which may have negative consequences for business and bus services. I have mentioned these points in earlier debates, and I hope that the Council of State will take such a signal seriously, when they have been expressed as strongly as they have from several districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e173	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2588]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e193	Nils Kjær, the well-known Norwegian author and critic, who lived from 1870 to 1924, should have said once: ‘I am honest in everything, except in financial matters. I can't afford that." That a writer and critic at that time could have put money to work, and so it was advisable to trick a few extra dollars, one might understand. Unfortunately, today’s theme is much more serious and comprehensive. Those who are behind economic scandals, as we have seen a lot of examples in recent times, rarely have bad advice and are often very professional in their methods. The extent of this phenomenon and whether it is increasing or not, it is not easy to get a clear and unambiguous picture of it, but according to the Statistical Central Bureau and the Institute of Crime at the University of Oslo, the number of people reporting economic crime has increased in recent years. The background can be both a greater focus on economic scandals and, in fact, more attempts at economic crime. The focus on economic scandals and crime has at least increased over the last two or three years. One of the most important reasons for this is the Enron scandal in the United States. The main ingredient here was the deliberate manipulation of accounting information to mislead the market. In the wake of this scandal, several large companies both in the United States and in Europe have been exposed to similar conditions. Those who are left and have to pay the bill are investors, small savers and those who lose their work in the cold water of the scandals. The 2001 credit report points to the fact that economic scandals of the kind we saw in the United States are less likely to occur in this country. It was also shown that our code is designed in a different way, and that the industrial structure in Norway is different. However, it is naive to believe that not even companies in Norway are trying to manipulate accounting and the like. Unfortunately, practice also shows that this is the case. This means that we need a continuous focus on – and work on – these kinds of things. There is a need for effort on several fronts here. The probability of discovery and conviction must be increased by increasing the competence of investigators and judicial authorities. Often this is about issues that are difficult to discover and hard to prove. This is, however, a more judicial focus. Many focus on changes in laws and regulations to close down and streamline practices. It's necessary. Societies are constantly evolving. There is thus every reason for the necessary adjustment and updating of current legislation. But how can large recognized companies possibly over several years drive as extensive numbers as what is now happening? This has been contrary to the law and regulation and the failure of both internal control and supervision by a serious audit firm. The auditor has a very special and important function. The auditor shall ensure that the annual accounts comply with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions. It is the auditor who is the guarantor that the accountancy is as he should be. Both shareholders, creditors, the financial market and the board of directors base their actions on the fact that the auditor has reviewed and found that the accounting is within the scope of law and regulation. Therefore, it is entirely decisive that the auditor is independent and objective in relation to his work. One of the issues that has emerged in recent economic scandals is that it has been too close to company audit. That's how it's developed a culture. Those who were supposed to be objective advisers and controllers were too engaged in internal life. In that way they were blind and became part of the culture of the businesses they worked for. In the wake of Enron-saka, the leading and reputable audit firm Arthur Andersen falls. The company couldn't be a counterweight to the Trixe culture that developed in Enron. A larger audit firm often also provides consultancy services. The distinction between the auditor's role as an objective and independent auditor on the one hand and as a committed tax advisor on the other has created role and objectives conflicts in many audit firms. Although there are different people who carry out the tasks – formally there may also be different companies under the same umbrella that are responsible for auditing and consulting – it is nevertheless very difficult to be neutral and objective when working under the same roof and thus have close working relationships. In our country too, we have unfortunately seen examples of this. It may also be useful to set eyes on the lawyer's stand. The question is, is it entirely unproblematic that lawyers invest in the company, or are members of the board, in the company they work for? My claim is that this can lead to too close ties between the customer and the consultant, and it can erase the important distinction that should provide a basis for integrity and impartiality. That several of the major Norwegian law firms just before Christmas would not publish what they had of ethical guidelines – or if they had them – in this area, is not exactly reliable. Trust is a key intervention in what I'm dealing with in this interview. I have named some professional groups that depend entirely on confidence in, in a good way, selling their services. I would therefore believe that these have a certain self-interest in the fact that it is being cleaned up here. In order to achieve this, it is not enough with a good law and regulation. Practice shows that where one has had a code, it has been too easy to go beyond this code. Where the code is missing, it has been unable to make good judgements on its own. So at the end of the day, it's about ethics and morality, and it's about seeing the "si" enterprise as part of society. It's time for ethical reflection, and it's time for the establishment, strengthening and fine-tuning of own ethical guidelines. We need clear and clear legislation, but no matter how good and comprehensive this is, a situation that is not directly covered will occur. Rules can always be changed and bent. Then it can happen that ownership interests go ahead of the shareholder and society's interests. Therefore, some principles are needed as a basis and as a basis for assessment, and there is a need for training to make ethical assessments and to take the consequences. «Spagmargsetik», Judge-Advisor Kari E. Breirem wrote in Today's Business 9 January this year. A conscious work on business ethics should aim at back marrow ethics — an ethical attitude that is so strong that it is the ethical and moral considerations that are given decisive weight when the legislation is not clear enough. Then ethical guidelines become more than paper and theory. This is about building a culture, and it is closely linked to professional pride and integrity. Business life must be more than fine words, high intentions, and good wishes. Ethical reflection and high ethical consciousness is an arresting matter. This is why it is important that this is an essential element of education — not just as dry teaching, but through living illustrations and discussions. However, the self-lacmus test will first meet with the everyday life and the specific cases. For this reason, it is important that industry associations are involved in stimulating debate and development, so that professional ethics becomes an important element of the profession. Another important measure, which has been discussed internationally, and which is also addressed by the Norwegian Auditor’s Association, may be the introduction of own audit committees into all listed companies. Here it will be possible to discuss different relationships in the light of ethical and moral issues. This, together with a set of ethical guidelines, known as Code of Ethics, will further strengthen the ethical reflection so that it can lead to concrete decisions. This is demanding, but I'm still a bit optimistic. An ever up-to-date legislative and regulatory framework and a constructive interaction with the industries concerned can result in more than a wave of speech, and indeed a concrete wave of action that can prevent economic scandals in the future. Nils Kjær may say a lot, but at least he was honest about his dishonesty. We, as politicians, and the industry itself, must be courageous enough to take the challenge that lies ahead, and to carry out a joint effort in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e233	Let me begin by thanking the interpellant for the opportunity to shed light on this important topic. Lack of and misleading information has been a serious and alarming feature of recent financial scandals. Experience has also shown that established control mechanisms have not been sufficient to avert or mitigate adverse effects. This, combined with some business morals, has helped to make financial scandals possible. The Ministry of Finance referred to the lessons learned from the US financial scandals in the 2001 Credit Notice. In the Communication, we expressed that the financial scandals in the United States have led to a clear common understanding of the need for frameworks to ensure, as far as possible, good and deterrent accounting information. Clear standards, good control mechanisms and strict responses are needed in cases where accounting is manipulated. We stressed that the Government is determined to contribute to this, in particular by making the best possible provision for unethical practices not to evolve as we have seen in the United States. We focused on European and international coordination of actions. The majority of the financial committee at that time stated in the recommendation that it is important that the confidence we want to build up is also passed abroad. The majority therefore considered that the measures implemented in Norway need to be as harmonised as possible with those carried out in other countries. At the same time, the majority underlined the importance of continuous work on measures to combat economic crime. The Ministry of Finance is following up a number of measures to improve confidence in the securities markets and financial reporting. The status of major actions in the field of the Ministry of Finance is as follows: On 16 March 2004, the European Commission presented a new and modernised Eighth Company Law Directive on statutory audits. The Directive strengthens the requirements for auditors, inter alia: as regards education, independence and ethics, and quality assurance of the auditor's work. The Ministry of Finance has continuously followed the work of the Directive, mainly through participation in the EU Audit Committee. We will consider changes to the statutory auditor's law and promote any legislative proposals once the new directive has been adopted. The Ministry has recently been consulted on a proposal to establish a legal framework to provide detailed rules on the implementation of the rules of the statutory act on auditor’s access to the provision of advisory services and other services to audit clients. Provision is made for legislative proposals so that regulations can be laid down during the year. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance, following the intervention of Økokrim, asked the Credit Authority to consider a proposal that the statutory auditor should be obliged to inform the police if there are any grounds for suspecting that a criminal offence has been committed in the course of audit or other services. Today the accountant has access, but not a duty, to inform the police of such matters. The credit supervision has been asked to draw up a consultation note on this which may be sent to the hearing during the spring. A proposal for the implementation of the Market Abuse Directive on insider dealing and market manipulation has been consulted, with consultation deadline next week, 3 May. That Directive has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The main objective of the Directive is to ensure the integrity of securities markets in the EEA territory, including investor confidence in those markets. The Ministry proposes to promote legislative proposals for the implementation of the Market Abuse Directive this summer. The new prospectus directive lays down provisions for the publication of prospectuses in the case of public offers of transferable securities and for admission to trading. This Directive shall be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. This Directive replaces the existing EEA rules implemented by the Securities Trading Act and the Stock Exchange Act with regulations. This Directive includes, inter alia: the offers to be included in the obligation to draw up prospectuses, the information to be provided in the prospectuses and questions relating to the control of prospectuses. The Directive and the Norwegian rules would require issuers and any other offerors to provide a number of information relevant to the investor’s decision and to provide evidence of the information provided. At the initiative of the Ministry of Finance, credit supervision has set up a wide-ranging working group to assess the need for and propose amendments to Norwegian law resulting from the Directive and its additional provisions. The working group shall give its opinion in June. The EU Regulation on the Application of International Accounting Standards requires listed entities to apply the International Accounting Standards IFRS in the consolidated financial statements of 2005. Member States may permit or require application in the annual accounts and in other consolidated accounts. That Regulation has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. In its evaluation of the Accounting Act, the Accounting Law Committee has proposed legal provisions for the implementation of the Regulation. The Ministry of Finance proposes to make legislative proposals in June in this respect and to establish a enforcement mechanism for the financial reporting of listed undertakings. The Ministry considers that this will contribute to good and comparable financial reporting. The European Parliament is currently examining a proposal for a directive on the obligation to provide information to the market by listed companies – the rolling reporting directive. The aim of the proposal is primarily to improve investor security, to improve the efficiency, transparency and integrity of European capital markets and to attract investors to the European securities market. These include: provided for a strengthening of the minimum requirements for the accounting information to be provided by issuers to the market during the financial year. Furthermore, certain minimum disclosure requirements for changes in the ownership of the issuer company have been proposed. If the proposal for a directive is adopted, amendments to the rules on ongoing reporting for issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on the exchange or regulated market place will be necessary. Furthermore, amendments to the flag obligation rules need to be considered. A new Directive on investment services and regulated markets is expected to be adopted by the EU during April. In this case, there will be new requirements for the activities of the brokerage undertakings, including new rules designed to prevent conflicts of interest between the various activities of the brokerage undertakings. The Directive will also introduce new rules on the activities of stock exchanges and other market places, which could create greater transparency and transparency in exchange transactions. The Ministry will present legislative proposals to implement the Directive in Norwegian law. I would also like to mention that we have recently established the Financial Market Fund, which, in accordance with its Statutes, is intended to contribute to increased knowledge and understanding of the functioning of financial markets, including market regulation and market actors, and to promote understanding and awareness of financial market ethics. The fund, which is probably 200 million. SEK, shall be distributed twice a year with funds from the fund’s return – approximately 10 million. kr per. year — for research, education and general information in the financial market area. We already have a good legal basis to prevent economic scandals and economic crime. At the same time, it is necessary to take into account that the framework should minimise the desire for economic activity. Therefore, the framework alone will not be able to guarantee against all abuse. The economic scandals that have been discovered both in other countries and here at home weaken the confidence that is necessary for the efficient functioning of capital markets and our economic system and to contribute to prosperity. In such a situation, strict measures have been necessary to restore confidence. We are constantly working to develop and improve the regulatory framework. We emphasise that the measures are harmonised with those carried out in other countries, otherwise in line with the previous decision of the Storting in relation to the credit notification. It is in everyone's interest to prevent abuse and unethical behaviour that weakens the confidence of our entire economic system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e272	I thank the Minister of Finance for the answer. This shows that the Government is taking this theme seriously. The most important thing for the board of directors is just to set things straight, so that auditors and others can do their work in a good way. Here, of course, is a clear, good piece of legislation. I am particularly pleased that the Council of State wants clearer regulations when it relates to the auditor’s ability to provide an audit client advisory service, and that there are new requirements in relation to the operations of brokerage offices. The Minister of Finance also stresses the need for action in this area to be adapted to what is happening in other countries. This is an important point, because today's capital flows largely cross borders, and many companies are established in several countries. Thus, it is important that the design of Norwegian rules and guidelines does not just take place in a national perspective. When, at the end of his speech, the Minister of Finance insists that the framework should not limit economic activity, he is at a central point, because rules and regulations can become a heavy bureaucracy, which has been counterproductive. This is why the debate on what is going on to improve the ethical standard, and by increasing trust in, among other things. auditors and business lawyers, so important. It is important here that the industry itself is aware of its responsibilities and has a good dialogue with the government to find future solutions. But it is also important that politicians have clear views. I therefore look forward to a constructive and good debate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e279	In addition to what I said in my main post, I want to say a few words about education. It is important, as the interpellant pointed out, that the legislation itself is not sufficient. It must also be a prerequisite that the industry itself is trained to think ethically according to policies that have been drawn up, but this must be in the spinal cord and not just in the legislation. Therefore, it is important for me to inform them that the statutory training of auditors has mandatory issues related to ethics both in basic education, in the higher degree course of an auditor and now in the course of further training. As late as January of this year, we have been consulted by the Ministry on a proposal for amendments to the statutory auditor's regulation that the mandatory requirement for continuing training should be changed to include a minimum of 14 hours of ethical principles governing the auditor's profession. It will then be new from this year onwards, as a complement to the ethics training provided in basic education and in the higher statutory school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e286	Let me first commend the representative Sørfonn, who addresses a very important topic. I think working against economic crime is best done by great publicity around this. This has helped the representative by bringing this discussion into the Stortninget today. I'll link a couple of comments to a couple of themes. This is the case with amendments to the regulations of the statutory auditor's law, which I believe are important. But I think it's also important here to make sure that it doesn't happen that the great undergrowth of Norwegian small businesses, which is hardly at the centre of economic crime, suffers from a border climb that makes them perhaps having trouble organizing their everyday lives in relation to obtaining the necessary financial advice, not least in a way that will be cost-optimal. I think it's an important point. So the Council of State in its reply says that the framework alone cannot prevent abuse, and that is correct. This is not what you often hear from the political left, that you can adopt yourself out of these problems. It is at least difficult to adopt itself out of problems of morality and ethics, and I am glad that the interpellant also joined it. Then I would like to point out a moment that has not been affected in the debate so far, and that is the role of the tax system in relation to economic abuse and unethical behaviour. I think it's important to have a tax system that is perceived as fair by contributors for what they're going to give to the community, perhaps especially in business. That is why the new proposal for tax reform is also interesting in this context. The proposals themselves are hardly preventing abuse, and will hardly automatically result in higher ethics or morale, but in the long run it is perfectly obvious that a fair system that contributes to greater legitimacy, better understanding and better tax morality will be important. For example, we have the proposal for a new share tax model. Taking away the distinction between taxes on labour and taxes on capital income will be important to increase the understanding that you have a fair system and that you have a tax system that you can trust. I believe that the impact of our economic morality in the long term as a result of this must certainly not be underestimated. The same applies to simplifications of the tax system, which are also included in the tax return. Complicated legislation is undoubtedly a cause of control problems and, consequently, of abuse. If capacity can be freed by simplification, the authorities can follow up on matters in a much better way. The tax communication is therefore also a good contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e299	I want to join very much of what the Minister of Finance said, because I think he points to many of the material parts of the legislation that need to be strengthened. At the same time, I agree with the warnings just received from the fleet representative. We cannot face a situation where we create a law or regulation that becomes so comprehensive and so complicated that it can in itself lead to involuntary crimes, simply because in Norway in particular, with so many SMEs, it can easily go wrong, even if you don't have that intention. I am also of the opinion that in itself all the world's legislation in some of these areas will not necessarily prevent some from trying. Those who notoriously have ambitions to find dirt holes or to be crooked to make money, they'll always be there. We have seen examples of nations with very strict legislation in some of these areas still being the ones that may have been hit hardest by major scandals. I am thinking in particular of the United States, which has been known for having a rather strict law in this area. Now, over the last few years, we have also developed legislation in Norway in some of these areas. We have been dealing with role-mixing issues, conflicts of stability and a number of other factors, which have contributed to the improvement of Norwegian legislation over time. But there was one thing the Minister of Finance didn't mention, and I want to put the search light on, and that's the control and reaction dimension. We have just dealt with a whitewashing law, which entered into force on 1 January. It gives Ecocrim significant challenges. It also wants the Storting to have Ecocrim, simply because we believe it is necessary to put the spotlight on economic crime. But then Ecocrim must also be financially able to use resources on this type of investigation, which can be very complex and extensive. I don't see it as the Storting has taken that challenge seriously, rather the Government. I think we have to realize that we're going to have successful control and verification, we also have to have organs that are capable of doing that job in a good way. Ethics and morality are of course essential. There's nothing we can decide, there's something that has to go into the social debate and constantly be involved in influencing our behavior. I think most of us have good ethics and morality. I think most of us don't have ambitions to cheat the state of tax revenue, nor to circumvent the law in a fancy way. But unfortunately, there will always be people among us who do. That's why I think we should be careful about going too far, making for complicated laws, and rather enable the bodies to do the job, to run effective investigation and intelligence before these kind of scandals become a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e318	Like all the other speakers here, I'll also give the interpellant honor to have taken up the theme. It is an important debate we have. At the same time, I think it's a little funny that we have it now. In many cases, this is a reprisal of a debate that we had six months ago, when we discussed Document No. 8:129, which was presented last year, with a variety of concrete measures and proposals in relation to the prevention of financial scandals and economic crime. The difference today with that time is that we had concrete suggestions on the table for treatment, today we do not. I think the Minister of Finance's intervention to a large extent was also a reprisal of what was said at the time. The size chose not to go in for any of the proposals that were then on the table. I think that the attitude of the Minister of Finance and the Government towards these issues is far too offensive and too much of a wait and see attitude, where we will see what the EU and the rest of the world come up with by directives, before we go in and make changes to our own legislation. Ethical reflection on these questions is certainly well and good. But I think it's important that we assume that there's something more than bad morals we're facing. The threshold for tricking and economic crime is lowered in a less regulated and more competitive economy. This must be met with political control and action. I want to mention three such actions that were presented in the private proposal that SV promoted last year, which Stortinget chose to vote down, but which we hope there will be an opportunity to come back to. One was the prohibition on external auditors in large companies providing financial or legal advice to the same company. Unfortunately, we have seen a number of examples, both in companies like Statkraft and in the health company Health West, of using the same audit company for these very different tasks. This is something that needs to be tightened up, which is completely possible in relation to the large companies. The second thing we proposed was that analysts in the brokerage companies should not be commissioned by companies they are analysing. Regrettably, it is the same companies that are largely in charge of stock market introductions and issues and that also dominate the secondary market. It has been shown that the fire barriers between these different functions are not good enough and that these functions should be distinguished. The third important proposal we put forward was that we wanted to reverse the burden of proof in cases of serious financial crime, so that, in case of suspicion of illegality, there should be a burden of proof on those who themselves hold high values, to prove that these are legitimately earned. It's important that we're not naive. There is no reason to believe that Norwegian business is more virgin than business in other countries, and it is the responsibility of the policy that the market is not running smoothly. In the end, I want to join Siv Jensen's concerns in relation to the Whitewashing Act. I think it is an important signal to give to the Government that once we have adopted such a comprehensive regulation, we must ensure that the resource situation is such that it can be fulfilled in a reliable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e341	The centre party is pleased that its own measures to prevent financial crime are put on the agenda. What is being signaled today by both the Christian People's Party and the Right is quite different from what was shown when, a few years ago, the Stortinge dealt with proposals for extensive liberalisation of e.g. the securities trade, at the time provided by a workers' party government and supported by a solid majority in the Stortinget. It was only SV, the Center Party and RV that reacted. An expression that was present, and which was important to stroke during that time, was that there were ethical guidelines within the industry, and it lasted a long time in terms of tightening up. So this is the area where there are great opportunities for fast services in a short time. Later, experience has been purchased, both in our own country and in other countries – but it is not really necessary to go to the United States to show extensive scandals, it is precisely in these days that the media have examples of it. It is all the more gratifying that the Minister of Finance today clearly underlined the need for clear standards, good control mechanisms and clear responses. I want to challenge the Minister of Finance on two points. Does he mean that it's also important to have an involvement in the small and the close? I'm thinking about the treasure chest, the system of equations, the customs department and the police. Does he want to take action to give them greater opportunity than today to intervene? There have been changes and cuts, the number of additions has been reduced, the tasks have become more extensive and complicated at the same time, and competences have disappeared. There is good evidence that every additional year's work in these check rates gives millions of revenue to the country. The second point relates to the stock market. A short time ago, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party were united to propose own share supervision, in particular in order to preserve the small shareholders. Will the Minister for Finance, as a strengthening of the supervisory and supervisory function, reconsider his position in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e356	This interpellance is a good contribution to raising public awareness of an increasing problem. This problem may have been the same for a long time, but it is only in the last year that the public has become aware of its extent. It is not just the big scandals from abroad that make us more aware of it; there have also been scandals in our own country regarding major economic crime – the Finance Credit case may be an example – partly because we have not been aware of it enough. It is quite right, as others here say, that it is an individual responsibility to follow laws and regulations, and that this responsibility cannot be taken from anyone, either society or law. But the most profoundly, it's not what this is all about. It is a saying that ‘an apartment does a thief’. That means that society's task is to make sure you don't actually become a thief. It is therefore necessary to have legislation and regulations that are so strong that the danger of being taken and judged is so imminent that you do not choose to break it. What we have seen is that legislation in many countries has not been good enough. If you follow what the Minister of Finance said in his statement, in relation to what he said a year ago, or for that matter two years ago, you will see that there has been a rough adult training curve for the Minister of Finance, as there have been too many of us, because we have not been sufficiently aware of the extent of economic crime in fact. That means we have to move on. That means that we need to strengthen those bodies that actually review laws and regulations. It also means that we have to take a positive look at having a revision of the law, which is quite obvious, and which SV has called for repeatedly. The light board was also inside it in its article. Ecocrime may be the most important instance in Norway to ensure that laws and regulations are verified. Ecocrim has a lot of big things. Investigating economic crime is one of the most economically demanding things you do. It takes a lot of financial resources and a lot of years, and it takes a long time. It's demanding processes. Many of the basements you're facing are professional and very capable of hiding tracks, manipulating evidence and getting away from what's obvious crime. This means that, as a follow-up to the Racism Act, but also as a general fulfillment of the increased focus of society on economic crime, Ecocrim should be among those who are better placed in the budgets to be adopted by the Storting in the future. It is necessary to prevent economic crime and to provide examples of how to avoid getting away easily. The same applies also on a slightly smaller scale to the tax base. The tax rate is good. It does a lot of things that make it easier to handle the ordinary man and woman's tax bill. But at the same time, there is also a greater opportunity, even for ordinary people, to escape their obligations. From the point of view of society, increasing focus on these two levels will bring good benefits and will also be an example of how ordinary citizens, in fact, all, will contribute to building this society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e370	I am very pleased with this debate. We have seen the focus on various measures to prevent economic scandals in the future, and public attention is perhaps the most important means of transport to drive us forward, because economic scandals have only losers. Investors lose, small savers lose, those who lose their job, lose, professional environments lose — all lose. A good result is, as it has been pointed out here, depending on the constructive interaction between governance, the professional environment and educational institutions. Governments are primarily responsible for legislative, criminal, action, etc. The professional community should, and has, a responsibility – both for its own integrity and for its own interests, they live by trust – to build trust and be neat in it. Education institutions may introduce leadership to bring in the ethical thinking, the ethical reflexes of spinal cords, as part of the necessary commitment. In addition to having a clear legal and regulatory framework that is also clear about how this should be reacted to, it is a goal to incorporate this ethical spinal cord reflex. That doesn't mean we're talking about a business that's just characterized by a lack of ethics and morality. No, most actors are busy being tidy and law-abiding, etc. But there's still a clear need here. My wish is that we get this ethical spinal cord reflex, so that the actors literally know it in the lumbar spine when the boundaries are crossed. This is what we're all going to do. It's not about negative moralism, no, it's about a virtue of necessity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e386	I will try to answer a few of the questions that have been asked. The representative Lightbakken said that my post was a reprisal of what had been said half a year ago. It was not, because I mentioned proposals from international organisations, from the EU, drafts of hearings from the ministry and announced legislative proposals, all of which were impossible to mention six months ago, because they are fresher than they saw. If you just followed in the post, the dates themselves would emphasize that this post could not have been kept half a year ago. As I see it, I am pleased that, through the EEA Agreement, we have the opportunity to participate in the EU's work on developing standards, for the EU has become better, faster and more stringent in this area. I think we should recognize that only on the basis of international experience and, in part, scandals. Norway is in the forefront of implementing these Directives. One thing is to adopt it in a Parliament, the European Parliament, for example, or to get a proposal from the Council of Ministers, but another is to implement it in its own legislation through legislation or regulations. Here is Norway in the forefront. I agree with those who say that we must have a law that is practical both for the small enterprise and for the large enterprise. That is why we have a system for dealing with such matters that is not to adopt legislative proposals, Document No. 8-proposals, over the table, and then a complaint that they were adopted over the table, but actually having something so rash – excuse the expression, but it was meant a little in quotation marks – as sending things to the hearing. We will then just take into account the objections of Ecocrim, the objections of the Credit Authority, the objections of companies and the objections of others, and get a piece of legislation that is adapted and practical and is understandable to the actors – small and large. I think that's pretty important. I will not go into the debate on the allocation of resources, but just point to two important issues: Ecocrime is among the police agencies that have had the strongest increase in their appropriations in recent years. And if you look at the Storting's allocation of resources to the police, it has been among those businesses in the state sphere that have had the most significant increase in their job frameworks and budgets over several years – then I go back further than this big period as well. It has been implemented and changes are still being made in both the tax rate and the equation rate for two things: first, that the floors can become more outgoing and service-oriented, i.e. guided to avoid errors, and secondly, to use more resources on control where the problems are greatest. It has happened both through the reorganization of the agencies, with offices and structures, etc., and through the use of data that makes it easier to obtain more information now and to use more capacity to take the villains, to say the least, where we know that there are opportunities for them to exist. As you can see, these floors have been through a rather powerful conversion, and I think those who want to go into the floors will find that the floors don't look like what they were ten years ago. They operate completely different ways and with more modern methods. And all the favors of those who have worked in the floors and got to this conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e403	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e411	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e418	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to close the ‘AutoPASS’ trial on ferries, which leads to increased costs for private cars and business as a result of the free travel of travellers without a car.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e440	There is no voting theme in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-29.ana.ud459e451	There is no record.
