ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e52	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2893]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e68	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2893]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e88	Rape is a terrible crime. For many, it is well that you experience this kind of crime that is almost being killed. It is therefore with concern that criminal statistics are being reviewed and that the number of reports of rape is increasing as it does — from 1999 to today from 400 to 700 reviews. Now it has to be said that part of this increase is probably due to changes in criminal law and perhaps also increased awareness of these types of cases and the borderline around them, so that immediate increase in the incidence of rape is difficult to read out. The problem is that if you go into these figures and analyse them, you will see that the impact of social treatment on these issues is not very good. Both the feeling of the victim and her — usually a woman — closest relatives are confronted with the drug treatment system and the treatment they receive in the criminal justice system is the mildest reason to dwell on and to the extent of being concerned about. With the number of reported rapes we now have in Norway, we would be able to say brutally that for every day that goes, there are two new reports. For every day that goes, two reported rapes are experienced. For example, in Norway in 2001 635 reports of rape were received in one form or another, most of them as qualified offenders. We feel that 455 of them are being investigated. Only 72 perpetrators are targeted. And then finally, when you stand at the end of the criminal justice chain, we experience that 41 of those targeted, and then the defendant, actually also get a criminal reaction. There will never be any goal for the percentage of convictions in rape cases to be up to 100 pst. That wouldn't solve the problem for anyone. But it's a problem for us that the sentence rate is so low, for example. for the year 2001, it has moved all the way down to 6 pst. Of course, this is caused by the fact that the cases are difficult, that the claim is opposed to the claim. The investigation in these kinds of cases is difficult, but it is also in many other criminal cases where we operate with a much higher rate of detection and conviction. I am in the context of this inter-pelling debate and the question of what we are doing with such a situation and with such a result, tempted to ask: Would these figures look different, whether or not one considers it in a gender perspective, whether or not they were mainly men? I'm tempted to say yes, even on the basis of comparable and to the extent of other types of crime, where men are actually victims, and where the focus and effort seems to be much stronger. That is why the criminal justice chain has become a very small place to deal with these types of conflicts. First of all, it takes a long time. In the case of sexual offences in Norway, as far as I know, it takes more than 200 days from notification to prosecution for sexual offences in general. So it takes an additional time in relation to the courtroom, and one should like to go two rounds, two stressful rounds. It is also the case that few cases end up with a conviction, which would form the basis for the punishment of society, whether it be punishment, compensation or upliftment. In other words, it fails both in terms of time and result. And then it's the second part of society's ability to respond, and it's going to operate at a much lower level of evidence than what we're doing in criminal law, that's the treatment system. There it should be, and there it is, fortunately, that not all doubt is brought to good, but there is all the doubt that benefits the offended. You have to deal with what you've been told is something you've been exposed to. Then it's a paradox that the treatment system that we all have a responsibility for, up for a long time, whether it's a crisis centre, a rape facility or a resource centre for rape victims, so to speak, jobs on austerity. I remember the representative No Marte Thorkildsen's heart attack in a similar debate for a time, when she drew out that the offer for those who break their legs or arms seems to be far better and more «mandatory» than the raped, especially women, being subjected to, despite the fact that the damage to both body and mind often appears far more severe. These are the two elements, the criminal chain and the treatment system, which politicians need to focus more on when it comes to making the situation easier for those affected by this, and also when it comes to bringing down the number of rapes reported. These are not two isolated actions, two isolated action chains, but action chains that are actually linked. If we have a poor reception system and a poor treatment system in relation to raped women – yes, that affects the treatment of the criminal justice system. If it persists in the criminal justice system, it is difficult to implement the cases, and it is widely perceived as a burden, among other things. for women to go through the criminal justice system — yes, it also affects the treatment situation. That is why I believe that we, as traditionally working with criminal and judicial policies, must also have a look at how the treatment system is actually in relation to the problem areas affected. My interpellation is a request to all of us to try to raise the focus in relation to this kind of case in court. I believe that the criminal policy and policy on illegal acts have been too much of an isolated debate on, among other things. the level of penalties and penalties, and also to a certain extent on the reduction of evidence requirements, including, where appropriate, traditional guarantees of legal certainty. I see it as a derailment in relation to the problems we are actually facing in these matters. With regard to the criminal framework and the level of penalties, we have seen a good increase in the number of rape cases. A review of the practices of the Supreme Court in recent years, which I have carried out, shows almost a double, so that a little bit has come along. But I think that some of the eagerness to measure out severe punishments in these cases can actually go at the expense of the political focus we need on the actual question of whether there will be any punishment at all, and whether there will be any response at all. That's the focus I think we're going to put in now. I don't think we're going to solve any of the challenges these women face by now taking the lead in more traditional criminal law thinking by starting to lower the evidence requirements in order to get convictions in rape cases. My interpellation shall not be an invitation to it. My interpellation is also no invitation to enlist the guarantees of legal certainty that surround the accused and those involved in criminal justice. I think it's shooting itself in the foot, and actually taking the focus away from what they're insulting, the relatives and those around them, actually eager to get a reaction, to get a reaction that over time also helps, and that actually also helps to get the number of rape reports down. I hope the debate today can be very much about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e107	The fact that today's help offers to victims of rape are not satisfactory in all ways, I agree. Rape is an extreme physical and mental oppression, especially of women. In addition, rape is a very serious crime, which is not only to be given high priority by the police and the judiciary, but also to pay attention to the victim’s need for redress. In 2003, 724 rapes were reported in the country as a whole. Corresponding figures for 2002 were 681. Sexual offences are the only type of crime where we have had an increase in the number of reports in recent years. The increase is likely to be explained by increased focus and thus increased reporting propensity. Nevertheless, there is reason to believe that the dark figures for this type of crime are still very large, and we therefore know little about how many rapes actually occur every year. By amendment in 2000, there was a serious violation of the law. In 2003, 10 notifications were registered for grossly negligent rape, compared with 11 notifications in 2002. STRASAK, police criminal record, shows that 840 rape reports, including attempted rape, were made in 2003. Of these, 176 ended up with so-called positive prosecution decisions, including 158 appeal decisions. Although these figures may be associated with some uncertainty, they are likely to give a general picture of the situation. The reasons for the high deposition rate may be more, but I have no points of view to claim that orders are related to prejudices or negative attitudes in the police. On the contrary, it seems to me that these matters are dealt with in a thorough and conscientious manner. In some cases, the content of the notification already indicates that the situation is not affected by the criminal code. Sometimes the police can't identify and find the perpetrator. However, lack of evidence is what leads to most of the settlements. The evidence situation is particularly problematic in cases where there is a prior relationship between the perpetrator and the victim. The infringement is often committed in the ‘closed room’, without leaving any medical or technical trail that may shed light on whether or not an infringement was committed. In these cases, it is particularly important that insults do not wait to report the matter. Although all available information is followed up with good investigation, one will not rarely find that the central and perhaps only evidence in the case is two conflicting explanations. In criminal matters, guilt must be proved beyond reasonable doubt. This strict requirement of proof makes it difficult in those cases to provide sufficient evidence of criminal liability in the courts. The prosecution authority then has an obligation to resolve the matter. That many of the rape cases are of such a nature that they are dealt with more frequently than any other matter, however, should not be a sleeping cushion. There is a clear potential for improvement at all stages of the case, both in terms of investigation, prosecution and correction. As part of increasing the quality of the investigation and prosecution of rape cases, the Riksadvokat set up a working group in 1999 to investigate the handling of rape cases by the police and the prosecution authority. The group concluded that the investigation was comprehensively satisfactory but submitted several proposals for action. Following on from the report, the Advocate General developed a comprehensive Compendium on the investigation and prosecution of rape cases in 2001. Compendium is distributed to all police districts. I would also like to add that the Riksadvokat has ranked serious sexual crimes among the priority areas of action in the annual letters of intent and priority to the police. The cooperation between the National Advocate-General and the Directorate-General for Police in order to qualify investigators and the Public Prosecutor's Office in these cases will continue. Several measures have also been taken to increase the knowledge and competence of the police and prosecution authorities in this field. A number of officials and service women have completed training and follow-up training on sexual offences, so that most police districts today have specialised personnel that can be used. In larger and more complex cases, it may be appropriate to seek assistance from the specialised unit of the Criminal Police Centre. Another factor is that the length of the proceedings in the rape cases actually carried out is still too long. The requirement for quality results in a relatively wide range of investigations in most cases, with a number of witness interviews, technical studies and the use of forensic expertise. Although it is a matter of time-consuming investigation, it is equally unfortunate that it can take up to seven months from the notification of the relationship until the prosecution decision is available, in particular with regard to the need for clarification of the offended. The Advocate General has announced that he will follow developments closely and that he will take action to reduce the length of proceedings in all cases, not least the priorities, and that this will continue with unimpaired strength and attention. I'm also very concerned about exploiting the possibilities of the DNA certificate. I will, together with the National Attorney and the Police Directorate, take action to ensure that DNA samples are secured by all the convicted people who are going to give such tests. I'm also positive about evaluating changes to the rules on DNA evidence, and I'll shortly set up my own law committee on this. I fully agree with the inter-pellant that society's reaction to rape should be a criminal law response, but also a reaction that relates to the victim in all other aspects of life. I am well aware that the Social and Health Directorate, on behalf of the Ministry of Health, conducts a monitoring of the health offer to those exposed to rape. This investigation, to be completed in June of this year, is aimed at identifying and assessing both the organisation and financing of existing rape facilities in Norway. This mapping will include, inter alia: shall focus on the following: the treatment services established for the raped in each municipality whether or not regular procedures for dealing with rape cases have been established for the availability of follow-up services, both in the case of psychosocial support services and in the case of mental health protection funding, the organisation anchoring the benefits and disadvantages of being organised as its own reception of rapes at a municipal hospital, medical services at a hospital, county hospital or regional hospital; Monitoring will result in an overview of which parts of the country have or do not have receptions of rape and how they are financed. In the light of the results, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health will present proposals for the organisation, funding and content of the assistance offered by the country’s rapists, to which the Ministry of Health will then decide. Proposals for measures will be presented in St.prp. No 1 for the Ministry of Health 2004–2005, but I would also like to add that some measures will be included in the renewed action plan dealing with violence in close relations, which is scheduled to be presented in mid-June. The Dixi centres, which are located in Oslo and Stavanger – and which I have visited in Oslo – are resource centres and a low-threshold offer for rape victims and relatives. In addition, there are discussion groups associated with some crisis centres. The offer includes individual conversations and group discussions, in accordance with the principle of self-help, and is conducted to a large extent by victims of rape. Preventive activities are also carried out in the form of information and lecture activities for health schools, etc. The Dixi Centre in Oslo has received support from the Child and Family Department on the grant scheme for emergency measures. Given the municipal approval of the budget and municipal co-financing, cf. equivalent arrangements for crisis centres and incest centres, municipalities may also receive earmarked funds for the Dixi centres. In order to strengthen their position in the criminal justice process, especially victims of violent and sexual offences, Dr. Juris Anne Robberstad has written an investigation for the Ministry of Justice. This investigation is now being followed up in the Department and a wide-ranging sample will be set up to assess the purely criminal issues raised. In addition, a working group will be set up to assess some practical aspects of the settlement of criminal cases that may contribute to reducing the burden on offended persons. In this context, I will refer to the project that is now under way for victims of crime, and which will, of course, also apply to victims of rape, in the South-Tronde Team. There is a cooperation between the South Trøndelag police districts, the prosecution authority, the court administration and the Trondheim municipality, where the entire operation is already at the police station, but not under the authority of the police, to establish an offer where crime victims can be met in a proper and proper way from the very beginning. It's an important project, and it's about what I think is one of the basics of the interpellant, that society must not only look at the criminal processes, even though it is very important, but also on the social and human aspects in every respect. That is why I am pleased with this project that has become part of Trondheim, and the cooperation between which it has been established, let's say, the legal system, state systems and municipal services. That today's aid to victims of rape needs to be improved, we all probably agree. Women and men who are subjected to such gross intrusion deserve a satisfactory assistance. For me, this is also a matter of protecting and safeguarding human dignity in an extreme situation, and I intend to continue working on this with it as a starting point. Let me add that I think it is deserving and very wise that there is a male representative who raises this question, because I am working not only on rape cases, but also on the issue of violence in close relationships, has encountered a phenomenon that Norwegian women's movement has taught me, namely that you meet the so-called glass wall. Those who have not been subjected to the pressures and stresses simply don't understand what you're talking about, yes, in some ways they're celebrating it. A strong expression was that I was visited the other day by two victims of violence who gave me a flower with their greeting: now you must not give up when you meet the glass wall either. It was to deep thought. The two had found answers to their lives by getting a platform in life, not least educationally, which they would use insightfully and wisely to support others. They had managed their own humiliation, to say it that way. But the political reflection is exactly what I feel that the interpellant has come forward, and which I value very much, namely that we must jointly ensure that that glass wall does not close to the practical measures, and that we can move along the two tracks of criminal law cash and properly and in the aid and support apparatus in a proper way, with a low threshold and with a human face.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e183	I thank you for your answer. I think there was a lot of uplifting in that answer. I also understand that these are processes where we, among other things, have to have some samples and workgroups, but I counted many, both samples and workgroups. One signal that I think we all agree on is that some of this we have to be able to do fairly quickly. On several occasions, we have already discussed this period of ageing, among other things. the question of the situation of crisis centres. It is a great paradox for me that it should be so much in mind to ensure both the legal anchoring and the financing of such an aid offer. As far as rape victims are concerned, we have 600 to 700 reviews during the year to be handled by society. It should not be inconvenient to achieve either economic, legal or political better structures in relation to the actual functioning of the assistance provision. I am pleased with the work done by the Government here. I look forward to what comes, and I hope it comes quickly. In the case of Dixi Resource Centres here in Oslo, which do a huge job in relation to being a resource center and being a reception and receiving people affected by it directly or indirectly, it's a huge paradox for me that they have to spend a lot of their time securing funding year after year. A lot of the volunteer we are mobilizing in Norway to help people who are having a hard time is now helping to get money every year. Sometimes I feel like a politician who in many ways is just one who stands in the way and is the glass wall for those who want to help people. There can be no particular political disagreement about this. That's why I want a system like the Inga Marte Thorkildsen was a little bit involved in a previous debate, compared to whether we can't start looking at this kind of suffering as something that society has a clear duty to get rid of right away. It costs money, but it won't be insurmountable. It's not an invincible number either. In my opinion, it will also do much better to improve the percentage of clarification and the percentage of conviction in these cases, if we get the aid earlier on the track. That will ensure an explanation. This will ensure that the investigation is put under pressure, that a picture is taken, that clothes are kept, and that the counsel is contacted. When I get to it, I want to challenge the Minister of Justice in relation to the question of the possibility that the assistant lawyer can now be appointed more quickly and linked to such reports immediately, so that we get a faster explanation, a faster process and faster evidence assurance. I think that'll be very important. Finally, the question of DNA. There we are actually facing areas where I perceive it so that in the Storting there is a great deal of cross-political consensus both on the question of whether we want more tests, and on the question of whether we want more registration. It's a paradox that we have police districts in Norway today that almost don't do DNA tests. So here we have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e202	How should I say this to be constitutionally correct and constructive? I think I have to say it this way: I'm both the Minister of Justice and the Council of State. It is clear that I know what responsibility I have as Minister of Justice, but I also know what responsibility I have as a Council of State. The results of my efforts as the Council of State must be allowed to be expressed in the ways that happen when the Government presents itself to the Storting. But I have e.g. a responsibility for the action plan against violence in close relations, and I have already said that rape should be included in that context. So that means that I take a responsibility for using that plan to be a driver. Then I think that beyond the political sphere we should also have a challenge that the police have had to face. The police have had to meet how the police are going to deal with complicated issues in the private sector. Since I have worked in social care, I would say that it is not always given that health and social workers get good enough back coverage to meet that kind of question. As far as state action is concerned, it is clear that a debate in the United Kingdom on this issue is making it clear, and that the Social and Health Directorate is conducting a debate on how to actually organise the health service. But we also have a debate that I have addressed in many other contexts in this Chamber, namely that we have local municipal services. It is a crossroads of thought that in the professionalisation of Norway, local politicians have been chased out of a normal ombudsman role. I mean, they're not supposed to be doing proceedings, but they've also let themselves be chased away from insight into the situation that people who get into a violent squeeze can be in. Therefore, the cooperation that is now taking place in Trondheim between the municipality of Trondheim through a number of municipal services, prosecution authorities, police and courts is so crucial. Because it's about the moment you meet, you get what you're legally entitled to, but you're also met with the services that you're going to be there. Then the point must be that you shouldn't run after them. There's something that's going to meet you. We have a parallel in Norway where we actually got this useful. It's in part of the babysitting systems that we've set up with the police when young people get into trouble. So I am absolutely sure that if you manage to get the debate that the interpellant has raised here in the main hall to be a debate at the elected level, also at local level, we will be able to ensure that politicians meet, possibly in a political competition, which is real, but perhaps most often by being Community organisers. Because there is no doubt that much of the fragmentation of public administration, also locally, and the fact that politicians are being chased away from the ombudsman role, or being chased away, is part of the invisibility. I perceive that the main point of the interpellant is visualization, so that the careless will get us so close that we do something about it. In terms of DNA, my point was that what already exists as an opportunity, I want to go into, to make sure that what can happen there happens, and then I'm not now talking about an extension of the legal basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e221	First, I'll give honey to the interpellant because he's traveling this interpellation. For too long, only women's organisations, women's politicians, lawyers and women's journalists have taken up and focused on the lack of follow-up to rape cases. I am therefore pleased that there is a male politician who is now travelling such an interpellation. We have to get the men on the field in this case. Police and justice are still very humanly dominated. A recently published study from Sweden, conducted by Professor Christian Dienn, shows that rape victims are still facing fundamental mistrust and skepticism. The police and prosecution authorities assume that the vast majority of reports are false. Unfortunately, I do not think the situation is very different in Norway. Here again, I think there are old opinions that the girl seams are responsible for the rape. In the few cases that come before the court, the girls feel that they are being held responsible because they went lightly dressed and offered themselves. It's a totally unacceptable attitude in a liberal and equal society like the Norwegian one. There's no excuse for men to commit crimes against women. A no should be respected. In addition to the antiquarian attitudes, the biggest problem is getting good enough evidence. The courts cannot judge until there is clear evidence that a rape has been committed. Violence committed by unknown offenders has always been regarded as criminal and is so far unproblematic, legal. The big problem occurs when the rape is committed by some girl knows well or has a relationship with. The Swedish survey shows that the male view of the right to sex is still alive. The woman is considered to be sexually available. It's only when she can prove that, against her will, she's been forced into action, that the courts can judge. It must be proved that she has resisted. The problem is that in many cases there are no damaged or torn clothes, and then words stand against words. We know there's a lot of darkness for rape. Extent studies show that 40 pst. by all Finnish women have been victims of physical or sexual violence after the age of 15. When we look at the crime statistics from the SSB and the rape department at Oslo Medical Service, it shows that only half of those who come to the rape ward report the rape. Two out of three reports for rape are passed, and 15 pst. of all notifications ending in a conviction. The result is in practice that rape is a crime where the perpetrator can calculate with a very small risk of being punished, despite the fact that rape is one of the most raw and offensive things we can imagine. For the Workers' Party, it is an entirely unacceptable situation that so few cases end up with conviction. That is why the Labour Party believes that the police need to get their own rape investigators, the assistant lawyer must be appointed before the notification is filed, and we need to have better procedures for the reception of violence and rape at all medical wards.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e234	Being exposed to a crime is serious. Especially serious is it if you are subjected to violence or other physical abuse. But some of the harshest and most offensive things we can imagine are rape and other forms of sexualized violence. It affects our most intimate sphere in a degrading way. Women who are subjected to rape and other forms of sexualized violence must not just tolerate violence and terror during the course of the act. Many also have to live with long-standing physical and mental adverse effects of the assault. As has been said earlier here today, in reported rape cases, the order rate is between 80 and 90. There are numbers that are, of course, too high. The cases are dismissed because of the position of the document. We have to do something to make these numbers go down. We also have to do other things. We need to put in place measures after the action has taken place. These include criminal responses and assistance and assistance to the woman who has been subjected to the offence. It is of great importance that society reacts to the attacker and that the woman be treated in a way that minimises the adverse effects of the attack. Not so long ago an adult lady told me her story. As a highly esteemed and respected business leader, one day she experiences the terrible happening: she's being raped, raped by someone she knows. She dares not tell her story, for she is afraid not to be believed. And that's exactly what's happening. She won't be believed. Too long before the auxiliaries arrive and the notification is delivered, the matter becomes difficult to prove. Of course, in the meeting with the legal system, she is very weak. For the first time in her life, she is not believed. Many victims of rape experience it this way. Although, as legislators, we have done a lot in recent years to strengthen the position of victims of rape, it is not very close enough. We must continue to work to ensure that women or men who have been raped are not confronted with mistrust or scepticism in the judiciary. Rape must be treated as the serious crime it actually is. Victims are to be met and believed, both in the auxiliaries, in the police, and not least – and that may be the most important thing – in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e247	The interpellation taken up by the representative Storberget is undoubtedly timely. Of course, this is also a difficult matter from many points of view. The best thing would be if we had not taken such a debate and other difficult debates. But as long as this issue is a reality, we have to deal with it. A rape is undoubtedly one of the worst things you can be exposed to. It's enough, as others have been in it, one of the worst hurdles you can be subjected to, not least the burden of living with it all your life afterwards. I think those who haven't been through it are not able to imagine how this toes on a human being. You say you can work through it and put it behind you, but I think some things you can't do. It stays there as a factor for the rest of life and will color life through the presence that it wants. It says something about the severity of this. At the same time, we must be able to be so honest that we take inwards that a claim of rape is also a huge threat. Fortunately, it is exceptional that a claim of rape is not real, but it is an incredible threat that unfortunately can also be used. We must be aware of that. That's why we have to be very conscious of the objectivity that we have to have in our justice for both parties. To whoever is a potential victim, and to whoever is a possible perpetrator, we have an obligation to take care of the legal security aspect. If not, we can't balance where we have to and have a balance. So we also have to include that dimension. I think that when human beings are pushed to the extreme, when situations of life become difficult, we resort to things that we wouldn't otherwise have done. I don't think this is happening on a large scale, but I think, unfortunately, it happens sometimes when a breakup approaches. I think that also happens in relation to claims made in child distribution cases, on which there was a debate a few days ago. All of this has in common that it hits people then to those degrees directly and personally. I believe that one of the things we should do is work on prevention measures in order to prevent domestic violence, but also to prevent serious violence by random perpetrators on accidental victims. So I think the approach to the interpellant is a little bit interesting and challenging. When the goal is to increase the rate of conviction, at least I assume that it will be done in the light of objective and good treatment by the police and prosecution authorities. After all, the goal cannot be to judge anyone more. For me, at least the most important thing is that we look at the framework conditions for this. Then, of course, the Storting must make its priorities in terms of action here, towards all other good purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e260	I would like to start by thanking the representative Knut Storberget for bringing up this interview. It's a very important interpellation on a theme that we should travel far more often than what we actually do. 6 000, 8 000 or 9 000 — there is an estimate of the number of people who are subject to rape in Norway in a year. Many of these people, especially then women, are being raped several times. A great many of the rapes are committed by a girlfriend or a husband, preferably in a violent life. Domestic violence and rape are often two sides of the same story. Most of the rapes committed in Norway are not rapes. They're celebrity rapes. It presents us with some very difficult challenges. One thing is to tell you that you have been raped when you were on a jogging trip in the woods and an unknown person threw himself over you, something else is to tell you that you were drunk at a party, and that you couldn't say no. Therefore, SV struggled in his time to criminalize grossly negligent rape, where it would no longer help that you didn't know she didn't want to. It has resulted in a few convictions, as far as I remember, and it has at least helped raise the level of consciousness compared to understanding that rape is not just about doing something despite a no. So the woman should not sit with all the responsibility in relation to saying no. People are very different, and not everyone can say no either. Many who have been raped have been subjected to other types of assaults in the past, which has meant that they do not have the same ability to communicate a no-one as bastant, for example. I have. So we got 681 reviews in 2002 – and 52 criminal reactions. It's scandalously low! SV has for a long time called for rape reception in Norway. In my little county, Vestfold, it's about. 450 rapes per year — that is an estimate — but there is no reception for rape. There are no qualified places where people who have been raped can turn. I have asked for an overview of where there are rape receptions, and where there is no one, and how this government intends to ensure that these are established everywhere. I also asked the Government to get an overview of whether you have a higher percentage of information where there are rape receptions, and whether you might have a lower percentage of information where you don't have it. I have not received an answer to that for natural reasons, because this government does not have an overview of where there are rape recipients. The last time I asked, I was told that this was to be answered in 2003. Now they say in 2004. I hope this comes. This is actually a clear order.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e271	The representative Storberget looks for a serious problem in this interview today. It's alarming that between 80 and 90 pst. of all reports of rape are ordered according to the position of the witness, and therefore the case ends in a judgment. Rape is a very serious crime, which society is under obligation to pursue. That the degree of conviction is low has a negative preventive effect. In addition, the numbers can signal that we do not take seriously those who are subjected to serious sexual assault. It's serious! When the Storting revised the Chapter of Criminal Law in 2000, the aim was to strengthen the protection of women and children from sexual abuse. The main change in this way was an extension of the rape clause by, inter alia, criminalisation of grossly negligent rape. The penal code now affects not only the one who commits rape knowingly and willfully, but also the one who should have known that he committed rape. I refer in the other context to the post that Inga Marte Thorkildsen just held on to this topic. But we have to be equally fully aware that in many cases it may be difficult to provide evidence that a rape has occurred. The police investigation into rape cases can undoubtedly be improved. A thorough investigation into these cases is crucial to the possibility of a conviction. However, the problem is that when words are against words, there is much to be done to meet the strict requirements of criminal law. However, I am surprised that the representative Storberget categorically states in the interplay text that «the contact with the police... feels like a great additional burden to the victims». In the name of justice, I think we have to admit that the police's efforts in matters relating to sexual crimes have improved in recent years. There is little doubt that more people experience the police as accommodating and supportive, but there are, of course, opportunities for improvement through both increased knowledge and experience of the investigators. In particular, it is important that issues relating to rape, incest and other sexual crimes are given priority in the police. Things need to be investigated quickly and thoroughly. Everything else will lead to a still high deposition rate. I also think it is necessary that the police take out charges in cases that they may not be 100 pst. make sure to win forward with. It may seem that the list of prosecutions in rape cases is too high when close to nine out of ten reports end up with an order. The number of sexual offences reported has increased steadily from 1980 until now. Although we know that the numbers in this area are large, the numbers show that more and more people trust that it's useful to report. However, if we do not manage to make further reviews, I am afraid that the number of reported abuses will fall again. It will be a serious retreat! It is important in this context, as it has also been claimed by others, and as I myself have said in other debates on similar topics: it is important that we men in the Great Britain engage in this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e284	Also, I want to pay tribute to the interpellant, who has taken up such a serious matter and put the search light on a problem. The use of violence is unacceptable in all its contexts. Domestic violence is particularly devastating, because it happens in a sphere where a normal person should feel safe. Domestic violence is not a private matter, but a social problem. Either at home or in public, at a party or in other contexts, violence and rape are a violation of criminal law and thus a matter not only for those involved but also for society as a whole. Only the one who has been subjected to violence knows what a humiliation it is. Many can't put words on it, many react with anger, hate, despair and frustration, and a desire for revenge. Those who are subjected to violence need help – qualified help. When a woman overcomes fear and despair, the help must exist, immediately. The Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs has unanimously asked the Minister for Children and Family Affairs to take immediate action to support crisis centres threatened with closure. A majority of the Committee has adopted a decision on State funding of 80 p.m. and 20 pst. from the municipalities. In most cases, women who have experienced domestic violence or rape come to the crisis centres. It is important that the State has an offer to the raped, whether it is at its own reception or at another medical or hospital facility, and it is important that a well-qualified assistance offer to the rape victim is readily available and ensures an equivalent offer for the rape victim throughout the country. It is important that there is qualified competence in the police too, people who can deal with a rape victim who comes to the police to report an assault. The problem is often that if a victim meets a police officer who is not well qualified or who has the necessary skills, this may have major traumatic consequences for the victim. It is therefore important, as the interpellant points out, that an aid lawyer is quickly appointed. In the case of rape, it is necessary to ensure that criminal proceedings are expeditious. The Minister of Justice himself said that now it can actually go up to seven months before the matter is brought up. We know that if it goes too far from the incident/report until the criminal case comes up, the victim of the rape will feel that she or he has to go through the terrible experience of being raped one more time, and it is perceived as an additional penalty for the raped. A lot of things aren't going through this once. We have to do something about this, and it's urgent! In the end, I would like to give my full support to the emphasis of the Council of State on the need for assistance to victims of rape to be available locally. This requires, for example, that the social services have the skills they need to provide it. We all need to take a common lift to get the help available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e304	In 2003, 724 rapes were reported, an increase of 50 pst. since 2000. This may be due to several factors, such as the fact that there are more rapes now than before, but the figures may also be influenced by less fear among victims of assault. The political signals have been and are massive in relation to taking the sexualised issue of violence seriously. That between 80 and 90 pst. the arrest of the rapes by reason of the position of the witness is of concern. In the majority of notifications, there is already a close relationship between the victim and the perpetrator, and very different explanations of what has happened. This makes it difficult for the courts to deal with such cases, where there is often a lack of evidence and material evidence. Even more worrying is the presence of darkness for this type of crime. As the interpellant points out, it is important to ensure the necessary evidence as soon as possible after the notification has been delivered. DNA evidence will become increasingly important in the future to solve crime. In the long term, the necessary competences and resources for, among others, the police need to be ensured. be able to use mandatory DNA tests, as are other methods of investigation. One of the legal changes that have been important to clarify what rape actually is is is the extension of the concept of ‘rape’ that has taken place in criminal law. For example, threatening behaviour in order to achieve sexual intercourse is now covered by the rape clause. The Interpellant and the Minister of Justice are concerned with the direct offer of the victims of rape today. Resource centres, crisis centres and local health services do not appear to be sufficient. A nationwide structured reception apparatus would facilitate the situation of many victims and perhaps give others ‘unannounced’ victims a lower threshold for reporting. A well-organised reception apparatus will be able to remove the burdens that the victims of the rape have to face, such as police interrogations, medical examinations and any court proceedings. The fight against sexualized violence must be fought on several fronts. In addition to a faster investigation and proceedings from time of notification to final conviction, there must be sufficient preventive measures. But any ex-post action will never be anything but fire-extinguishing preparedness. Over the decades, the school has, among other things, driven by different attitude-creating work. Nevertheless, there is great darkness and a statistical increase in the sexualized violence. It might be important to look at the cause and effect effect. An increase in sexualised violence, in my view, has a clear connection with an increasingly sexualised culture through, among other things. music and films, and not least through the new wonder programmes of modern TV, so-called ‘reality’ programmes, the only purpose of which is to test the sexual moral boundaries of young people. Today, we have a TV concept that, for each new programme concept, wants to arouse ever stronger reactions among viewers and participants. This type of TV communication also affects the minds of young people in relation to the sexualized demarcation – or lack of such, unfortunately. Combating sexualised violence in today's culture is becoming increasingly difficult, but with systematic prevention and a well-functioning support and relief system in retrospect, victims of rape will be able to be given improved dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e321	Only every 13 sexual crimes have unknown overlaps. Every six cases dealt with in court shall end in acquittal. Notified cases of incest and rape are usually both ordered and acquitted. These are research-based facts that were presented in an article by Reid. J. Stene in the journal «Societal mirror» No. 3 for 2001. This information scares me. First, it is serious that the detention rate is close to 90 in many rape cases where the police know the offender. Secondly, it is worrying that every six cases that come through the loop and reach the courts end in exoneration. It's also worrying that it's the most serious sexual crimes, namely rape and incest, that have the highest rate of deposition. Earlier in this debate, the representative Marthinsen, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, has highlighted the importance of good police work in rape cases, and I fully conclude on his comments and conclusions. In my opinion, it is quite important to examine whether there is any link between the local percentage of information in rape cases and the existence of a recipient of the rape where the offence is committed. I know it per. There are currently no data to provide us with knowledge of this, as the representative Thorkildsen also mentioned. But I have been pleased to report that the Riksadvokat has taken an initiative towards the Faculty of Law at the University of Oslo and suggested that this is precisely what is being researched. If we get evidence that rape recipients are of importance to the outcome of a case, there is no doubt that there must be more rape recipients than those we per. today. Of course, the victim of rape needs help and follow-up far beyond what the police and courts can provide. The existence of a qualitatively good and easily accessible help offer is therefore essential. The offer must be both economically accessible and geographically available to those who need it. The Dixi centres, which have been mentioned in the debate, make an invaluable effort. Crisis centres and incest centres also provide a formidable job to provide victims with protection, assistance and follow-up. It is an overall political task to ensure that such centres receive an economy that ensures that all those who are subjected to sexual abuse and other types of abuse are offered. It is therefore important for me to contribute to the establishment of such centres in Norway. It's not enough that Dixi has departments in Oslo and Stavanger. We also need them in other cities, for example. in my hometown, Kristiansand. I will conclude by congratulating the representative of Storberget, who has today put the case of those who have been subjected to the rape on the agenda in Stortinget. Political attention is vital to the situation of those at risk of abuse. Matters relating to abuse of women and children must have the highest priority in the police, and the assistance must be clear to those who need it. This is a goal that obliges the police, the helper and me as a politician.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e336	This was nice. We're in agreement. All lots, from the Advance Party to the SV, agree with the actual description and agree on the needs. Either we sit in opposition, or we sit in government, in position, we agree on the actual description and needs This really means that it's time to fold up the sleeves: shall we take a roof? Are we going to be serious about the posts we've been doing here today? I recommend it. Hide the insertions! Please refer to the minutes of this debate until we discuss the issue of, inter alia: The crisis centre financing, which lies in Stortinget! Hide the record until we deal with the issue of speeding up criminal proceedings, which is being dealt with by the Justice Committee these days! Hide the record until we deal with the issue of the extension of the legal aid scheme in relation to, for example: the lawyers for assistance, which will cost money! Remember this debate! Taking into account the record that we are now dealing with both in spring and autumn, the issue of providing municipalities with an increased framework, a little more liberal economy, so that they can also give priority to very important welfare tasks! This applies, inter alia, to: the establishment of low-threshold services, which are not immediately required by law. Hide the record from this debate until then! This debate will then have real significance. It is quite obvious that the debate on the percentage of conviction is only useful given the fact that those who are exposed and affected by rape actually get a better situation by raising that percentage – there is no objective in itself. This will always be very difficult things. That is precisely the argument that we must have an alternative strategy; we cannot just bet on criminal law. In my opinion, strengthening the treatment system, the rapists, we also reinforce the evidence situation into criminal law, so that, as I said earlier, it is linked. Finally, I am pleased that the representative of the Progress Party is just calling for – perhaps in fear of the percentage of conviction in this matter – the prevention work. That's good tones. To prevent rape and really take it seriously, I think, among other things. must help shift the focus of criminal policy and not just talk about stricter penalties and new methods. If we are to prevent rape, we need to look at the fact that more than half of the rapes in Norway are committed in alcohol intoxication, which is probably the result of a fairly liberal alcohol policy in many municipalities. If we are to prevent rape, we also have to follow the line that the representative Dybevig was on, in relation to trying to dampen the sexual pressure that is now actually present in many forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e350	I have said before, and I can repeat it now that what is at the heart of the government’s – and also my – justice policy is that justice policy should address social and health policy. That's absolutely necessary. This is the case in today’s debate on people – mostly women – who are being raped. This is also the case in debates on violence, in debates on how to get out of drugs and crime, and in debates on children in need of help. A large part of this debate will probably focus on the importance of legislative proposals, organisation and money. But an important part of this debate that has now been raised is about what sits between the minds of people, and in the debate it has come to light that you will be absolutely sure that there is nothing wrong with what is sitting there, in the police. And furthermore, there has been a rather challenging debate on how Norwegian police are going to deal with criminal acts in the private sector, which I think Norwegian police have taken constructively. Then comes the next debate, and it's about how the health and social services in Norway and the professionals who also meet relationships in the private sector. And it is very important to consider that when the Ministry of Justice carried out a rapid investigation of violence in close relations last year, a number of cases occurred in connection with the business of the family protection offices. Thus, very many places in Norway show this in completely different areas than one would immediately believe. Of course, it appears at the crisis centres. Much is also seen in the police, but also elsewhere. Very little is seen in the social offices. In other words, many people may not only experience a lack of someone who is good enough to listen and who is qualified enough to help, but there are often people who are willing to start listening. And in that context, when Knut Storberget is saying in vain that we should remember what is said in debates in the Stortinget – which is a commitment of a government, a commitment of the parties in the Stortinget – we must certainly remember that also in the places where people in Norway live – they all live in a municipality. Of course, we can compete in party politics about how much money the municipalities need, but there is a lot of trouble to do, no matter how much money you have, if you don't understand what you're going to spend on them. I repeat my favorite treat: there are lots of frozen crowns in the frozen reefs. Then people ask me where those heads are sitting. Then I say they're sitting between people's senses. I have so many examples of it, and I have so much background in my life beyond politics, that I know that challenging these debates locally and professionally is very important. I thank you for this interpellation debate. I perceive that it is one of the debates in which the Storting sits down and reflects and likes to try to mobilise for an effort in different contexts, both in the Storting and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e365	The President would point out that it must be presumed to be harmful to health to wear crowns between the senses. The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e373	Then we are ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e415	Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-27.ana.ud1430e426	There is no record.
