ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11-lower.ana.ud1284e26	The President expects there to be only one post at a time. 3 minutes. If everyone stays in the hall, it'll be quick to complete the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11-lower.ana.ud1284e40	The Financial Committee has handled Ot.prp. No 66, a proposal leading to a pooling of the savings banks' hedge funds and the commercial banks' hedge funds into one common fund. The legislative proposal must be seen in conjunction with the merger of the banking units of former DnB and Mutual NOR to the new DnB NOR Bank and the take-up of changes that have occurred in connection with it. The aim is to achieve a better spread of risk, as the risk spread ratio has increased with the merger of the banking units. The Committee is in agreement and is in agreement with the Government's proposal at all points and indicates that merging the Fund will result in a better spread of risks and an increase in impact. I'm just going to comment on a couple of points. The legislative proposal came after an initiative by the Finanznutritens Hauptorganisation and the Sparebank Association, and none of the hearing bodies has objected to the Government's proposal, which is otherwise essentially the same as the original proposal by the Sparebank Association and the Finanznudustriers Hoofsorganisation itself. It is easy that Mutual NOR has our member of the Saving Banks Insurance Fund, while DnB has our member of the Business Banks Insurance Fund. Because Mutual NOR is the acquiring company in the banking merger, the new DnB NOR Bank is a member of the Saving Banks Insurance Fund. However, there is currently no right to transfer funds between the two funds. A placement of DnB NOR Bank in the Saving Banks Insurance Fund will therefore mean that the liability of the Fund increases monthly - without at the same time increasing the capital required to ensure compliance with this responsibility. A pool fund, as proposed by the proposal, will have a risk-absorbing effect which would enable the fund to carry out better the task of securing deposits in the banks, even if the proposal leads to a reduction in the requirement for responsible capital in the fund. This will include: be a model for member banks to compete with banks outside the Norwegian insurance scheme. The Committee stresses that the impact on ordinary depositors in the first row will be related to the size of the deposit guarantee. The government's proposal is to keep at the thumb limit, which will provide a contributor's guarantee of full coverage of deposits of up to 2 million. kr if a bank cannot make up its own. This is consistent with previous and, therefore, significantly more than in other countries, among others. EU minimum requirements. So it's hard to see that a combination will have consequences for the consumer. In addition, the Committee agrees with the Government's proposal that the current members of the Reserve Banks Insurance Fund should be compensated for the higher capitalisation of their funds and that this is done in the form of a separate, limited-term exemption from the obligation to pay the levy and that this period, with the exception of the levy, is set at three years. With that I would recommend to the Committee its recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11-lower.ana.ud1284e61	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11-lower.ana.ud1284e69	The odelsting shall wrestle when all are in place in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11-lower.ana.ud1284e451	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11-lower.ana.ud1284e461	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-11-lower.ana.ud1284e472	There is no record.
