ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e34	Honourable co-representatives! Mr. Kolbjørn Stordrange's former representative has passed away, only a few months after he turned 80. Kolbjørn Stordrange was born on 27 September 1924 in the former municipality of Nes in Vest-Agder. After graduating artium in 1945 he became a farmer at the father's farm Stordrange in Nes in 1947. The responsibility for farming was combined for several years with both a teaching post and philology studies. He became a cand.philol. in 1954, and from 1955 he combined as a farmer with a lecturer position at Flekkefjord High School. Kolbjørn Stordrange became a member of the reign of Nes in 1955. He was rapporteur for the period 1960–63. From 1965 he was a member of Flekkefjord City Board and chairmanship. He was also a member of the county board of West Agder Right from 1955 to 1963. Majorrange met at Stortinget as an alternate several times in the period 1958-1961. After the election in 1965, he moved in as a permanent representative of Sverre Walter Rostoft, who became an industrial minister of the Borten government. The big crowd met constantly throughout the period and was elected representative at the elections in 1969. He was re-elected in 1973, but he chose to withdraw from Stortinget in 1977. In Stortinget he was first a member of the then protocol committee and chairman of the secret protocol committee. From 1969 to 1973 he was a member of the Agriculture Committee, while in the last period he was a member of the Church and Education Committee. He was also a member of the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, a member of the Delegation of the Grand Duchy to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and an alternate to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Kolbjørn Stordrange withdrew from Stortinget in 1977, but this did not end either in his professional career or in his political efforts. He went back to Flekkefjord High School, where he was principal from 1979 to 1991. He also went back into municipal policy and was a member of the Flekkefjord City Council from 1979 to 1995. From 1991 he was a member of the Presidency, and from 1979 to 1983 he was the group leader of the Right Town Council. He had a wide range of responsibilities, both in public and in other organizations and institutions. For his great social commitment, Kolbjørn Stordrange was honored in 1994 with the King's Gold Medal of Merit. In 1995, he was awarded the National Stamps of the Municipalities, 40 years after he began active municipal policy. In one of the necrologists at Kolbjørn Stordrange’s death, it is called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «An entire town and part of the country bends their heads in grief, but at the same time in gratitude for what Kolbjørn Stordrange meant to so many people.» It is easy to agree to such an assessment, even in the case of Stordrange’s operation in Stortinget. He made a solid effort in his two expert committees, where he could draw on his experiences both from agriculture and from school. He was a hot spokesman for West Agder and not least for the western part of the county. But most importantly, perhaps what is also mentioned in the quoted necrolog: he meant too many people, even in the Storting. We remember Kolbjørn Stordrange for his work in Stortinget and shines peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e63	Two permit applications are available: from the representative, Mr Modulf Auchan, on leave from 8 December to 13 December to take part in the marking of the National Day Celebration in Kenya by the representative, Mr Synnøve Konglevoll, on leave on 9 and 10 December to attend the meeting of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Paris On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representatives, for More and Romesdal counties Rigmor Andersen Eide and for Troms County Knut Werner Hansen, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e94	Rigmor Andersen Eide is present and will take the seat. The representative of Marit Arnstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e99	On behalf of the representatives of Odd Roger Enoksen, Åslaug Haga and myself, I will be allowed to present proposals for measures that can secure and create new jobs in Finnmark based on marine resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e104	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. The President would also draw attention to the fact that it may take some time for the Odelsting meeting to be completed, since, after the long-term plan was first established, a new matter has come before the Odelsting meeting. At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e135	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 20 minutes each, Center Party 10 minutes and Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group, and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e146	I would like to begin by thanking the members of the Committee for a sound budgetary procedure. In this context, I would also like to stress the professional competence of the members of the Committee, which is reflected in the position. It is therefore still a cross-section of my mind that the professional expertise held by the Committee may, to a very small extent, have a practical impact on the further development of the health and social area in the country, given that the framework, which goes not only on chapters but also on individual items, has now been defined by the Financial Committee. It has only succeeded for the Progress Party in negotiations with the government parties to move 28 million. NOK 282 billion of a total budget of 15 and 16 frames. I would recommend that the Office read the budget position carefully, as I believe that the Office has much to learn from the members of the Committee on Health and Social Policy. There is hardly anyone here in the house or outside the house who has not recorded that the current budgetary position has got a significantly better social profile than the government suggested in its proposal. The Progress Party has put its social stamp on the budget in several areas to a significant extent this time. In addition to the health and social sectors, the budget has gained a more social tax profile. Matmomsen has been reduced and the local economy has been significantly strengthened. It has been nice to note that in negotiations with the government parties both in the main agreement and in the small agreement, the Progress Party has been met with the respect and cooperation that the Progress Party deserves, as one of the largest bearing parties in Norway. The fact that the health and social sector in the current budgetary position has become one of the budget winners, I personally consider it to be very enjoyable, as this is my last participation in a budgetary procedure in the Stortinget. As I see it, the budgetary agreement will provide a good basis for better cooperation between the civil parties until the 2005 elections. It is important that the bourgeois parties cooperate to curb the three socialist parties that are expected to form government at the next crossroads. In a budgetary settlement, one cannot get all his wishes fulfilled. In particular, I am sorry that we did not increase the basic framework for hospitals by NOK 1.2 billion, as the Progress Party has done in its alternative budget, which is included in the vote. Similarly, it was not possible to get the psychiatrician at St. Olav's Hospital into phase 2, nor has it been possible to determine the chiropractor's education in Stavanger. It was also sad that we did not get a clear signal for setting up a rehabilitation centre for cancer at Hysnes Fort, nor did this time again receive the general tomb support. In the main budgetary agreement, the Progress Party was agreed to increase the input-based funding from 40 p.m. to 60 pst, which will allow a significant increase in patient treatment in 2005. In particular, local hospitals benefit most from a higher ISF, as ISF covers approximately 200 pst. the costs of treatment in local hospitals. It would have looked very dark for many local hospitals if one did not now cancel the ISF. There has been a considerable frustration among hospital health professionals about the reduction of the ISF carried out for 2004 by the government parties and the Workers' Party, leading to a reduction in patient treatment in 2004. In the agreement, it's added 500 million. NOK 100 million has been allocated to the basic budget of enterprises. SEK to Health West and 50 million. kr to Health Mid-Norway. Thus, we have reduced the time for repayment to these enterprises from five to two years. In the government's draft budget, it was set up to increase the equity ratio, i.e. what we call sickness taxes, with a total of $12 billion. In the budgetary agreement with the Government Parties, the Advance Party has reduced this amount by 862 million. NOK, which has given the consequence that the share stake only increases by NOK 35, to NOK 1585. It's the smallest increase that's happened in the last 16 years. In addition, we were able to zero out the increase in excess of the proportion of transport by free hospital choice and to remove the proposed increase in excess of the excess in physical therapy. As far as the outcome of the mini-agreement with the government parties in the committee is concerned, we have, as I said, redispatched 28 million. kr on many different chapters and items. In this context, I'm going to highlight an earmarked 3 million. kr to Norwegian Research Council for Basic Research at ADHD at the University of Oslo. ADHD patients play a significant role in psychiatry, while field research is far back in Norway, particularly in relation to our Scandinavian neighbouring country. We also got 3 million. kr to Mental Health for further preparation and design of the Frogners Centre, a learning and mastering centre to be built in the Ski, with the support of all relevant user organisations. Furthermore, I would like to point out that we got 2 million. kr to Bionor A/S in Skien, who has developed a treating vaccine against HIV/AIDS that has been clinically tested in Ullevål hospitals with very good results. These two million now allocated are supposed to be used to prepare a project in Lesotho, Africa, a country where 25 pst. - 25 pst. – by the population is HIV/AIDS infected. From the small budgetary agreement, I would also like to point out that 2 million will be allocated. To Modum Bad for the opening of a separate entry for the treatment of young drug users with double diagnosis, an offer for which there is a very great need. The State has now assumed this responsibilities. It is also necessary to mention an additional allocation to the Church's SOS of 1.5 million. kr, which makes it possible to keep the auxiliary telephone of the Church’s SOS operational in 2005. Overall, the mini-conciliation has also further strengthened the social profile of the current budgetary position. The Progress Party is asking in its alternative budget and in the motion for a resolution that the Directorate-General for Health should draw up recruitment standards at our nursing homes. This applies to both doctors and care professionals. I refer in this context to the comments of the Riksrevision, where in Document No. 3:9 for 2003–04, significant deficiencies and breaches of the rules of the elderly were identified. The Control and Constitutional Committee has recently examined Document No. 3:9 and had an extensive consultation within the committee. The Norwegian Association of Nurses, the Norwegian Medical Association and the National Association of Public Health stated during the hearing that the elderly reform has largely become a housing reform. There are two aspects that have not yet been clarified in relation to care for the elderly. First of all, what is the correct definition of luck care and care? Secondly, can old-age homes, nursing homes and nursing homes be equated when determining the needs of the care and care of the lucky day? Nursing and care in a non-permanent nursing home cannot, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be treated in the same way as a nursing home. The Progress Party believes that overall the ageing plan has reduced the number of places for the care and care of the lucky day. As the Progress Party sees the situation in the care of the elderly today, the initiative cannot end in 2005 as planned. It has to be continued because there is a deficit in municipalities of at least 15 000 sick homes by the end of 2005 and the need will only increase sharply by 2010 and 2020. I'm glad that the psychiatry in this budget has been given a significant boost. I find here reason to ask the Minister of Health to pay special attention to the use of psychiatry in enterprises and, in fact, in individual institutions. The professional expertise in this field may seem to feel free from professional consensus and effective patient treatment. Public psychiatry must be required to be as effective in patient treatment as private psychiatrists and psychologists. Finally, I refer to the proposal put forward by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the present position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e182	The representative John I. Alvheim has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e187	Those who have heard the representative Alvheim at this pulpit during this year have heard him repeatedly thundering against the limits that Norwegian hospitals have at their disposal this year. Hospitals are running a deficit of approximately SEK 2.2 billion this year. Next year hospitals will balance. The financial framework, as the budgetary agreement now provides for, will increase by approx. 500 million. kr next year in relation to this year. In other words, next year, Norwegian hospitals will have to cut by NOK 1.7 billion. When we hear the representative Alvheim repeatedly thundering against the financial framework that hospitals have this year, how can the representative then defend the fact that next year the hospitals are facing so dramatic cuts as a result of the budgetary agreement of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e194	To the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, I would first like to say that the situation in health companies was equally difficult last year, when the Workers' Party agreed with the government parties. They were able to put 500 million in place. kr. We've done that, too. In addition, we have increased the input-based funding that will ease the pressure, especially in relation to local hospitals, in a very good way. I am aware that the Workers' Party's alternative budget is SEK 1.5 billion for hospitals. But then, as Jens Stoltenberg said last year, when the Workers' Party was in agreement with the government parties, it will be that it has DKK 1.5 billion in its alternative budget – the Progress Party has NOK 1.2 billion – it is essentially very irrelevant to discuss such a discussion as this. That's what's adopted, that's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e201	According to the agreement, the appropriations for the specialist health service amount to approximately NOK 65 billion. I've seen Alvheim in different contexts, including in the Questionnaire, get involved with the Council of State, because it's changed the input-based funding from 40 to 60 pst. of what is to be paid to hospitals, with questions as to whether this should not lead to a significant increase in activity. But if the activity increases significantly, there must be extra costs in addition to the NOK 65 billion. Does the Progress Party and Alvheim believe that it is in the nature of entering into a conciliation, allocates a sum of $65 billion, but assumes that the sum to be actually used should be higher than what has been agreed on in the budgetary agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e206	I have just said in my post that it is the local hospitals that are getting their economy and their future strengthened by increasing the ISF, because the local hospitals are mostly getting paid 100 pst. for the treatment they provide, in contrast to the major university hospitals, which are only partially covered. The ISF system is an estimate appropriation. I assume that the representative, Olav Gunnar Ballo, is also interested in the treatment of as many patients as possible and that the waiting time should be cut. This could then be done in 2005 with the budgetary agreement now in place between the Progress Party and the Government Parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e211	The nature of politics is strange, and for that reason the Labour Party and the Advance Party can also discuss who has given the most when both have given too little to the local hospitals, last year and this year respectively, in connection with the state budget and conciliation. I would like to raise another matter that we were dealing with last year's Progress Party, the psychiatry center that is planned to be built at St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim. The party was fully in agreement with the demand that this be done last year. This year they go back to it and say that the DPS can be a good starting point and now form the main arenas for specialised mental health work, and that these should also be a natural arena for education and research. Does the representative of Alvheim really think that a level of psychiatry on the level of DPS at Trondheim is good enough to run research and development?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e218	I would like to say that the Advance Party was one of those parties and perhaps the first party to propose the inclusion of a psychiatrist at St. Olav's Hospital in Phase 2. When it is not included by the Government, you had to find 600 million in this agreement. It was not possible for anyone in this room – including the social committee – to understand. The progress party has not given up building a psychiatrist at St. Olav's Hospital. That's absolutely necessary. It's not enough here to build on the DPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e223	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e227	The budget currently covers two budgets with a total net expenditure of around 280,000 million. kr. We're fighting for two to three million dollars, about one pst. of the budget. Many would argue, however, that this makes a political environment visible, characterized by idyll and consensus. Today's debate will probably reveal that this is not the case. Differences are not large and dramatic, but they are important, not least if they follow developments over some years. Of course, the government's proposal for a government budget was a tradition of faith, and so once again there was a proposal for tax relief to those who already have the most. Those who have the least were also, as usual, demanded new excesses in medicine and medical services. However, it is not surprising that a Right- predominant government is promoting proposals in line with good Right-wing policy. But at one point I have to say that I was actually shaken. I had never imagined that the Government, knowingly and willfully, would make proposals that meant breaking written agreements that the Government itself had signed. But that's what you do. On 3 December 2003, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Minister for Administration, on behalf of the Government, signed the ‘Intention Agreement on a more inclusive working life’. That's what paragraph 2 says. «The Government will not propose to Stortinget that changes be made during the contract period to the current sickness scheme for neither employees nor employers unless all parties to the contract agree to it.» However, despite the crystal-clear text of the agreement, we feel that the Government is making proposals to make changes to today’s health insurance scheme – for employers. And we experience that both Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs argue that the agreement has already been broken – it should provide a significant reduction in sick leave, and we have not. Then the assumptions are broken, and therefore the Government cannot be obliged. At least here is the gift of pride, because what does the statement of 3 December 2003 say? Let me make some important quotes: ‘On this basis, the parties note that it is unrealistic to achieve the objective of the agreement of reducing sick leave by 20 % by the end of 2005.’; So the government is one of the parties. It was a premise when the agreement was renewed, that all parties were aware that the goal of the agreement had not been achieved. Yet they chose to renew it. Why? The explanation can be found a little further in the text: ‘Parties believe that the concept of IA enterprises contains a number of positive elements that should over time be able to reduce sick leave and create a more inclusive working life. Together with the extent to which the IA concept has now been given, the parties consider it important to allow the IA agreement to operate for a longer period of time.» We are told – just after the state budget has been presented – that the agreement is starting to work. The Minister of Finance reports that sick leave is expected to be lower in 2005 than originally foreseen by the Government in its draft budget. Nevertheless, the agreement is broken. In the course of budgetary cooperation with the Progress Party, the breach of the Agreement shall take place from July onwards instead of April. I don't doubt that there are states where such behavior of a government is normal, but I doubt that there are states we would like to compare with. When you can't trust written agreements with the Government, what can you trust? I can't say anything but that I'm very disappointed in what's happening here! Hospitals are heading for a deficit this year of about NOK 2.2 billion. Next year hospitals shall be balanced. The government's draft budget means that next year hospitals will receive appropriations at about the same level as this year. So the government says that next year hospitals will have to cut their budgets by $2 billion to balance. Of course, this is not possible without carrying out drastic cuts, which would weaken the supply of patients. For this reason, an overall opposition has consistently made it clear that the final budgetary procedure in the Grand Duchy must lead to increased appropriations for hospitals. In the opinion of the Labour Party, it is right to maintain the requirement to operate in a balanced manner at hospitals by the end of 2005. However, it is conditional on the size of the budget to provide a level of funding to enable hospitals to comply with this requirement, without depriving patients of important offers. The Advance Party often talks about increased appropriations for hospitals. The progress team often talks about protecting patients. But over and over again, we see that when the Progress Party has power, it gets talked to. Norwegian patients have every reason to be dissatisfied with the budget agreement. True, the comparison involves 500 million. kr more to the hospitals. But hospitals have to be balanced next year. They go this year with a deficit of NOK 2.2 billion. 500 million. kr more implies that the next year's operation must be cut by NOK 1.7 billion. The patients will feel that on the body! It is right to demand more health requirements for hospitals for each krona. It is possible to streamline hospitals without affecting patients. That is also the prerequisite for the Workers' Party. Therefore, our alternative budget means that we propose to increase the allocation to hospitals by SEK 1.5 billion. So with our scheme, hospitals also need to streamline their operations by about 700 million. kr. It's realistic to do without the patients getting hit. But SEK 1.7 billion will certainly lead to drastic cuts in the number of patient treatments. That must be the responsibility of the Progress Party! The party of progress will probably claim that with a change in the ISF share, many more patients will be treated because it will allow hospitals to ‘treat themselves out’ of the financial problems. They probably can't, because what does the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party say about this? Well, that's what it says, and I'll quote again: ‘The ISF fraction is set to 60 pst. from 1 January 2005.’In the context of the Revised National Budget for 2005, the Government is asked to come back with an assessment and proposals to ensure cost control, see: Hagen Committee setting.’» And what does the Hagen Committee say about such cost control? Indeed, the sample states that a maximum ceiling must be set for unit-price financing. In order to obtain cost control, patient treatment must be prevented from growing too much. Hospitals cannot therefore ‘treat themselves out’ of the economic problems. I feel absolutely certain that the Council of State agrees with me in this, although he will hardly say it as clearly as I do now during the day. But the clear signal certainly comes from the newsletter that the Council of State is going to send out to regional health companies in January. Then I'm sure the representative Alvheim will protest. But it doesn't matter to the Government, because then the budget has already been adopted. So I know that the Progress Party will claim that they have a complete scheme that they will propose here in this Chamber, which will secure the hospitals' economy for next year. They will propose, in the context of this year’s ageing, that additional DKK 2 billion be allocated to hospital budgets this year and that these new billions be granted with the addition of ‘transferability’. In the financial debate, the representative Alvheim said that they would propose to cancel debt by NOK 2 billion. Then they've probably come to understand that it's going to be a very small improvement in the operating situation for next year. That is why there is now a proposal for an additional allocation in the year’s budget – at the same amount – which is ‘subsidised’. But it will have exactly the same effect for next year's operating budget as it would have a debt cancellation. In a letter to the Minister of Health and Health, I asked what effect an additional allocation of NOK 2 billion will have on next year's operating budget. The council answered me yesterday. The answer is: ‘If the Storting grants SEK 2 billion in 2004, which is also paid to the regional health companies in the current year, my answer is that this will improve the liquidity of health enterprises and mitigate the need for operational credit in 2005, and will have no impact in 2005 in addition to reduced interest costs associated with this additional liquidity as you correctly point out.’;» If one reduces the operational credit next year by NOK 2 billion, it will amount to SEK 60 million. kr on the operational budget. The budget knife must therefore remain in spite of any additional appropriations this year. The party of progress is responsible for this! The escalation plan for mental health has led to increased appropriations for psychiatry. More people get treatment. Nevertheless, we see a number of examples of people with mental disorders not being treated well enough. In recent years, we have especially been given examples of the situation in the psychiatric department of Ullevål University Hospital. In the newspaper VG, we have been able to read about a serious suicidal woman who – according to the newspaper – was left alone for so long that she was given time and opportunity to commit suicide. This week we could read about a woman who the relatives believe was not helped to deal with a terrible death anxiety associated with her cancer. Today we can read a new story in the Evening Post. From before, there has been a lot of attention about the so-called carnage killing, where a man was discharged from the psychiatric emergency post at Ullevål, despite the fact that the man had no offer of help after the discharge. I cannot go well because all of these matters through the newspaper are objectively and completely described. Of course, bringing forward three such cases does not give a proper impression of the overall psychiatry activity of Ullevål. But in an old saying, it's called "no smoke without fire." At least there's a lot of "smoker" from Ullevål right now. The Minister of Health and Welfare is the head of the whole of Health-Norway. I am asking the Council of State that he present in his contributions today his assessment of the current situation of the country's largest hospital, Ullevål University Hospital. The Minister of Health and Welfare uses most of the possibilities to express that the most important thing now is to invest in psychiatry. The Councils of State have inter alia: notified that this would be a very central area in the governance document of regional health enterprises. That's good. The only question is whether the good intentions will be implemented with the financial arrangements agreed between the Government and the Progress Party. The Government Parties have entered into a budgetary settlement with the Progress Party, thus changing the financial mechanism for enterprises to 60 p.m. input-driven financing and 40 pst. basic appropriations. I fear that this will lead to the very opposite of the Minister of Health and Care now promises in the case of psychiatric patients. This funding mechanism may tempt enterprises to give priority to patients with simpler conditions, which are more profitable for hospitals. In 2003 it was also 60 pst. input-driven financing. We have therefore freshened in mind how the same government argued that the ISF share had to be lowered to 40 pst. Former Minister of Health Dagfinn Høybräten, who is also here today, stated in the Evening Post on 9 October a year ago: ‘We need to give priority to those who need treatment. The increasing focus of hospitals on profitable patients poses a risk of distortion away from psychiatry and chronic illness.’ I fully support this wise statement by former Minister of Health Dagfinn Høybräten. However, it would be of great interest to hear the assessment of this opinion by the current Council of State. The situation is now more serious than it was a year ago. Due to the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, health businesses will have to save large amounts next year. I fear that this will particularly affect the psychiatric patients. The risk is that increased treatment for some patient groups leads to fewer treatments for psychiatric patients and chronic patients. Despite psychiatry, the growth of the somatic part of the health care system has been higher than that of the psychiatry in recent years. Can we say we've been betting on psychiatry? I leave that question hanging. I will end by saying that I address the proposals the Labour Party is promoting alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e315	The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e320	I record that the Workers' Party in a small note confirms that the private service offer in the specialist health service has been a contributing cause for the large cut in the waiting lists and in waiting times. What surprises me is that the Workers' Party does not at all participate in comments that indicate that regional enterprises are now using only the private ones as a complement by their role, and that the Ministry will, for that reason, in the governance dialogue with regional health companies, stress the need for adequate long-termity and predictability of the framework conditions for private hospitals. My question to the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen will be as follows: Does the Workers' Party's lack of interest in the private hospitals in this setting mean that they are now back to their old position where private hospitals were at best perceived as a necessary evil, and where it was most possible to protect public activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e329	The Labour Party believes that we should have private hospitals in Norway as a complement to the public health service. But the responsibility must be public, and the weight of the Norwegian health system must be a well-developed public health system. So we think it's right and important that the public is complemented by private, not least because we believe that the public also needs correction. But there's going to be a cooperation between the public and the private. For this reason, we are very satisfied with the fact that cooperation between public hospitals and private hospitals takes place through the conclusion of agreements between regional health businesses. Then we think that there might be reason to further develop these agreements, and that they often provide too poor framework conditions for the private sector. But holding on to the contract system means we're right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e334	Due to strong criticism from the National Audit Office for the implementation of the older reform, the Control and Constitutional Committee recently held a hearing in which it concluded that the elderly effort of over DKK 30 billion has become too much a housing reform rather than a care reform. I then ask Bjarne Håkon Hansen: Can the Progress Party count on the Labour Party's support to re-enter the ageing plan in 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e341	I think what Mr Alvheim's representative is dealing with is very important. We have in no way completed the efforts in Norwegian care for the elderly, even though the planning period for the elderly plan has ended. What is often the danger of such a planned effort is that when the planning period is over, breathing as well as the political environment is relieved, and then you look for new areas to bet on. But there is every reason to move on with the development of Norwegian care for the elderly. I'm more than willing to join in discussing with Alvheim whether it's going to happen through a new plan. But I think it is also important in that context – when we look at the growth in the number of older people in the coming years – to consider how to get into a system of local economy that makes it possible to deal with these challenges independently of a plan. But I'd like to have a discussion about that, and take good advice on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e346	I noticed that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen commented on the level of costs in the specialist health care and development here, and on the uncertainty of possible expenditure growth next year, that the Council of State has little clarified it. And these are considerations that I fully agree with Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. If you do not control this expenditure growth, we will hit the areas that the Stortinget has said you should give priority. This applies not least to the psychiatry, but also to the drug field, to mention two examples. At the same time, I think the Workers' Party itself in some comments gives signals that there is a significant underfinancing of the specialist health service. There is a signal that you are not necessarily particularly concerned about prioritizing psychiatry and the drug field. It also appeared in the agreement last year between the Workers' Party and the government parties that it did not have priority on the part of the Workers' Party. Does Bjarne Håkon Hanssen see that what he himself points out is that one should be aware of, namely the need to avoid a cost increase in the specialist health service, makes one lack of resources in the areas that should have been prioritised?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e355	It is a strange notion that is out and going when it is claimed that the Workers' Party has not prioritised hospitals in the context of this year's budget. If we look at the whole of the new age last year, the budget for this year and revised for this year, the hospitals have about 1.4 billion more with our proposal than with the Government's proposals. In addition, the balance sheet requirement is deferred for one year. One could have imagined the situation in Norwegian hospitals alive today, if we had adopted the government's order on all three occasions. Then we would have had about 1.4 billion less on the budget plus balance this year – and so this year we are going with 2.2 billion in deficit. To compare what we've done with the hospitals this year, with what the Progress Party has done, that's to compare two very different objects.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e362	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e365	The welfare society is much more than the welfare state. In the welfare community, both individuals, families, organisations and workplaces have a responsibility for their well-being and the welfare of others, because good life is created primarily in relationships between people, within families, among friends and at work. We all have different opinions about what is the good life for us, so welfare policy must be based on the belief in the individual. It must aim to enable individuals to contribute their resources, so that more people can manage themselves. Thus, welfare schemes must involve both rights and obligations. Requirements for the beneficiary are an expression of faith in the individual. Vibeke Melstrom is the head of ULOBA, a company she started with five others. So far, most people will think: Yes – a female leader and founder. But Vibeke Melstrom is also lame from the neck down. It's part of her that in most cases would have overshadowed the rest of the person. But as she herself says, ‘If I constantly thought of myself as a disability, it would limit me enormously.’ She goes on to say, "It's a bear service not to make demands on disabled people. If we accept a passive role, we miss the opportunity to evolve. It is wrong to assume responsibility and justify it with care. The roles we have, shape our identity." Work and participation are the basis for well-being. The right-hand objective is a working life with space for everyone. This requires both a forward-looking industrial policy, a well-adapted labour market, welfare systems that promote activity and follow-up adapted to the individual. This requires a review of our welfare systems. One out of five people in working age currently has a population interest as the main source of income. I never meant to. Our welfare state should not give us a way of life, it should give us a safety net that gave us new opportunities. Could it be that because we've built a welfare state that's been so focused on securing the financial payments and care, we've got a business and social life where it's hard to be different and where it's hard not to be able to deliver a hundred percent of the time? In the spring, there is the issue of coordination between Aetat, the social security system and the social services that will shape the work of the Committee. This will be an important issue in order to provide more coordinated services and prevent users from falling between several chairs. However, such coordination must also be accompanied by changes in legislation and arrangements. Too much attention is focused on human limitations rather than opportunities. We must therefore systematically review all welfare schemes aimed at people of working age with one thing in mind: giving people new opportunities! This government has been willing to try different approaches to this. The first large project was a time-limited unincorporated fee, and we have also made a number of changes to different schemes aimed at the unemployed. The analysis is clear: the longer a pre-worker receives passive benefits, the less likely he/she is to return to work. This follows the Government into the budget of the year. In sum, an increased bet of more than 230 million is proposed. kr to labour market measures for the disabled in 2005. One of the projects I think is very exciting. Many people who have received a disability pension before 2004 can imagine going back to work. Unfortunately, they experience legislation that does not motivate work, but is a barrier to work. Using a disability pension as a wage subsidy, this barrier is turned into an option. Thus, for a long time, the disabled person may try to work in the workplace in a secure manner that, if it does not work, there is a disability pension in the back. We need more of these trials. It is therefore important that we look at what new opportunities we can create instead of building closures when reorganising services and designing new legislation. But we also need to change our attitude, and public opinion must go ahead. As Astrid Sund, the top manager and deaf, said, ‘I hope soon business managers dare to focus on our opportunities, not the constraints.’ This applies not only to business managers, but to a large extent to public business. This is a special budgetary procedure for the Social Committee. This is the last government budget of the Committee's long-standing chairman, John I. Alvheim, is a member of the committee as a magnificent representative. I stress the latter, because I do not feel quite sure that he will not participate in any more government budget debates – but then outside this house. But it is nevertheless time for a little reflection on what I think has been political decisions made in cooperation between the government parties and the Progress Party in this area, and on which our committee leader has made a clear mark during this four-year period. I want to bring forward three things that I think have the greatest social significance. The most important and the first issue is the drug reform. Through it, one in this period has been able to give the persons who, in order to use the Minister’s expression, may have been sitting at the bottom of the health policy table, the same rights as other patients. The other issue I want to raise is the Patient Rights Act, where during this period we have finally achieved the important principle that both the Advance Party and the Right have been working for many years, namely to give patients an individual medical deadline for treatment. And the third point I want to draw is raising the basic pension of married and cohabiting pensioners. These are all three major and important issues that will shape Norwegian society for many years to come. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have also agreed on the budget for the year. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a clean and positive budgetary process. We have made important changes to the budget, including: the increase of the ISF rate from 40 to 60 pst. In the setting, we are also clear on how companies should treat their private suppliers and partners. In the context of the changes to the Committee, we have been able to strengthen the priority of those groups that usually receive least in the Norwegian health system. There is a further strengthening of the supply of drugs to drug users and of psychiatry, prevention and cohabitation. I am very pleased that during the first year of the budgetary agreement we have been corrected over half of the imbalance that has affected Health West and Health Mid-Norway. This means that, with the overall increase and opening of health care assessment, health businesses should be given good opportunities to meet the balance sheet requirement in 2005. We must note that the three parties that aim to establish a majority government after the elections have not been able to assemble consistently on a common policy in this position. But we can nevertheless see the outlines of what hopefully never becomes the policy of the majority: These batches have chosen to stand outside any comment that gives a vision to the private part of the health care system. There is a signal that a person wants to reverse this government's policy of including private hospitals as part of the public health service. These parties stand together to ensure that local politicians re-enter the management of hospitals to different degrees. It means a reversal in relation to the goal of one health-rich, for the benefit of the patient. These parties do not regard the free hospital choice as a positive. This is a clear signal that the government's policy, where patients' free choice has its own value, is at risk of being reversed. These parties say in the nations yesterday that if the Health Minister joins Health South and Health East to ensure that patients in this area have a better offer – without a health wall across the capital – yes, then they will reverse this too. This implies that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party in this setting have been able to concentrate on a health policy in reverse – the patient's choice will be limited, and it is again the politicians who need to know what is best.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e414	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e418	It is with some wonder that I record the satisfaction expressed by the representative Bent Höie in relation to health policy, amazement because I believe that the hospitals in the coming year go into their most difficult year in many decades. The size of today's operating deficit is, as we have heard and know, 2 billion kroner. So of this, the sector is going to get approximately. 500 million. kr from the conciliators. What is the impact of the representative, Höie, on the development of hospitals and on patients, of a strong under-funding of hospitals? I can refer to the fatherland friend yesterday, where it is explained that one to two hospitals are now being investigated in the South – just as a reminder of what might be waiting for the budget that has now been provided by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e423	I do not think that in any way in my post I created a picture of the Norwegian health service as if everything were pink. It's a long way to go. But when the Labour Party in today's debate and the follow-up by the representative Asmund Kristoffersen are trying to create the impression that there is a dramatic difference between the budget for the hospitals that is being adopted today and the alternative that the Labour Party has presented in its budget, it is a huge exaggeration. The difference in the savings requirement between the two budgets is 1.5 pst., 1.5 pst. of a budget of DKK 65 billion. If that is what constitutes a be or not for Norwegian specialist healthcare, it would have been very bad with the specialist health service in this country. It does not — it is third in the world, and most health services in this country are first in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e428	In the budget agreement, the Progress Party has made it clear that the ISF share is now to be increased from 40 to 60 p.m., which several have been involved, primarily in order to increase the activity of hospitals. Representatives of the Progress Party have argued in various contexts that this would mean significantly more money for hospitals than the budget – a figure of DKK 1 billion has been mentioned in this room. The question to the Right is then: does the Right also assume that the transfers to the hospitals will be significantly higher than what is reflected in the budget figures?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e433	As I said in my introduction, I am pleased with the change that has been made in relation to the ISF rate. I believe that there is a change that can contribute to greater flexibility, and not least, as also the representative John I. Alvheim said: it can give some of the smaller hospitals that have invested in special niches more opportunity to develop further. As a sure reminder from last year's budget debate, we voted in last year's budget against one point that was in conflict with the Right Programme, and that was a reduction in the ISF rate. So it's clear that for us it's not negative that this is changing. But that gives us two major challenges, and I expect the Minister of Health to follow up on the governance paper. One challenge, which is the most important, is that one through the governance document clearly announces that one should continue to strengthen the psychiatry. However, there is also no evidence of repeated claims that the ISF rate has led to a distortion in the Norwegian health system. There was never any evidence of this in connection with the Hagen Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e440	Right-wing representative Bent Höie said that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Left-wing Socialist Party were ‘without notice’ dealing with private actors. We don't do that at all, but the difference between the government parties, the Progress Party and us, is that we want control, among other things. with the growth and development of private laboratories and the private X-ray institute. What the right-hand side says is not to have control, but growth in the use of these institutions. With regard to comments on private actors, I would like to ask the representative, Höie: why is he and the Right not involved in increasing the operational base and framework conditions of the training institutions and the individuals who perform good and proper rehabilitation, an offer that we absolutely need in Norwegian health care? Why do not the government parties agree to ask for money to be found for Hysnes HealthFort and Selli rehabilitation and training centres, for example.? These are private actors that we support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e447	The funding system for training institutions is one of the issues that the Committee may have worked most on in these years. It is a major challenge for us to establish a fair funding system that provides a good framework for private training institutions. The approach taken by the majority in this budgetary position is to freeze the social security share of their funding at the same level as in 2004, thus providing for a transitional period of one year, so that a permanent and sound system can be established through regional health establishments. Our goal is that, throughout the year now, a proper agreement will be put in place with the private training institutions, which will ensure their operation and not least reflect the quality and work they are doing, will bring them into a permanent and fair system and will not continue the terrible unfair system on which today's system is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e454	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e457	In my post, I will focus on the framework area 16, the health budget, while Molvik will later mention the framework area 15, the social budget. In other words, the total benefits under the budget agreement for the health budget are NOK 94,5 billion. Specialist health services alone account for about 10 % of the total population. $65 billion of that amount – in fact, more if you look at reimbursement schemes that are linked to popular security – so two-thirds, almost three-quarters, of the total cost. A comparison with the adopted budget for the current year shows an increase of approx. 9 billion, of which approx. half have gone to specialist health services. So the increase alone represents almost half of the total budget for transport, or three-quarters of the agricultural budget. And just the increase in the health budget we are discussing today is about four times the total environmental budget. It means, in the SV's view, that one of the most important things to do with the health budget is to manage the economy, so that the funds are used in a targeted way where it is politically determined that they are intended to be used. If no deficits are created, prevent the groups that were meant to be prioritised from getting the help they need. The strange thing is that this is a reasoning that often does not reach the population, because it can often be created by looking up the media that the areas that are actually the highest priority are those that are the lowest priority. In the case of specialist health care, there has been a formidable increase in health establishments in recent years. But in view of that, we see how, in particular, psychiatry, not least the drug field, has become harmful. In autumn 2003, the Government called for a reduction in input-based funding from 60 to 40 pst. There was every reason to do so, and the Government also received support from all parties outside the Advance Party for this change. The government itself pointed to the disadvantages of the blending model, with the combination of input-based funding and framework funding: It was too low cost control. There was a risk of undesirable distortions, because not all patients and regulated activities are covered by the input-based scheme. It is a complex system, which requires significant administrative resources for control, maintenance and development, and the system can be misused. Furthermore, the Government itself pointed out that high reimbursement rates could stimulate overcapacity in some areas. A study conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers in 2002 was also referred to and reproduced in St.meld. No 5 for 2003-2004, Specialised Health Income System, which pointed out that the following conditions could explain the management deficits in hospitals: It was a poor planning and budgetary process. Activities were planned independently of the budget. There was a lack of economic analysis of new treatment methods, technology, bottlenecks, etc. There was a lack of understanding of how doctors used the time. Powers were delegated without the necessary management system and with unclear performance responsibilities for the management of the department. Government expressed its opinion: ‘It is necessary to have increased management focus on the use of resources in the priority areas. The objective is a balanced and guided development of treatment provision in line with the Patient Rights Act and the priority regulation. A better balance between activity financing and basic funding will support such a goal and reduce the risk of undesirable distortions in the supply of patients. The Ministry therefore recommends increasing the basic appropriations and reducing the ISF and outpatient rates from 2004 onwards (see Figure 1). proposals in St.prp. [[2003-2004]] No Add So this was widely supported in the Storting, but in the agreement that has now been concluded, the whole system that the Government itself has initiated is reversed. SV believes that it could have quite serious consequences over time if no approach is found to the specialist healthcare service that reduces this expenditure growth. The most serious consequence is precisely for those groups that the Government itself pointed out just one year ago could be harmed. This applies to patients with mental illness and disability rehabilitation, as well as to education, research and prevention. I want to add: not least, it also applies to the whole drug field. But through the budgetary agreement that the Government has entered into with the Progress Party, the Government is just accepting this development. After repeated questions to the Minister of Health, it has not been possible for him to clarify what he thinks will be the cost increase for the specialist health service for the next year, but this does not make it clear to the Council how to get control of the same expenditure increase in order to ensure the prioritisation of the groups that are currently deprived, not least within the escalation plan. We've seen a number of media headlines about how little control the government has regarding the psychiatry supply to the population. We have had a look-up in the VG that describes the conditions at Ullevål Hospital as very severe. Where the Minister of Health was visiting, it was recently puffed up, while in the premises he passed, the sewer ran down through the roof, and there were patients who were discharged in a state where they were psychotic. Today’s evening post says: ‘The patient was granted leave — too dangerous for the caregivers’. In the VG on 28 November, it says: «The House of Shame», and «This is the House of Health Minister Ansgar Gabrielsen was not seen». Psychiatrist Ira Haraldsen describes a situation where patients can be offered a screenboard in the living room. The November 29 newspaper says that children have to wait for months for psychiatric help. Studies in the various health care establishments today show exactly the same waiting time of 90 days as the government says it had three years ago. The government describes the decline in waiting time to 75 days, but you are now at the same level as the government says you left three years ago. The lack of resources for the weakest is evident. This applies to psychiatry in general, but it is also highly relevant to the drug field. We've seen the unworthy conditions in Oslo by emptying Plata, without having alternatives to offer, and where you get a mix of prostitution and drug abuse in the Skippergate. There were these challenges that should have been addressed. These are the areas for which funds should have been released, by controlling the growth of expenditure in the specialist health service. Instead, you get a deal that will reinforce these differences, because you just don't have control of the same expenditure growth. With regard to the field of medicinal products, over the years there have been significant increases in costs, not necessarily with targeted resource use as an objective. We have seen how the social committee itself has been very active in evaluating different medicinal products. In 2001, the Social Committee called for the use of rheumatism agents Remicade and Enbrel on the bladder prescription system, and Aricept was adopted into the scheme. Next year, Actos, Avandia, and Singulair were mentioned. It could be read in the opinion of the Social Committee that ‘the triple combination with steroids, beta 2-agonists and Singulair does not produce any added effect’, according to the scientific community. But the social committee was of a completely different opinion. The following year, Cipralex, Citalopram, Nexium, Omeprazole, Carduran, Sinalfa, Actos, Avandia, Plavix and Spiriva are mentioned, and the social committee has a bastant attitude to the type of drugs to be used on the bladder prescription system. This year, Actos and Avandia are being re-launched, which have been welcomed. They also mention Risperdale Consta in positive terms, and mention Spiriva and Remicade. This could have been compared with the fact that the Finance Committee welcomed the fact that Volkswagen Caravelle had now been reduced by seven seats, or that Suzuki should be given some van on the Norwegian market, so that it did not have the same limited access to the car that is available in Germany. This is at all an unfortunate one you have to deal with. It's unworthy, and the committee says it's not okay. Of course, much of this does not improve the financial committee in the context of the revised national budget. But anyway, we have to take an initiative and end it. It is clear that behind this is the pharmaceutical industry. Here are formulations that, if you study their documents, you can recognize, but that have instead become committee formulations. We register in SV that there are proposals from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party where the transfer to Section 10a of the prescription of the bladder of preparations prescribed both for chronic obstructive lung disease and for asthma is accepted. As far as all of these considerations are concerned, we have deliberately let go of it in the committee, much based on what I have just said. But we think it makes sense to split these two points and not go the way that you have to search individually. It will create a bureaucracy for the individual. But we have to clean up the medicine field in a completely different way than what has been the case until now. We are looking forward to a full review of the pharmaceutical policy. Then Stortinget has to take a co-responsibility for the situation that has now arisen, for example. in the case of Vioxx – a product that has significant side effects – precisely because the Storting itself stimulates the authorisation of medicines that should be left to the professional community to be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e539	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e542	SV joins the setting to limit free hospital choice. Patients’ right to choose their own hospital is proposed. ‘Respect for the choice of users’ and ‘patient in the centre’ become pure bottles without this patient’s right. The absence of this right was probably comfortable for a number of hospitals. Patients in the queue who did not have the opportunity to be treated in another hospital were a pretty ‘order reserve’, which some hospital managers called the queue of patients. The introduction of free hospital choice has also led to increased access to patients for a number of local hospitals. What does SV want to achieve by limiting patients’ right to choose a treatment site? And why does SV want to undermine the ability of local hospitals to profile themselves in specialities, which, in turn, can help local communities maintain their local hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e551	I'll first express joy over just this question. It allows us to clarify what SV is intended to do. I have said in my main post that it is very important that we get control of the increase in expenditure in the field of specialist health care. We are in order for patients to be able to go to hospitals other than their local hospital if that is medically reasonable. We believe that there are two reasons for this, which we have also underlined in our remarks: one is to use capacity in other hospitals if the waiting list is clearly longer at the local hospital, and the other is if you want a medical reassessment because you do not have confidence in the local hospital. It may not be reasonable for the State to use its expenditure to cover travel in the absence of a medical indication. This is one of the dilemmas facing a party like the Right: that you are willing to finance tickets for people even though there are no medical reasons why you could have been treated locally. We're dedicated to using the resources targeted. Therefore, there shall be a medical indication for the free hospital choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e561	It was a force-salve from the representative of Ballo in the case of medicinal products and pharmaceutical policy in the Committee. I think that if the representative Ballo had got into what's going on here, he would see that it's actually SLV's recommendations that the committee has followed up, but the government hasn't found budget coverage for it in every single year. Then it also shows how great and good it will be when we are going to get our own medical report. But the reason why we don't get it until now is actually that SV has gone against it earlier. This was the majority in the course of two years ago, there was a late evening meeting between a former Minister of Health and Olav Gunnar Ballo up in the department, and then they got an MR bus to Finnmark, and then the whole proposal fell in the committee. That's interesting. What I would like to ask the representative, Mr Ballo, to respond to is – he was concerned with the problem of COLS: Will SV now support the proposal made by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party in the vote that we should not transfer COLS medicines from Section 9 to Section 10a?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e570	That's right. We also say in the vote that we want to support that proposal. But we want to stress that the premise to support such a proposal must be that it is reimbursement for drugs that were actually intended to be used for the purpose for which it is refunded. If it is that a drug is intended to be used for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, we believe that it should still be refunded, and that it should not be so that you have to apply for it individually. However, if it is the case that Norwegian doctors have a prescription practice that prescribes drugs on false premises, that the drug was not intended to be used for that purpose, a refund scheme should not be continued on the basis of those premises. It may in some cases be that what is involved in giving us $9 billion on an annual basis to Norwegian medicines is simply that the public funds are not targeted enough to make the patients who need it the most are those who are prescribed these drugs. This is a problem, and I perceive that the government has pointed this out as a problem. We are going to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e575	Before the representative goes down from the pulpit, perhaps there are proposals he should have brought up?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e578	The proposals from SV have been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e583	The representative Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e588	First of all, I would like to thank the Progress Party for the orderly and thorough negotiations. The result underlines important things that the Christian People's Party is burning for. Even if we move in a few millions of such a large budget, these funds mean a lot to the recipients. Positive feedback from drug protection institutions such as Kraft and the Evangelical Centres shows that 5 million. helps in an acutely difficult situation. These private institutions are important actors in a comprehensive treatment and care provision for drug users. The Christian People's Party sees the need for these care institutions to have more long-term solutions. We also ask that P22 be ensured for further operations. This institution has helped many drug users with its street offering. Noise prevention, directed by non-governmental organisations, is reinforced by 3 million. kr. The aim is to postpone the age of the first to young people in terms of alcohol use. A youth campaign shall be developed. In order to gain more knowledge about the drug problem related to mental illness, we have allocated 2 million. kr to Modum Bad for the development of such competence. In our busy time, it seems that fewer and fewer people have to share their concerns with. The auxiliary telephones operated by voluntary organisations testify to this fact. The need is growing all the time. Many young people send messages via the Internet. The Church's SOS is in contact with all secondary and secondary schools. This year, they will receive an additional aid of 1.5 million. kr for this work. For the Christian People's Party it is important to prevent and prevent unwanted pregnancies. It is gratifying that the rate of abortion among teenagers in 2003 was the lowest recorded in the last 25 years. However, when women face a difficult choice situation, the Amathea organisation has shown that they have been good partners. Support of 15 million. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It is sad that both the Workers' Party and SV have deleted this support in their alternative budgets. Too many are struggling with mental problems in our country. A lot of people get lost for that reason. It is good that the escalation plan is on track by a grant of 850 million. NOK to be operated and set at 737 million. SEK for investments next year. The Christian People's Party supports that municipalities receive the strongest growth – a doubling compared to 2004. We believe in a decentralised offer where the user lives. The Christian People's Party has been skeptical about increasing the ISF share in our hospitals, because we've feared that psychiatric patients would be deprived. I am pleased that one of the revised national budgets for 2005 will come back with an assessment to ensure that psychiatry is maintained. At that premise we support that the ISF share is set to 60 pst. from 1 January 2005. We see that hospitals are struggling financially, and the extra 500 million. kr, which is now in place in the agreement, will come in handy. 150 million. kr is allocated to Health West and Health Mid-Norway regional health companies in order to speed up the under-financing of these regions. This benefits patients through increased treatment capacity. In the budgetary agreement, the Government has taken the view that regional health businesses should achieve a balance. The Christian People's Party sees that the necessary efficiency and conversion measures can go beyond patient treatment. The situation of Health South is most uncertain. We are therefore pleased that the majority will provide for a relaxation of the balance sheet requirement for Health South in 2005. Better cooperation and coordination are key words for success in healthcare. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the work of including private hospitals in a better way. We also see the need for better coordination of hospitals in our capital. The introduction of electronic prescriptions will provide doctors with a good tool and will ensure better quality and less waiting time for patients using individual reimbursement applications for blue prescription medicines. Initially, the Christian People's Party believes that the excesses under roof 1 have become too general. Very many of us have improved the economy and can pay something more the few times we need medical help. It must be a goal to help those who have high costs. Roof 2 is set down from NOK 4 500 to NOK 3 500. This provides a good protection for the chroniclers and others with high health costs. It's a pleasure that this year we have a positive change in sick pay. Disease absence has changed from expected growth of 3 pst. to a decrease of 4,5 pst. This brings a saving of SEK 2.2 billion, which is mainly transferred to the municipalities and relieves the pressure on their budgets. For each one, it means a lot, both economically and socially, to get to work. From the next year, a new testing scheme is introduced, which may also be tested in the workplace. This is innovative and a very good arrangement. Employers receive the disability benefit as a wage subsidy when they hire disability pensioners. They are paid in the same way as other employees in the establishment. If the work attempt fails, the employee will be reinstated. This is a win-win situation for both parties. I really hope that the way into working life becomes wide for everyone, and that the way out gets narrower. Working for everyone is an important objective. Not everyone can have a full day of work. A flexible labour market will be a key to success. Next year, SEK 3.2 billion will be invested in action plans for people with disabilities. This represents 24,500 places – an increase of approximately. 2,000. There has also been an increase of approx. 300 new places under the ‘Precautionary work’ measure to maximise activity and not just passive beneficiaries. Married and cohabiting pensioners can enjoy the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. From 1 May next year, the basic pension is increased from 1.65 G to 1.7 G. This is a matter for which the Christian People's Party has fought for many years. As the rapporteur for the public health report, it is reassuring to see that it is a real strengthening of public health work. Research is generally strengthened, and for women's health in particular. That's what's needed. It is granted 66.7 million. for prevention in the fields of diet, exercise and freedom of smoking. $22.2 million. kr shall be used for fruit and vegetables in school. I look forward to the action plan for increased physical activity announced next year. Our country is like created for activity, and everything should not be done indoors. In Document No: 8:6, which is also dealt with today, SV and the Central Party propose that a person be entitled to a rehabilitation allowance in excess of 52 weeks under the exemption provisions. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that one has a system that leads to an early clarification as to whether the beneficiary can return to work or must be granted temporary unpaid pay or disability pension. There have been criticisms that the new rules are well practised rigorously. In a letter to the Committee, the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs states that the derogations must be practised in such a way that no one becomes unsolicited while waiting for a fresh or untied notification. Under the budgetary agreement, a proposal for the evaluation of rehabilitation funds is to be submitted in the context of the revised national budget for spring. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the inclusion of the proposal in the Minutes. The proposed partial liability of the employer during the period of sickness benefit from social security has been deferred by the budgetary agreement and will be re-assessed if it appears that sick leave falls more than expected. All schemes are based on the active use of each of their resources to ensure a good quality of life and a decent life for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e646	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e649	Parties to the Government have programmed for the introduction of qualifying days in the sickness pay scheme. Against this background, the breach of contract that the Government is now making with the employee and employer organisations is particularly serious. It is natural to imagine that this breach of contract can only pave the way for a new breach of contract involving the introduction of day-limits for workers. Is this the government's hidden agenda for the sickness pay scheme? Finally, does the representative Woie Duesund of the Christian People's Party feel comfortable in being responsible for the obvious breach of contract that the Government has now committed, and which may have consequences for many workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e656	I believe that the representative Hildeng must read the program to the Christian People's Party better. Because we've gone away from the desire to introduce Karen's days, because we see that it would only help in the short-term absence. What's the problem today is long-term absence, and that's why we have no plans to put Karen's days back on the agenda. That's the long-term absence we want down, and that's why we've concluded an IA agreement. What I'm least comfortable with is that sick leave has increased rather than decreased, as the intention was with the IA agreement. We also have a proposal that the employer should have a greater share of responsibility. It has been put at risk, but it says something about how important it is to do something about the workplace itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e663	I think that the Christian People's Party and the SV on the way can agree that, in the case of sick and disabled people, we should focus as much as possible on measures that facilitate and stimulate people's return and participation in the business. Temporary unpaid pay is a mechanism that would contribute to it, and SV was to introduce it. However, a remarkable feature of that arrangement is that the child supplement here should be significantly lower than by ordinary disability pension. We propose once again that this be equated. The Christian People's Party is against it. My question is: does the representative Woie Duesund believe that the need for the economy of families with children stimulate sick and disabled people to return to activity and to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e673	I think the most important thing we can do for those who have problems is get them back to work. There are many measures in the budget to achieve this. In the case of the child supplement itself in the case of temporary unpaid pay, it is currently the same as one has in the case of rehabilitation and re-employment benefits, i.e. 17 DKK per year. day(s) When you get a full disability pension, the child supplement is tested. This could mean that someone doesn't get it at all. I see that it can be small sometimes, and we've pointed that out. That is why we have also said that the system should be evaluated, precisely in order to see if you should do something about the child supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e682	The Christian People's Party has been committed to increasing recruitment and competence in the care and care sectors, and in the previous period the Party presented a Document No. Eight proposals in this context. I would like to ask the representative of the Christian People's Party why we are not now on a proposal from the Central Party for an education grant to increase the competence of the health and care sector, among other things. in line with what the Norwegian Association of Nursing Nurses has requested, the state budget for 2005. Another important scheme that could improve the situation and stimulate more people in the care sector is a rotation scheme for these staff in line with shiftwork. What will the Christian People's Party per. today to enable such a system to be put in place as soon as possible? There's nothing on that in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e691	It is an important question posed by the representative of Luttvold. We had not received a qualitatively good treatment in the hospitals if we had not had good professionals. We have our own strategic action plan to recruit professionals, and it turns out it works. We have also introduced the permanent reform, which shows that the vast majority of municipalities have now become fixed. In the case of a doctor's tour, we have, among other things, to see if they can also have a tour of the local hospitals. What we're missing are dentists. One of the goals of having a major review of dental care is to look at how we will be better at recruiting that particular profession. Otherwise, we have started a new study in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e704	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e707	The centre party disagrees with the majority of its priorities in the social and health sectors. That is why we want to promote our own draft budget with our own framework. We believe that, in Norway today, more resources should be used to improve health and social services than is provided in the 2005 budget. Health policy is the most important welfare policy issue we can work with. Good health provides safety, well-being and the ability to realise itself. For those with poor health, who have chronic disorders and disabilities, it is important that there is an auxiliaries that are good enough to relieve pain and minimise disability through organisation and assistance. The centre party will promote good health policy and prevention rather than repair. However, when disease and injury occur, it is important that treatment and rehabilitation take place quickly, so that further damage and disease development can be prevented. We still see that this is the case in many contexts, not least in psychiatry. Life-style diseases are increasing today and need to face more health-promoting behaviour and prevention, which I will come back to. We are concerned about the changes and restructurings that are taking place in the specialist health service today, and in health companies. This may lead to a lack of equivalence for all when it comes to health treatment. The objective of offering equivalent services to all citizens, irrespective of, inter alia: place of residence, economic and social status should be the clear objective of all. Today it doesn't look like it is. When food departments and emergency services are laid down and the distance from emergency services is increasing, the population is becoming insecure. All of the demonstration trains and torches we've had are an expression of this. The distance to hospitals may be crucial for the issue of life or death, especially where there is insufficient ambulance service, either on land, to water or in the air. This is one of the things we think is the most important of the hospital structure today. We can see that hospitals and health businesses still have major economic operating problems. The figures vary somewhat, and in today's Health Norway it is very difficult to get in and get exact information about health companies, but a place between 2 and 2 and 1/2 billion kroner seems to be the operating deficit this year. There are several health professionals who have warned that if the economy is not radically remedied, there can be a lower level of treatment. The dismissal of staff, the closure of bed posts, departments and treatment services, and structural changes that could lead to compartmentalisation and centralisation, do not provide good interaction services. On the other hand, they split up such interaction services at the local hospitals, and that, in our view, gives an undesirable and unacceptable development. After the government budget was presented, the Managing Director of Health West said: If we are to create a budget in Health West on the basis of the government's budget proposal, we will put the entire West into flames. It's very clear speech and should be a think-tank for everyone who's going to give money to health companies. We fear that a bad economy can make emergency preparedness in particular very weakened. Now, if we centralize, divisionalize and sections too strongly, we're going to rage some of the good values that are created in the Norwegian health care system, which was also one of the main points that formed the basis for the health reform. The weakening of this health system can become an animal-acquired experience, and it can be very difficult to properly rehabilitate it. We opposed the health reform and the health enterprise system. But as we have tried to practice the policy since this was adopted by a majority in the United Kingdom, we have perhaps been the best people who have tried to organise the framework conditions for health businesses and specialist health services. We have proposed increased resources, we have proposed indebtedness – and also on this occasion we propose it. We want to improve the operating conditions for 2005 by adding SEK 1.5 billion more to health businesses, while wanting to improve liquidity now by adding NOK 2 billion more to the final age of 2004. I don't fully understand the calculation of, among other things. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who says that this will not improve health businesses. Obviously, it'll bring improvement. This will lead to an improvement that will, first and foremost, make health businesses better equipped on 1 January 2005 to carry out their tasks. If we had both improved the liquidity and extended the operating framework by adding SEK 1.5 billion, which the Centre party alone is proposing, health businesses would have been better equipped to cope with the budgetary balance that the majority also imposes on health businesses now in 2005, a budgetary balance sheet and a balance sheet requirement that we would have pushed until 2006. And then at the same time, we see that against that requirement, the government parties and the Progress Party are already running a relaxation, saying that on special criteria, you might have to relax on the balance sheet requirement for Health South. What kind of clear and predictable signals are there? And is it that we are going to see more such relaxations and exceptions from this requirement in the future in 2005? We are pleased that the Government is repealing part of the distribution of subsidies to the health regions that we have had and that we also pointed out in the budgetary procedure last year. So now Health West and Health Mid-Norway will have the special sub-financing that they've had. We believe that there is a need for more transparency and transparency in the healthcare business system. Fortunately, we have gained more and more support for that. We also hope that health businesses will be able to be subject to better popular governance in the long term, and the Centre Party will come back to it. I also want to take up another principal thing that we have been doing throughout the time health care companies have worked for, and it is that we will also now point out that significant changes in the treatment offer within hospitals and specialist health care must be submitted to the Stortinget for treatment before any changes can be made. I want to hear what the Minister of Health thinks about these things. Local hospitals in particular should establish better and closer cooperation with the primary health service. We know that today's bedtime is irresponsiblely short in some contexts, and we think that there should be a different printing procedure than what is now foreseen by the fact that the patient should no longer be fully processed, but ready for printing. We believe that this must be particularly true for older people who are ill, who often suffer more, and who need more diagnosis and a wide range of treatment when they are in the hospital. We believe that the funding mechanisms for this patient category need to be improved, and the need for this large and growing group of patients needs to be taken more into account and better calculated in terms of future capacity needs. We know that there is a need for between 2 000 and 2 500 new hospital beds in 2020. The representative Alvheim spoke about the need for increased hospital capacity and more beds. I share that view. But we also have to be careful to have a capacity at our hospitals and in the specialist health service that can meet the older wave that comes in 15-20 years. In this context, it is also important to strengthen the level of primary health services and the level of care in municipalities. The Centre Party considers that this should be done on a general basis with a better local economy. At the same time, in this draft budget, we have clear proposals to strengthen both medical staff and dental staff and also to strengthen staff in the field of care and care, among others. with an education grant, as I mentioned in my reply to the Christian People's Party, and by facilitating more attractive work in the health and care sector, by providing development ladders and career paths to increase competence and to develop as employees in this sector. Rehabilitation provision is too poor in many contexts in Norway. We in the Centre Party are amazed that no more want to give this stronger priority and put in place a policy towards the training institutions that makes these have predictable and good conditions. What's happening now, by freezing the reimbursement system from last year, gives a little breathing room, but it doesn't give more resources and does not correct the injustice. We are currently using a lot of resources on expensive medical treatment, but we are not completing this work with good enough rehabilitation. One might say that the Norwegian health system is an incomplete piece of community work in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e751	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e754	After hearing the contributions of the representative of Lutvold, it's almost incredible that there are actually living people in this country. I have not heard a worse prophecy of doom – here is absolutely all wrong. Not one positive thing manages the representative Glutvold to elaborate on the Norwegian health and social services in his speech. You should almost have had a premium to be able to talk for ten minutes without drawing out a single positive thing. We are in this situation today, after the hospital reform, that more patients have never been treated in Norway. The queues are at full speed down. We know that the Center Party was opposed to the health reform and has done everything they can to counter the health reform. My question to the representative of Luttvold is: does the representative of Luttvold at all not see any positive things in the Norwegian health system, which one can get the impression of his posts?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e761	I think with my post, I've led a tradition from the Progress Party further, by being critical of some of the things that don't work. If we were just to stand here and shame each other, how did the world and Norwegian health care go forward? I think the representative Nesvik can look up in newspapers that we get here in the house, and almost every day find examples of the things I've pointed out, in principle and without mentioning concrete examples. What I think is one of the points is that we don't hang around in the way these things are presented, so that we see individual things -- we have to see it in a big whole. I believe that something is going wrong with our specialist health service through the health company scheme if we don't make sure we have enough resources. We have not countered the health enterprise reform. We have pointed out weaknesses in it, but we have created a better framework for health businesses and the reform than the Progress Party has over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e770	Ola D. Glötvold is right in that he gives a description of the health care system this year that is completely consistent with the description the progress party had last year. But it is clear that the agreement has solved a number of problems, which means that the Progress Party no longer looks so dark on the situation. We all have to be happy about that. With regard to the Center Party, this proposal to grant is renewed, and I do not know how many billions to the hospitals in this year's budget. What I want to ask Ola D. Joyful is whether he does not see the problem related to the fact that there is no greater demand for the use of resources in the specialist health service. We have seen wage developments, among other things. for doctors who have been such that, on average over a two-year period, they have received NOK 100000 in salary increases. Directors have been seen who have obtained significant agreements, including pension agreements, in millions of dollars. In sum, this may have been the main reason why the deficits have become as large as they have. Does it not seem Joyful that if, without being specific to the requirements, you only grant more, you may increase the tendency to misuse resources under the direction of health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e777	I can see that the representative, Ballo, is somewhat surprised that we want to give money to the health service. After all, Ballo is the person who grants the least to health businesses, because he transfers money primarily from the Swedish National Agency to health companies and thus gets large numbers. But I see the problems that Ballo here points out. We've pointed it out before. We have said that it should go to patient treatment, and in this budget, together with the SV, we have a good proposal that we need to assess the pay framework for health businesses in relation to state budgeting to enter the individual enterprise and be disposed of there. Then the Central Party has a proposal to make demands and point out the problems, which I can't see that SV is in, and it says that the maximum pension in public should not exceed 8 G. I am calling for support from SV to that very proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e786	The representative of Lutvold was in his post within the framework of the specialist services. I think all in this room are some of the tough conditions, but when a person listens to the production of Lutvold, and when a read article from the Center Party in local viewers and in regional ways around, it seems as if a local hospital should be placed on a tight arm, and fewer and fewer patients will be treated. So I wonder if Glötvold can give me examples of local hospitals that were laid down after the new health reform, and whether he can tell if there are fewer or more patients who have been treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e792	I said I don't want to go into concrete examples. I think we have to take the lead here. We know that several hospitals, including UNN in Tromsø, says they have to quit so and so many – I mean it was 180. We know that hospital records and treatment services in several hospitals have been downgraded and removed, which means that the interaction chains are not going to be good enough. We also know that we have a declassification of local hospitals that allows it to be a mixture of the one-eye-half-line service and a district medical centre. It does not, in our opinion, provide sufficient safety, especially in the case of emergency response. I referred to the Managing Director of Health Vest, Osmundnes' own region, where there has been a lot of concern – not least in Sogn and Fjordane, where the Executive Director says that if we go to the Government's budget proposal now, it would be like setting fire to the entire West, in relation to the structure that we will then have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e797	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e800	For the Left, welfare policy is primarily about giving all people the opportunity to master the everyday life they themselves experience, by allowing everyone to have a greater chance of solving the challenges they face – either jointly or separately. We must dare to let go of the great and standardized solutions that concern how people should live their good lives, for the benefit of what suits each individual. Left wants a strong public welfare state, but, at the same time, a welfare policy that dares to give priority to those who need welfare the most, rather than spending large resources transferring money between the many who are working and doing well. The left believes that the co-operation government's proposal for the state budget is a good proposal to target good welfare arrangements to those who need the most help. Being able to handle yourself by having a job and by being able to do something is one of the most important things for us. We are very pleased that the Co-operation Board has started work on reforming different systems, so that a better combination of education, work and social security can be achieved. When you get sick, it is important that the public auxiliaries set up as early as possible to see what can be done to get back to work. Coordination of welfare management (SATS) is a key instrument for better happiness in finding measures that are adapted to each individual situation. But welfare services cannot solve this alone, they can only contribute and facilitate. This is the most important thing in the world of work. Therefore, the employer has a great responsibility to make sure that the most people can be at work. Left looks at each individual human being as unique and different. We want a society of tolerance, justice and equivalency. A social liberal will never say that equality is the same as justice. Human beings are different and want different solutions. Welfare must always be based on respect for the integrity of the individual and, to a far greater extent, on the individual’s wishes and needs. Many people can't deal with everyday life without rushing. Most people don't want to live like that. During this period, the proceeds of the wasteland are increased by nearly half a billion dollars. One has reorganized the auxiliaries with one goal for the eye: individual rehabilitating. Since 2000, we have had a doubling in the number of people receiving medically assisted rehabilitation. In the draft budget, there is a strengthening of local authorities’ efforts to address drug users, as well as strengthening labour market measures aimed at long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. Many drug addicts have severe health problems, and a strengthening of low-threshold measures is absolutely necessary to provide them with a better health supply. Now that we have injection rooms, this too can help to help drug users with different health options, but also other help they need. The left is that the drug addict should receive treatment without any delay when he or she asks for it. We might have to start looking at the different systems. We have managed to strengthen the health burden of this with medically assisted rehabilitation and with detoxification, but it remains to facilitate good social networks such as housing and labour supply. There we have a huge challenge in terms of how to prioritize the money in the next period. In order to implement the mental health escalation plan in 2005, the Government proposes to set aside approximately SEK 4.3 billion. We are thus in the process of implementing the agreed escalation plan. The action plan has provided the psychiatric services with significant resources in recent years, but the user group consists of people who need a wide range of services, from emergency care to life-long health, care, bus and activity services. The challenge is to develop a flexible supply across professionals and care levels. For the Left, it is important that we do not build up treatment facilities until the municipalities have built up future provision. We are pleased that the Minister of Health has expressed the same with our health regions. Never have it been treated more patients in Norwegian hospitals, and never have the waiting time been shorter. For the left, it's decisive that we have a good and equivalent health supply for everyone who needs it. In the budget agreement with the Progress Party, one increase in the number of hospitals by 500 million. kr. I'm glad one in this deal found room to give Health West 100 million. kr extra to get back to some of the slices that you have today. As I said earlier in my article, the left wants a welfare policy that dares to give priority to those who need the most well-being, rather than spending large resources distributing money to the many who are working and doing well. The draft budget of the co-operation management is taking a step in the right direction. Finally, of course, we support all the proposals that the Right and Christian People's Party are behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e834	That's understood. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e839	The representative, Mr Vihovde, put great emphasis in his speech on the challenge we face in prioritising how we should use public funds, and stated that instead of wide universal schemes, the Left will focus on targeted actions, targeting those who need it the most. During this major period, the government has given about a quarter of its GDP. $20 billion in tax bills, most of all for those who have the most from before. Does Mr Vihovde and Mr Left really believe that this is a targeted use of public funds for those who need it most and who need it most?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e846	If you want something to distribute, you also have to create something. Providing tax incentives to increase value creation is important if we are to have good welfare arrangements and money to distribute. In fact, the government has taken a lot of steps to meet those who have the least, by targeting the measures. It has been linked to reforms to see how measures in the labour market work to reduce the growth of expenditure in the population. When the number of sick people and the disability has increased significantly in the last few years, a few steps must be taken to stop spending, so that more people who are ill can get help to get back to work early. I actually think that's the most important thing. We need reforms to meet the enormous growth of expenditure within the population. I think all the political parties, whether they're in government or in opposition, are forced to watch.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e853	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e856	Social and health budgets are characterised by the same thing as the other areas: the government's approach to reducing Community expenditure is there in order to have room for tax relief very few need. If this was just a one-year incident, we could live with it, but the serious thing is the repetition over four years. The consequences of this are an incipient attack on the welfare state, where the community will contribute less, and the individual of us more – a fateful arrangement for those who need the community security network. The positive thing in this year’s budget in the field of health is the follow-up of the psychiatric escalation plan, but it is also a scheme on which any government is obliged. However, there is quite an unacceptable waiting time for treatment, especially for children and young people. Early onset of skilled treatment is often essential to prevent severe and long-term or permanent mental illness. This is serious. The SINTEF report SAMDATA Psychiatric health protection in 2003 demonstrates that hospitalisation is faster than the construction of daily places in district psychiatric centres, DPS. The productivity of treatment providers has fallen this year, not up. Unfortunately, there's an increase in the number of forced entry. That is a serious warning. The SINTEF report also shows that there are 1 000 fewer bed places compared with the construction of new day-care centres in the DPS. This is serious when you also know that the municipalities have not been able to build up their offers in line with reductions in the daily services of the specialist health service. The so-called double diagnosis, i.e. The combination of severe psychiatric diagnosis combined with drug problems is an increasing problem. International research shows that both diseases must be treated at the same time. There is a major challenge for health businesses, which require resources, the creation of new offers and research in a competent professional environment. This must be taken seriously by the Minister of Health, and this must be taken seriously by regional health firms in the further development of patient services. We need increased capacity here, and we need to develop good trade unions. The working party and I believe that we need a new assessment of the depreciation rules for hospitals and equipment. A depreciation scheme that does not enable hospitals to renew equipment, maintain buildings and build new ones when required is not acceptable. Now the train goes to include a psychiatry building in Phase 2 in the extension of St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim. It is with regret that I have to record that the government parties and the Progress Party do not support this. The Ministry's justification, as it says in the draft budget, is directly alarming. There it is claimed that there are no professional arguments for integrating psychiatry and somatics. This I think the department is almost alone to mean in this world! My colleague, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, has, in his contribution, thoroughly addressed the lack of funding for the hospitals, so I leave it to myself. The Labour Party believes that health businesses need to strengthen their legitimacy and social contacts, even though positive improvements are now taking place around the country. The people, patients, regional and local politicians need to be able to make it easier for them to reach governments with their views. We therefore believe that local and regional authorities should have the opportunity to propose candidates to the boards at all levels of health enterprises. Regional health enterprises and health businesses should also establish formalised contacts at regional and local level as soon as possible, in accordance with the model we see established in Health Nord. I think the training institutions are in a very uncertain financial situation, which is reinforced by the fact that the government parties and the Progress Party transfer the financial responsibility to the regional health companies, but this is a case that has been lost. However, the Ministry must assume responsibility for a review of the financial instruments in order to ensure both a predictable economy and a basis for professional development. A minimum measure must be that equal treatment arrangements are reimbursed equally. With regard to the development of new institutions or offers, I believe that the Department and healthcare companies need to look at the good experience they have had in cooperating with heavy patient organisations. Then I would like to inform you that we want to make a proposal for a transfer proposal. That is proposal No. 18, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, which is included on page 111 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e882	It was nice to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e885	It is as difficult for me as it is for everyone else in this room to draw an entirely comprehensive objective picture of the Norwegian health care system during a 10-minute post. But I'm at least recording that the United Nations has identified our health care system as one of the best in the world, measured in resource use, level, availability, etc. And there's a lot that's good in Norwegian health care. That is probably a point, as the representative Lutvold so far said, that at least we have to spend some of our time looking at the shortcomings that might be, and trying to do something about it. Because there's a lot that's good. It's a bunch of employees doing a very solid job every day. There are a lot of directors and directors who do a lot of good. Despite that, we read almost daily about individual cases that obviously have not been part of the very good offer. In this post, I would like to quote from a long letter I have received from a mother – I get too many letters from relatives who have their own health care, not least in the psychiatry and the ru area. It says in this letter: ‘I have a son who is a heavy drug addict who has gone on what is possible in recent years. He has been inside for detoxification several times, and was at the greenhouse for about 6 months. Also had medical tapering with medical follow-up. He cracked after finishing the program as it was not made a follow-up scheme. Later, other doctors were contacted, but no one wanted to stand up for him. I was told by the local doctor that he has worn out two doctors and can therefore not expect more help." I'm going to try to give my analysis as I see it after six months in this job, what's my vision for next year's budget for the health service we're going to try to emancipate, and point out some of the measures that I think are necessary to achieve our goals in terms of the government's priorities, and as I can see from the setting, the priorities of the Storting are also, what has to do with psychiatry, what to do with the ruby area, and what to do with chroniclers. What is absolutely certain is that part of the health care services is often not good enough, as it seems to me in every way, for those who need it the most. We have a very good offer, I would say, within e.g. a relatively narrow case as snoring operations. There we have six to seven weeks' waiting time, and that's of course very good for those who need it, nothing wrong said about it. But others don't get help for serious mental and drug problems, and I ask the question, is it maybe because it's within the psychiatry and the ru area that they don't get this? We very often discover that these two patient groups do not get the home services they should have had. At my discretion, the healthcare system is not totally diagnostically neutral, if I can be allowed to use such a word. If a man of my age gets heart disease, he will not be met in connection with the hospitalization that he might have to weigh too much and have trimmed too little. But the son who was mentioned in this letter, he was therefore met with the fact that he has worn out two doctors. Another part of my analysis is that we can't in any way interact as we should. At a good restaurant it is not as it appeared from the revisions often before, that this is «not my table». I no longer experience that in a good restaurant. But it's not uncommon that in the context of printing, at the start of the dialogue, it says: this is no longer my patient. Too many people experience it. Another factor is that in Norwegian health services we do not take the situation of the relatives sufficiently inwards. One day we're placed in a white bed with people in white clothes around us, the next day, where we're almost as sick as the day before, only the relatives at home might have to do a job. Another point in the interaction is the fact that one concentrates on body parts and to a lesser extent on the human being as a whole. We are first and foremost an entire human being. I may not think that is sufficiently reflected in our healthcare system either. "My hope is that my son can get help," this mother writes. My hope and vision for the next year is that both the son and the mother will have a better everyday life, that we will have a health care system that does not reject the sickest, but precisely prioritises those who are sickest, that we should have a health care service that offers an equivalent level to how one is met, regardless of the diagnosis one should have, that we should have a health care system that offers a safe hand that does not escape when going from one body to another, from one level to the other, from one institution to another, that we should have a health care system that, to a greater extent at least, sees a whole human being and not just individuals and parts of the body in isolation, and, as I said, that we should have a health care system and an aid device that looks at the relatives as part of the solution and not as part of the problem. What measures should be taken to achieve some of this? The main priority, as I see it, is related to psychiatry, and then in particular to two groups in psychiatry: the most seriously ill and children and young people. And even though we now have a psychiatry plan that is definitely going to be fulfilled, as the Storting has foreseen, it's not enough, as I think, to give patients who are in the psychiatry, an offer that will be neutral in relation to resource efforts towards the somatic environment. For what it all is, when you look at the annual growth of psychiatry and somatics in the years that have gone by, the naked figures show that it is not such that there has been a relatively higher growth in psychiatry than in the somatic environment. There's a lot of good reasons for that, and a lot of bad, or that's not good to explain. I feel very convinced that within psychiatry it will be necessary to put particular emphasis on the municipal offerings. That's where the people eventually live, and most people will get their treatment. I also have a great deal of faith in what is now being realized within the DPS, and not least what is going on on the ambulatory team, that we are going to get ambulance teams that are also often going to be able to act instead of the police. I can't imagine anything more stigmatizing than the police coming into a residential area and taking along a mentally ill person, where the explosion has occurred in the home. I think, unfortunately, it will sit for generations. Here's the definite thing to deal with. Russ and drug treatment will be one of the three main priorities for the next year of the order document to be sent just over the new year. My idea is that the order document that goes out and the business meeting should highlight very strongly the need for economic resource allocation to what is the main priorities. And then it won't be useful to come at the end of the year with some explanation of why you've increased more on resource input in the somatic environment, whether the ISF is 0 or 100 pst. As far as health businesses are concerned, I just want to say something very short, for the time being it's going so fast. I had a meeting with all the boards of regional health companies yesterday. Clearly, there are some challenges to the special by increasing the ISF share. However, it is clear from St.prp. No 1 what is assumed activity level until next year, which I have exchanged letters about with the Storting, so that has not changed. Another thing that will be a main focus in next year's governance paper will be related to patient rights, which have been passed in the form of the law, and which to a very large extent are not complied with. How are we going to help regional health businesses to follow this up, and not least to make the boards responsible for them? In the new year's business meeting, I am going to instruct all five regional health care companies to set up internal audits, so that the checks can be carried out as they are in other organisations with budgets totaling NOK 65 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e921	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e925	I think this was an interesting article. And if there's one area there's a very broad consensus about in this room, it's just wanted to give priority to the psychiatry and the drug field. Then we don't have to argue about the framework now, and we don't have to argue about 60-40 or 40-60, but I want to ask the Minister of Health, of pure interest, to elaborate on how he will now make demands to health businesses. For the most exciting thing, the Minister of Health will demand, for example: increasing patient treatment, setting targets for reduction in waiting lists and for the number of people in treatment, or seeing the Minister of Health move on by demanding a share of financial resources in relation to psychiatry and the drug field?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e935	With the small reservation that Stortinget was going to deal with the budget today, I gave a talk to the boards of the regional health companies yesterday, where I suggested what could be outlined by the order document and the corporate meeting that we are going to have in January. What is definite is that there will be very clear requirements, which are easily verifiable, and which are both easy and easy for regional health businesses to deal with. And what is required, and which will be my demand, is that there must be additional resources beyond what is shown by the historically high level of funding we have proposed for the psychiatry, to re-establish the fact that the psychiatry has been under-prioritized. Let me refer to the director of Ullevål Hospital, who was present at yesterday's meeting. He said that the psychiatry has been underpriority for decades. And so said a former politician from the Municipality of Oslo who was responsible for this. There will be completely solar, easily back-controllable demands for what is to be allocated by resources to the psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e944	Health Förde has decided to shut down the surgical emergency response at Nordfjordeid Hospital, but the hospital is still required to perform elective surgery, both soft tissue surgery and orthopaedic surgery. This is not professionally sound in my opinion. My question to the Minister of Health is: Will the Minister of Health ensure that this decision is included in the Enterprise Meeting, to possibly reverse the decision taken? Because you can't actually perform elective surgery in a hospital if you don't have a standby in the hospital for the patients inside.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e949	In principle, there is a very demanding balance between this hospital reform as organised, with five regional health enterprises and 30 underlying health enterprises, whose primary task is not to determine what to do in the Norwegian health system, but how to do it. It would be almost impossible for me to try professionally to review all the decisions taken on how to carry out what is a responsible, adequate and good health service. Sometimes, however, decisions will be so far-reaching that they will be brought to the table of the Minister of Health. It has adopted the Stortinget, as demonstrated by health company law. It comes from what things are going in. I want to be very careful with initially involving other matters in order to try them out if possible, without therefore having said that I have answered explicitly the question of the matter in question, which I do not know in detail enough about here I am now standing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e956	The councils described in their article the contents of a letter from a mother, and I think it was a wise approach the council had. But what is a dilemma is that the consequence of the policy pursued by the current government – now it is not certain that it would have been different if it had been a different government – is a very strong focus on the hospital economy and in completely different areas than what is necessarily about psychiatry, which is about drugs – which is about helping just those groups that should have been helped, and which the mother, through her letter to the Council of State, expresses the need for help. This situation has been described in newspaper articles, e.g. in the Newspaper, in the VG – and in the Evening Post today, where it says: «The highly psychotic patient was so aggressive that the staff at Ullevål experienced him as a threat. To make him calm, he was sent home." This situation has been described over so long that in SV we now experience that there is a need for a thorough review of this, that the Council of State should give the Stortinge an explanation of how to control the situation. Can the Council of State do that — simply give an account to the Grand Council of the situation in psychiatry this new year?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e970	What's the starting point for the real question, that of giving an explanation, is the sum of individual cases that we've seen in many institutions. Several of them have been linked to Ullevål. So the question is, can you give a statement in the Stortinget about how to look at the situation in Norwegian psychiatry? It is clear that – to put it that way – there is no government council that wants to continue in the job that is opposed to a request from the Stortinget to make a statement, much less serious than the situation in Norwegian psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e977	The Minister of Health and Health was involved in the field of interaction in his speech, and I would like to address it in relation to the situation in Oslo, where there is clearly a need for better coordination and cooperation – if there is a will, interaction. This is primarily important and correct in terms of obtaining the best possible offer to patients, while improving resource use. That's where I think the Health Minister and I agree. The Minister of Health is the owner and the top authority of these hospitals and can instruct and direct through his letter of governance to the health companies and to what is active health activities also within the borders of Oslo City. What will the Minister of Health possibly do, and what can he do, without bringing together the Rikshospitalet and the Radium Hospital, and without putting in place the leadership to bring together the health regions of East and South, in order to achieve better cooperation and patient treatment in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e986	The question was what I can do, and what I want to do. Then the simple answer is that I can do what I want to do – and so will I. In the business meeting, which will be one of the first days of January, there will be a list of a good number of areas of action, where regional health establishments will be required to cooperate and to coordinate themselves internally in a different way than has been the case. It is quite natural that in the early stages of this reform efforts have been made to seek out forms of cooperation. These are tough organizations that were supposed to sit down. I believe that after three years we have to say that the time has come to take some action to make the necessary clarifications between the companies. I mean, investment is a key. If you look at the border we have between east and south in this city, and look at what investments have been made, and, perhaps even more importantly, look at which investments have not been made, and what is prioritised, cf. What are the main priorities, psychiatry, might have been a good idea to allocate resources differently — and coordinated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e993	Although the Minister of Health did not affect this with depreciation, and thus the investment regime, directly in his intervention, he was somewhat concerned with it in his last response to Glow violence. I have to challenge the Minister of Health a little bit in this area, because it is a central element of hospital operations. If a reader correctly reads the draft budget, there is reason for concern if it is that one imposes an investment regime that does not respect the values of equipment and hospital buildings that we actually have today, and the need for renewal. Question will then be, in so far as it is simple enough, how will the Minister of Health ensure a level of investment based at least on current values, in equipment and in buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1000	In the operating accounts of enterprises, depreciation is charged to the operating budget in so far as it is in the general financial statements of an enterprise. The most important thing to balance expenditure and income is to have a flow of income appropriate to the level of expenditure. As far as I am aware, this is about approx. One billion dollars in the difference in depreciation, and I think it was $4 billion that was the technical value, based on the values of what you had of technical equipment. It's about taking approx. 3/4 of that over time. Now it is the case that buildings and technical equipment are depreciated on average over a period of 30 to 40 years. So let me say that even though some directors of some health care companies are worried about this, I think that's one of the areas they'll worry about at least initially. It's going to be quite a number of years in time before it turns out that they have a trick of right in what they claim. However, I believe that the level at which it is applied is more than enough to renew what we need to run the Norwegian healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1008	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1011	In my opinion, this year's state budget treatment has been done in a clean and transparent manner. One must be able to say to a great extent that this must be attributed to the fact that the government parties and the Progress Party reached agreement, which both parties can stand behind. There is reason to stress that the proposal for a State budget in the area of the Social Committee currently under consideration has undergone a significant improvement in relation to what was the starting point when the Government promoted the State budget. When the equity stake is not increased from NOK 1550 to NOK 2 500, as the government originally suggested, but instead only regulated by what can be said to be the wage and price increase, to be NOK 1585, this must be very good. This is significantly better than that, for example. The Labour Party was able to negotiate with the budget for the current year. The Progress Party is also pleased that one has managed not to introduce an excess of $45 for physiotherapy for those who fall under the diagnostic list. It has been particularly important for the Progress Party for many years to keep the level of self-payment in the healthcare system at the lowest possible level, all the time this must be seen to be a tax on disease. There is one thing in this budget that could in many ways be a milestone in Norwegian policy. It is the fact that the Progress Party is now getting an impact on the development of its own report on senior policy. This is something that more organisations and individuals have called for over a certain period of time, including among others. The name is Ynge Högensen and Carl I. Hagen. In this area, too, the Progress Party has taken a very important step forward. It is very important that senior policy is not confused with the care of the elderly and the needs that arise. Senior policy is something quite different. This refers to the importance of looking at the issue of exclusion for older workers, final packages, early retirement for people who themselves want to be longer at work, social security schemes, etc. This will be a very important work that I both hope and expect the Government to take seriously, that this work will be undertaken quickly to streamline this order from Stortinget. Unfortunately, one will not help but bring forward a very unfortunate problem that has arisen as a result of a government amendment to the reimbursement scheme for medicines for patients with lung disease COPD. The government proposes in the budget that the medicines used for this patient group, which are currently refunded under the regulation § 9, should be refunded on an individual application under § 10(a). This means that all patients need to see a specialist to get a prescription. This must then be forwarded to the Rikstrygdeverket, which will then deal with the application before any authorisation or refusal is granted. If this is adopted, there is reason to believe that many thousands of patients will be affected by a bureaucratic and time-consuming system, which at least I fear will not be able to bring anything good with it. There is reason to fear that COPD patients may sometimes be much worse off, for example. The specialist lung coverage is very variable. There is also reason to note that there are some major imbalances between districts as to whether there is a pulmonary specialist or not. Furthermore, there may also be a situation in which the number of applications for reimbursement is so high that there will be long waiting lists and a long treatment period for each application. For the sake of the COLS patients, I am therefore pleased that the Socialist Left Party here today has announced that they will join the proposal of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre not to transfer medicines from general reimbursement to individual reimbursement in the case of the COLS treatment, as proposed in the budget. On 1 May next year, married and cohabiting pensioners will receive another increase in the basic pension thanks to the fact that in their agreement with the government parties a few years ago, the Progress Party was able to make an improvement in this area. This occurred during the budgetary procedure in the autumn of 2002. However, the Progress Party has always been in favour of the principle that all pensioners receive their full and just basic pension, and will therefore already at this stage signal that, on a later occasion, we will propose a further step up, so that we finally reach the goal of also getting married and cohabiting pensioners to have their entire and full basic pension paid. Through the negotiations between the Progress Party and the Government Parties in the Committee, a number of changes have been made to the trade budget following the adoption of the framework. It has been moved on a few, but nevertheless very important millions for those who get these allocated. A majority has also been created for some important proposals which will oblige the Government to do a fundamental work in some very important areas. In this context, it is important to note that a clear majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, asks the Government, in the context of the revised National Budget for 2005, to consider approving ReumaSol as a publicly recognised training institution subject to one of the regional health establishments. This could result in far more than the case per. Today, it will be possible to benefit from a treatment stay in this institution in Spain and an affordable proportion. It is important to facilitate the postponement of the youth debut age in the case of alcohol for as long as possible. If we are to do this, it is important that we communicate with youth in such a way that the youth takes the message inwards and respects it. As the Progress Party sees it, fear propaganda and adult-child communication have not been very successful, rather on the contrary. It is therefore gratifying that the Progress Party is now taking advantage of a proposal to grant 2.5 million. kr to a youth-oriented campaign to be developed by young people, with the aim of reducing the consumption of alcohol among young people, with the aim of having their debut age at risk. The campaign may also be directed against drug use in general if desired, as the Progress Party sees it. Overall, next year's government budget has become a budget that will provide the basis for a better society also for those who need it the most. There is a lot of good in the budget, although, of course, there is also a lot that the Progress Party might want to change. In this context, we will also mention that there is now a significant strengthening of peer work, so that large patient categories can benefit from the experience of others in their disease. The best thing today would have been, of course, if the alternative budget of the Progress Party could be adopted, as it emerges from the financial situation. But what is to be adopted today is the second best. The Progress Party has changed a part of the budget profile so that those with high health costs and the need for other assistance, for various reasons, now have a better starting point to deal with their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1034	There are few things that make me so upset as to hear and read about tens of thousands of children living in families with such poor advice that they have to be counted as poor. The TV2 Online Newspaper reported two days ago that applications for Christmas packages during these days flow into the Saviour's slumber station. ‘Many single-parent families come to us when the refrigerator becomes empty. By Christmas they should be out earlier, so we can plan something extra for the kids," says Marit Solli, who is the head of the slum station, to the TV2 Net Newspaper. This is a harsh sentence on this government's perhaps highest profiled mainly: the fight against poverty. Honor be the Salvation Army, the City Mission of the Church, and other volunteers who tread and make a great effort for people who have it difficult, both in connection with Christmas and the rest of the year. But most of this should be totally unnecessary in a country as rich as Norway. What makes me equally upset is the answer given by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to this challenge. She informs Nettavisen that the Ministry has sent out a circular to the municipalities that they need to consider additional measures during special holidays, such as Christmas. She also says that some families have an extra big challenge. Here, then, the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs admits that many families have extra big challenges in relation to their economy. But the only concrete government can come up with is to send out a circular to the municipalities where they are asked to assess an extra amount for the poor for Christmas. Yes, some families have great challenges, and these challenges have them every day of the year, not just Christmas. It is of course good that the municipalities do what they can to ensure that everyone can have a worthy Christmas. But it's not in this way that a eliminates poverty, neither among children nor adults. And it's at this point that this government has failed. Very much indicates that in the three years of government there has been no less poor in our country. No, much indicates that there have been more. The next year's poverty response on the part of the Government shows an increase of 255 million. kr. It is, to put it mildly, a modest investment, especially compared to the fact that it is given a lot, many times as much money to strengthen the private economy of those who have a solid economy from before. If we are to succeed in eradicating poverty in Norway, and that is the clear objective of SV, much more comprehensive and broad measures are needed. The SV's objective in general economic policy and in social policy is social cohesion, fairer distribution and, as I just said, the elimination of poverty. Through the priorities of the social budget, the SV makes two important strategies for achieving these objectives visible. The first is that more of those who are outside the profession because of illness, injury or other reasons will have the opportunity to return to work. At the same time, we must create a working life that does not run out even more. The second strategy is that the arrangements and benefits established for persons who, for various reasons, are unable to support themselves through their own work shall be such as to provide a good basis for economic security and a decent life. Both of these strategies are essential in order to succeed in combating poverty. In recent years, we have seen a dramatic increase in the number of people who have been out of work and who have been transferred to different schemes – sick pay, rehabilitation, disability pension. It is to counteract this development that the agreement on a more inclusive working life was concluded in due course between the social partners and the state. The efforts under the IA Agreement have taken time to deliver visible results. This has led, in various contexts, to the claim by various teams that the agreement has failed. Therefore, it is now a pleasure to record that the agreement begins to produce positive results. The increase in sick leave has stagnated, and in some sectors even a significant decrease is reported. In this case, it is very unfortunate that the Government jeopardises the full basis of the contract by proposing changes to the sick pay scheme in the middle of the contract period, when it now proposes to extend the employer’s share of the sick pay after 14 days of search. In my and SV's view, it is in the phase we are now, where the positive results are starting to show, extremely important on the part of all parties to step up the efforts contained in the agreement – and not weaken it. Therefore, SV will vote against the changes in the sickness pay scheme proposed by the Government – including the modified variant contained in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. We see this as a breach of the IA agreement. Instead, SV proposes to step up the efforts of the state by strengthening the social security system – which is the responsibility of the state in the IA agreement – through increased staffing and competence to reinforce the positive trend we now seem to be in. Such reinforced efforts will provide the basis for estimating further reductions in the cost of sick pay and other sickness-related benefits in public health. The report on the decline in sick leave in the labour market suggests that this decline is mainly in the private sector. In the public sector, long-term sick leave is still very high. This is particularly true of the care sector. We know that many municipalities are struggling very badly financially, and there is no reason to assume that the situation will be particularly brighter next year. This forces the municipalities to have a crew cut down to the leg. It creates a very tough and demanding working day for employees, and no one can wonder that this leads to disease and, in the worst case, disability. In its alternative state budget, SV proposes to increase the revenues of municipalities next year by NOK 6.5 billion. We believe that this is necessary, primarily in order to ensure the welfare of the population, but it will also lead to significantly easier and better employment for the staff required to provide the welfare services. This will provide a basis for us to start seeing a decline in sick leave also in the municipal sector — and in other parts of the public sector. I have previously stressed in my article that we need to ensure that schemes and benefits for those who cannot live on their own income must be such that they provide economic security and a basis for worthwhile life. This is one of the main means of combating poverty. Many suggest that these schemes and benefits do not provide this safety. SV therefore proposes that a sample be set up to review the level of social security benefits, based on SIFO's cost-of-living calculations. In recent years, there have been restrictions on different systems of popular protection, which make it probable that more people who could need such benefits are not caught by the legislation. Therefore, SV, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre, wants an evaluation of the impact of the different changes in the rules. An example of such a tightening is the rules for rehabilitation money. The 2004 State budget placed a limit of 52 weeks in order to receive rehabilitation money under the exemption provisions. This has created great difficulties for many, with interruptions in rehabilitation facilities. Many people have had to go to the social office to get along. This is an example of how poverty is created. SV has therefore, together with the Centre Party, promoted a separate Document No. Eight proposals to reverse this tightening, a proposal under consideration here today, together with the budget. I started this article talking about child poverty, and I'm also going to end it. Some of the restrictions in the rules of popular protection adopted during this ageing period are particularly severe for children. Those receiving rehabilitation, rehabilitation and temporary disability benefits who support children have had a significant reduction in the child supplement. This is considered unacceptable by SV, as it increases the risk of children falling into poverty. We therefore propose — again — in the year’s budget that the children’s allowance for these benefits be set at the same level as the level of beneficiaries of ordinary social security. I should like to hear from those who seriously believe that it is possible to handle expenses for food, clothing, equipment, leisure activities and other things children need, for 17 kroner a day. By maintaining such a low child supplement, the Government and the majority of the population contribute to perhaps even more people going to the Salvation Army next year to get something extra to their children as Christmas approaches. Fortunately, however, it must be a major choice in the meantime, and it is one area in which the country needs a new growth rate and a new government, it is in social policy – in the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1075	The government’s policy is based on respect for human dignity, with a focus on care for the disadvantaged, the equivalency and social inclusion. This means that, in the area of social policy, we have an overall objective of ensuring economic and social protection through good general welfare systems that meet the needs and the life situation of individuals as much as possible. This shall enable a decent life and ensure the quality of life of the individual, irrespective of personal resources and assistance needs. This government, through the Action Plan against Poverty, has implemented a wide range of measures to prevent and help people out of poverty and therefore proposes to step up efforts by 255 million. kr in 2005. With this, the Government has increased the level of appropriations for poverty measures by DKK 1.2 billion during the action period. Following the accession of the Co-operation Board, the total effort for additional measures to combat poverty has risen to nearly DKK 3.2 billion. I hear now that a reason for getting a new government is that we are not betting enough on action against poverty. I just remember that it was this government that took the initiative for a separate action plan against poverty, and that has done something about it. Work is the main means of achieving social and economic security for the population. Measures that can help to strengthen the employment relationship of people who are wholly or partly out of the labour market are therefore most important. We propose, among other things: stepping up the specific focus on targeted measures for social assistance beneficiaries and migrants. Experience gives us the basis to believe that we are on the right track, and that cooperation between social services and Aetat provides a good basis for further work. We are proposing a qualification programme for long-term immigrants who are dependent on social assistance, on the model of the introduction programme, and we are proposing the launch of activation and work-training schemes by non-governmental organisations. Several measures target the heaviest drug users, including the strengthening of treatment and follow-up services and the designation of places in labour market interventions for the group. The government is accused of providing an unsocial budget. I mean, it's wrong. The government is adding up to spending billions more on public welfare next year. It can hardly be called unsocial. The social profile is made visible not only through increased appropriations but also through the government's conscious effort to help people from passive social benefits to active action and work. People with disabilities shall have opportunities for personal development, participation and life development in line with all others. For 2004, nearly 100 million were added. to strengthen measures for people with disabilities and, for 2005, the Government proposes to increase this effort by an additional 85 million. kr. Work is one of the main areas of government policy for people with disabilities. Figures from the Statistical Centre show that the professional activity of this group increases from 2003 to 2004. In the government budget for next year, the Government proposes increasing efforts to increase the number of people with disabilities at work. Through budgetary work in the United Kingdom, room has been found to further increase this effort, which I am pleased to see. It is important to counteract trends in a society that discriminates on the basis of functional levels. Lack of accessibility is a major obstacle to the participation of disabled people in line with others. I am pleased that the Government in these days has presented an action plan for increased availability. The action plan is the first of its kind, and the Government is planning more than 180 million. to targeted measures to promote increased accessibility in the next year’s budget. In 2005, the Government will increase the efforts of disabled children and their families. New measures will be established and existing ones strengthened. A separate strategy plan for children with disabilities and their families will be submitted to spring. As far as efforts towards this group are concerned, I am pleased that, through the budgetary agreement, it is possible to strengthen the grant for co-operative work for the next year by 3 million. kr. Temporary unpaid pay has now been in existence for less than one year. It is important for me to follow developments and look at the effects of the scheme during its existence. The scheme will therefore be evaluated. I am pleased that the Committee supports this. The evaluation will be carried out in two phases. The first phase will be a survey of the characteristics of the beneficiaries, the size of the disability benefit compared to the performance of disability pensioners and the follow-up of the beneficiaries of the benefits. This part of the evaluation will be available in summer. In phase 2 of the evaluation, it is desirable to identify the extent to which beneficiaries with temporary unincorporated unemployment will return to work. The size will be properly briefed on the outcome of the evaluations. The background to the changes in the rehabilitation allowance scheme has been to provide incentives to clarify in the past whether the beneficiary can return to work, whether vocational rehabilitation is to be undertaken or a time-limited non-employment benefit/non-employment pension is granted. I have explained in my own letter to the Committee that I have asked the Swedish National Agency to change the practice of the legislation on rehabilitation payments and temporary unpaid pay, so as to ensure that people with health problems are not left without benefits for living. The guidelines for the social security scheme have been amended accordingly. Instead of reverseing the changes in the rehabilitation money scheme, I believe that some of those who would otherwise have received rehabilitation money for many years should receive temporary unpaid pay. I believe that the exemption provision relating to seriously ill people must be applied with discretion, so that beneficiaries who are in a treatment scheme, with a view to health care within a reasonably short period of time, can retain the right to rehabilitation money. The government will, cf. The budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, presents an outline for the evaluation of the changes in the legislation on rehabilitation funds in the revised national budget for spring. The Government emphasises the continuation of cooperation with social partners on the implementation of the IA Agreement, and considers that the IA Agreement and its work are important for achieving the objectives of reducing sick leave and a more inclusive working life. I can understand the reactions to the proposal made by the Government on changes in the responsibilities of the employer with regard to the sickness pay scheme. The Government considers that it is necessary to intensify further work to reduce sick leave and has therefore proposed to introduce a limited co-financing responsibility for the employer throughout the sick pay period. A majority of the Grand Duchy has joined the proposed amendments. After a sustained increase in sick leave since 1994, it is very gratifying that we now see a decrease in sick leave even after the end of the employer’s period. If it turns out that absence goes down more than expected beyond next year, the Government, as provided for in the budget agreement, will review the implementation of partial responsibilities for employers during the social security period. It is not just sick leave that is an important part of this work. The other interim objectives of the IA Agreement are also important for the Government. We therefore facilitate the inclusion in the labour market of people with reduced working capacity or weak links with the labour market, including people with disabilities, immigrants, young people, long-term recipients of social assistance, etc. The draft budget for 2005 provides for an average of 24 500 action places under specific labour market measures for disabled persons. The proposal includes more means for following up the Road Safety Plan and for increasing efforts towards people with disabilities. Youth, immigrants and the long-term unemployed, including long-term unemployed beneficiaries of social assistance, will continue to be a priority when taking ordinary labour market measures. We are also working on a major and comprehensive reform of our entire labour and welfare management. I believe that the time is ripe for much stronger coordination between the different parts of labour and welfare management than has been achieved through measures that have been tried to date. We therefore want to promote to spring a big paper with concrete proposals on how this should be done. What will be crucial for us is that users meet one unified front in the municipalities of employment, social security and social security administration. We have seen good examples in trials around the municipalities on how this works, where people who have not had a permanent connection to the labour market have got it through a coordinated effort from these three agencies. The main objective of drug policy is a significant reduction in the social and health damage caused by drug abuse, including drug use. by reducing the level of consumption. In our proposal for a State budget, we follow up the Government's action plan on drug problems. We will present a new action plan for next year, with a follow-up to important actions. Today’s situation is uplifting in some areas, while it is more discouraging to others. The main concern for me is related to the increase in alcohol consumption, especially among young people. At the same time, we do not see any increase in drug use, rather a stagnation or a slight decrease in recent years, but unfortunately records some increase in the number of overdoses last year. The fact that the situation is satisfactory in some areas does not mean that we can relax. On the contrary, we need to maintain and strengthen efforts in order for positive developments to continue. The link between price, availability and consumption of alcohol is well documented. Norway has therefore always had a relatively restrictive alcohol policy. For the Government, it is important to maintain this policy in order to prevent more drinking. An important goal is to postpone the debut age. That's the background of a campaign we've been running this year. We are pleased that we are agreeing to continue our campaign activities next year, and to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1130	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1133	I often have the joy of traveling a lot around the country, and during the coffee chat after meetings I often get the question: What kind of vessel is really the Højbråt? And believe it or not, but then I always say that he's a good guy. I often disagree with him, but at least you can trust him. Therefore, I have to say that I was disappointed when the Council of State decided to promote a government budget that violated the IA agreement. What disappoints me the most is that you're trying to make it look like there's no breach of the IA agreement. Had it been said that we are aware of the IA agreement, but from December 2003 until today so much has happened that we feel that it is irresponsible to be on the agreement. That is why we want to put forward a proposal that means breaking. But to break the agreement and then deny that that is what you are doing, I must say disappoint me.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1138	I would like to thank you for the record from the coffee labs all around in Trøndelag. That's good to hear. At the same time, I have to say that the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, refers the Council of State in a relatively imprecise way to this line. I have said clearly – and other members of the Government have also said so – that the proposal for increased responsibilities for employers is not in line with the IA agreement. But it is also not the development we have had in sick leave after the IA agreement was concluded. It is a responsibility for a government to address a development that goes in the wrong direction and that does not meet the assumptions that have been made. We have done so, and we have put forward a proposal which, in the confusion, resembles proposals promoted by workers' party governments earlier towards the Stortinget, and which the Labour Party has voted in favour here in the Stortinget. I have to say that I miss some of the substantive debate on this proposal, not just questions about the relationship with the IA Agreement, although it is important, and although I understand the reactions to the proposal that the Government has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1147	In recent years, the public has taken a number of measures to control drug expenditure in Norway. The latter is that the Swedish National Agency for Drugs has stepped up the practice of the rules on the supply of medicinal products by introducing the APOK control system. This is particularly the case for medicines that have to be prepared in pharmacies but are not registered in Norway. This has meant that patients with advanced cancer have to spend thousands of dollars on medication while waiting for reimbursement. This has become a problem, such as: consult Dagny Faksvåg Haugen at Haukeland University Hospital gives a warning in connection with an article in Dagens Medisin, to which it is also referred in the Official Journal of Bergen on 3 December this year. My question to the Council of State is: as this control system is now set up, the Council of State sees that it can cause so many problems for patients that it must be unintentional, and that you may have to reverse it and not least perhaps practice it in a different way than the case per. Today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1154	The question raised by the representative Nesvik concerns the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Health. My responsibility is the administrative budget of the social security fund. I'm just going to answer from what's my responsibility, and then the Minister of Health will answer for the pharmaceutical management. It is my opinion that the Rikstrøgde works should have good control procedures on the reimbursement schemes, the payments and the social benefits that the Rikstrøgdeverket has to manage. It is important to ensure that the Storting's intentions with the adopted schemes are respected, and to prevent and prevent the misuse of schemes. Therefore, good control systems and new computerised control systems are important. So, of course, it's a point that these controls are exercised in such a way that it's for the patient's benefit, and not the opposite. We would have a responsibility to look into that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1161	There are many who have the minimum benefits in the population as the only income. In particular, families with children are in great economic straits, and it is reported that more in this group are being forced to seek social assistance in order to cope. Among other things, Lillesand Municipality has made a report on this. SV is therefore promoting today a proposal to launch a sample work to look at the level, both at social and social benefits, in relation to living costs. Government parties are among the parties that are going to vote against this today. Does this mean that the Council of State feels fully confident that the level of these benefits is such that no new groups are at risk of poverty? Is there an ongoing assessment of this in the Ministry and Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1170	Yes, there is ongoing work going on, and there is an ongoing focus on the problem that the representative Molvik pointed to. I would like to point out that the State guidance guidelines on social assistance were adjusted by 2004 at the latest. In addition, in addition to the 2002 price adjustment, the rates for children’s living, on which Molvik’s representative was strongly involved in his post, have been raised. It's at all suggested allocations of over 600 million. to various measures for families with children through the extension of the housing support scheme, changes in the transitional arrangements for single dependants, the increase in the child supplement for disability pensioners, the increase in the rate of children, as I mentioned, for social assistance and, in particular, organised measures in large cities for children and young people. It is not like the representative Molvik said in his post, that the only thing this government has done is to send a circular that you should be kind for Christmas. It was also circulated in 2001, long before this Council of State took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1180	Before I forget it again, I would like to take up the suggestions made by the Central Party in this vote, and the proposals made by the Central Party. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs spoke about the fight against poverty, and said that it was this government that had done something about it. I guess that's not quite right. The centre party took this up with poverty and Difference Norway many years ago and was also accused of black-painting. Then came the Bondevik I government, and then the Equalizer message was presented, with Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa as Minister of Social Affairs. So it's natural that this message is now being followed up with a plan. But what we are dealing with in the opposition is that the plan and the real policy of the current government are not good enough. Then I think, among other things. the increase in self-employment and parts of social security and support schemes, which have become worse during this government. I want to ask for another plan, which is also of great importance in terms of disability and increased pressure on the social security budget. It is the proposal of the Centre Party that an action plan to prevent bone irradiation in the population could be drawn up. I know that there is an investigation and a good preliminary work in the department. Why won't the government do anything about this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1191	The representative, Ola D. Glütvold, has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1194	When it comes to calling for the action plan in relation to bone brittleness, I would like to refer again to the Minister of Health as the appropriate Council of State. I think it's actually a work that's going on. As far as the fight against poverty is concerned, I would like to give the Central Party the fact that there has been a considerable commitment over several years, and the announcement by the Bondevik I Government, with Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa as Minister of Social Affairs, was an important foundation for the action plan against poverty presented and adopted by this government, with broad support in the United Kingdom. It is not that one often gets the impression in the debate that the Storting has had a completely different view of what that poverty plan should contain. There has been a great deal of excitement about this. I am pleased, because it is an important platform for implementing these measures. Then you disagree with some other policy, and we have plenty of opportunity to discuss that. But the poverty plan has been widely endorsed by virtually all parties in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1205	No, I am not satisfied with the answers given by the Council of State in relation to the contract of intention. We would like to discuss the action that is being taken. These could be arguments for and against. But there can be no doubt that the government is breaking the agreement. I think it's too easy for the Council of State to argue that there are other parts of the agreement, for example. sick leave, which has also not evolved as expected. The December 2003 declaration clearly states that it is clear that the objectives of the reduction in sick leave are not met. The government is fully aware of that. Nevertheless, you want to go further, however, you make a contract, and in spite of that, you break. I don't think that's fair. The reason why I run this as strongly as I do is to make sure that you can at least make sure that it does not repeat itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1214	I think the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is now getting relatively strong in his characteristics, but I'm going to leave it to the President to deal with it. For my part, I would like to say the following: we have, on the part of this government, openly submitted a proposal. We've openly said that it's not in accordance with the IA agreement in isolation. However, we believe that this is a necessary step towards making the employer responsible for the fight against sick leave, in order to reduce sick leave more rapidly. There's nothing unreasonable about it. You can be upset at the government to do it. I've told you that I understand, I respect that. I have participated in the debate on the basis of that. What I am pleased about is that the government's assurance that we will continue the IA cooperation has been met with continued IA cooperation from the organisations in the workplace. I'm going to base that on what's going to happen further. Now it seems that we are having a fall in sick leave that is much stronger than we intended, and then we will review this in the pact with the agreement presented in the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1225	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1228	3.2 billion kr boasts the Council of State is committed to extra measures against poverty since the Government joined. Some say it's impressive. I want to be more restrained and rather ask: Has the government used this money in a way that works, and thus contributed to the fact that we have had fewer poor people in Norway? And how does the government’s rhetorical fight against poverty harmonize with other government policies? In practice, the main objective of the Government is not the fight against poverty, but a fiscal policy. Here, too, a clever rhetoric is used: when people get more in their own wallet, they can freely choose their welfare. But that's not how it works. They are the ones who have already always been able to choose, who get tax relief. Those who haven't been able to choose, i.e. those who, because of poor advice, have to keep their children away from leisure activities, those who have children who cannot go to cinema and who cannot celebrate birthday, have not been taxed. On the other hand, many of them have had to pay for the tax burden in the form of reductions in unemployment benefits, in the rehabilitation benefits, in the disability benefit scheme, in the sickness benefit scheme. At the same time, the Government is pursuing a consistent policy that makes employment unsafe. Privatisation, transfer of activities and temporary employment create uncertainties about both employment and acquired entitlements as pension conditions. At the same time as the labour income framework is weakened and social security benefits are reduced, both national and local authorities are increasing the self-financing requirements for important welfare goods, which are particularly felt as heavy for people with disabilities, social security, sick and low pay, i.e. those with poor finances – those who do not receive tax relief. We need to reduce the general and universal benefits, so that we can help those who really need it, it's called from government teams – tailoring is the mantra. But the government's tailor-made policy is a policy that does not help the poorest, on the other hand a policy and a tailor-made approach to the second poorest. The savings in social security benefits, in the disability and rehabilitation benefits ‘must motivate the next poorest to work’. But that's not how it works. Daily we get feedback from social security recipients in desperate situations. There are persons who are undergoing rehabilitation but who are not allowed to complete their rehabilitation arrangements. The reasons can be many. Some have had to wait for treatment; others are in long-term treatment. They remain without social security rights, and the social security system has referred them to the social security offices. Similarly, we receive feedback that the rule that reintroduction is to be assessed before disability can be allowed is practised in such a way that reintroduction should in any case be tested. This results in delivery companies getting clients so sick that they can’t do anything, and companies have no point in offering them. Those who are initially in a difficult situation get it even more difficult, and the way back to work may seem insurmountable. The tailoring system of the Government targets many who are initially in a marginal situation, resulting in a further exclusion of society. The outcome of the government’s poverty reduction can be seen in social statistics, which tell us that the number of social clients is increasing and that the social budgets are increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1243	Hospitals also receive increased appropriations for the next year. Both the government's budget proposal and another 500 million. This is ensured by the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. The hospital reform also provides more and more results to show that the reform was a proper response. The number of patients on the waiting list has dropped by nearly 25 pst. since 1 January 2002. The waiting time for patients on the waiting list has been more than halved. Also for the current year, which is a year of hospital conversion, the waiting time has fallen. These results show that a lot of good work has been done in health regions and in individual hospitals. However, it also shows that there was a great deal to be gained from better resource use and from better coordination of specialist health services. Although good results have been achieved, we are not yet in the goal of the reform. The specialist health service is a big shot to turn around. But with the results we've achieved so far, it's incomprehensible to me that some people want to reverse the reform, whether it's putting regional politicians into regional governments, restricting patient rights, or creating difficulties for the private actors in the specialist health service. All health regions shall be in the budget balance by the end of 2005. Debt cancellation will undermine the incentives of health businesses both in the long and short term in complying with the framework conditions imposed by the Storting. However, a majority of the committee, consisting of the government parties and the Progress Party, has stated in the vote that there will be uncertainty as to the speed with which the regional health companies operating with a significant deficit are able to implement the necessary measures to balance the health region by the end of next year. It points out in the note especially to Health South. In this context, the majority ask that the Ministry of Health should take a closer look at the effectiveness measures in Health South, and in this context also consider any relaxation of the balance sheet requirement. It is important to stress that this should not be a sleep cushion for Health South, or that you can push all the problems in front of you. It must also be said that one of the reasons Health South is now struggling is that the health region started up late with the necessary efficiency measures and transitions compared to other regions. However, the patient should not suffer for this, therefore this opening to look at how and when to balance. I understand that the left-hand side does not want to point out that a government in which the Right is involved is actually the government that has addressed the challenges of poverty in Norway. The poverty problems we have today, including: 26,000 poor children, to a large extent, are an inheritance from the Workers' Party. They showed no willingness to address these problems. As the first government in recent times, the co-operation administration has identified the extent of poverty in Norway. Since 2002, the Government has increased the level of poverty reduction appropriations by DKK 1.2 billion. In 2005, appropriations were increased by 255 million. kr. The total effort is SEK 3.2 billion after the government joined. The budget contains far more than the Christmas greetings of the poor. It contains targeted measures: increasing the number of intervention sites for the disabled, improving housing support, introducing wage subsidies for the disabled, and strengthening the follow-up of drug users. And, not least, the measures to help people get back to work faster. That's important, because we know that work is the most effective way out of poverty. In a society with good general arrangements, there are always some outsiders. Should we be able to help these, require new, targeted solutions, not more of the same medicine. We have to help those who need it, so it monks, don't lubricate thinly beyond, as the left-hand side wants. We know that long social cycles constitute pure poverty traps. The longer you live on social benefits, the harder it is to get back to work. I would also like to stress that a good education system is one of the best tools available to us in the fight against poverty. For the Right, it is important to ensure an equivalent right to education and to prevent children from falling out of school. This government has strengthened the well-being of Norway in recent years. It has not happened despite, but because of, the tax reliefs given. Most of the tax relief is granted to businesses, which now provides a basis for more jobs. It has a double effect: there will be more money for well-being, and more people will get into work. In addition, the Government has provided tax relief to all income groups. The minimum deduction has been increased from NOK 40 300 to NOK 57 400. It's a tax haven that means a lot to those who serve at least. No one can refuse to use the poor as an excuse to increase taxes. But it doesn't help him or her who wants to work to support themselves, that business and businesses get increased taxes, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1284	Plague most, cost most, says national back network on muscle and skeletal disorders in Norway. ==References== There are 300,000 people living in Norway with a degenerative disease. We expect that 500,000 people live with Revmatic pain conditions, without having a diagnosis," says the Norwegian Revmatikerbund. The number of the government agency shows that 46 pst. of all sick leave due to muscle and skeletal disorders. Over 40 pst. of all those undergoing medical rehabilitation or re-hospitalisation, have muscle and skeletal disorders, and 33 pst. of all disability pensions is caused by muscle and skeletal disorders. These are very high numbers, but it's an area where there's little research. Many of those who suffer are women. Women’s disorders still receive little attention. We know that far more women than men have these disorders, and that that is the basis for their disability. With this in mind, the Workers' Party will draw attention to temporary unpaid pay, which was also addressed by the Council of State. The availability of fixed-term unpaid pay is dominated by women with nearly 70 pst. This makes us worried, because we're afraid that this is related to a lack of knowledge about women's diseases and women's disorders. We are concerned that the division of long-term social security and temporary social security is an expression of a lack of understanding that these sufferings lead to disability. A total of women’s movement has been involved in this for several years because it can easily be perceived as discrimination against women. The scheme is now being implemented in the new legislation, which differs between permanent and temporary social security. Those who receive temporary unpaid pay receive much less money. It is easy to see that it can be seen as discrimination against women. In evaluating the new disability legislation, the Labour Party is very concerned about the women’s policy aspect. Based on what the Council said in its statement, I hope that it will be taken care of. Now that we know that one of the main causes of disability is musculoskeletal disorders, it requires that we get a more targeted and comprehensive treatment and rehabilitation program. The majority of the social committee therefore considers that it is time to have a national action plan. We need our rehabilitation institutions as tools to achieve the goals of reducing sick leave, so that more people can participate in the inclusive working life. This brings me to the fact that the majority of the Social Committee has said that the Athletic Centre in Rauland should be a national centre of competence for vocational rehabilitation. This matter has not yet been settled. The government parties claim in their comment about the Attführungszentrum in Rauland that the government has done its job. Then I hope, good councillors, we can perceive it as a signal that a solution is right around the corner. The Workers' Party is pleased that the establishment of the Frogner Learning and Competence Centre by Mental Health Norway has broad support, albeit in a slightly different way. But overall, there is room for this to succeed. We have recorded that Modum Bad has investigated treatment options for people with mental and drug problems. There is no doubt that there is a great need for such a treatment provision, as many have been in the debate. We hope this can get started soon. The Labour Party supports this measure, even though we have suggested a little less money than the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1307	The government puts the patient at the centre of its health policy. Through the reform of drugs, treatment for those with drug problems has become part of the specialist healthcare service. The law has been amended, and drug addicts have been granted patient rights. This government has made the largest effort ever to provide treatment and health to those with drug problems. The Minister of Health has said here today that intoxication will be one of three main priorities for the next year — it gives hope. On the right, the Government supports the ongoing development of more and better treatment services in the area of drugs and psychiatry in the community of users. The 2005 budget reinforces the low-threshold measures for the most aggravated, and relies on labour market measures for patients in medically assisted rehabilitation. At the same time, drug-free treatment measures are being developed to provide high-quality cross-disciplinary treatment services. The role of the doctors, together with the municipalities, has been clarified through the drug reform, which means that in the future, each drug addict will be met with a more comprehensive treatment and care provision, with individual plans and follow-up in his community. Russreform II will be a major challenge for health businesses in the coming years. This is because a significant number of drug users have a so-called dual diagnosis, where they are struggling with both drug and mental problems. Therefore, it is very important to the right that drug treatment is given high priority by enterprises and contributes to closer cooperation between drug treatment and psychiatry. The government has set as an important strategic goal for drug policy the improvement of access to effective counselling, help and treatment for those with drug problems and their relatives. At the same time, the provision of the most worn-out drug addicts is strengthened by the government granting money for the establishment of the Gate Hospital of the Salvation Army in Oslo, while at the same time increasing the efforts on follow-up services in housing for homeless and drug addicts in the municipalities. The government prioritizes those who need it the most. The reinforced allocation to the 2005 Roadmap for mental health results in the plan being on track. There is still a clear need to strengthen mental health protection in order to provide people with mental disorders with an equivalent and good service. However, as important as increased resources are migration and cultural changes in the field of mental health protection. The switchover requires changing treatment practices and a new approach to users. The objective of the Right and the Government is to provide more services in their community environment, thereby allowing for participation and inclusion in society. This means that the service equipment should be designed more according to the needs and wishes of the users. Despite a significant increase in treatment capacity, the provision of services continues to be marked by a lack of municipal provision, lack of cooperation and lack of follow-up by users. The budget increases the operational funds for mental health protection by 853 million. kr. In order to strengthen the services offered by municipalities to the mentally ill, the municipalities are allocated 400 million. kr, while the remaining 453 million. kr goes to the undertakings. It is granted 737 million. SEK for new investments in the specialist health service. After five years of escalation, the status is that more and more are seeking help and more are receiving help in the field of mental health protection. In 2003, 33,650 children and young people were treated. It represents an increase of 65 pst. from the start of the planning period in 1998. During the same period, the number of adults treated in outpatient clinics increased by 49 pst. Figures from the Norwegian Patient Register show that the average waiting time for children and young people has changed from 90 days per year. 1st tertiary 2002 to 71 days per year. first tertiary in 2004. The goal of the Government is to reduce the waiting time for an assessment interview for children and adolescents to 10 days. So finally, one never so small departures from rushes and psychiatry. It means a great deal for the birthing and their families that the Committee once again contributes to providing strong leadership for the continuation and further development of the prematurity offer in the new-born department of Ålesund. The Ålesund region is growing rapidly, with increasing population and birth rates. The prematurity offer at the hospital in Ålesund is known for very good professional quality, and it is the only offer between Bergen and Trondheim that takes care of natives from Møre and Romsdal and large parts of Sogn and Fjordane. The regions greatly appreciate the aid. It is also positive that the Government, in cooperation with the Progress Party, strengthened the basic frameworks of Health West and Health Mid-Norway by 167 million respectively. SEK and 99 million. kr. In the long term, and as soon as possible, these two health regions need to have a level playing field with the other health regions, as the Hagen Committee has stated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1338	The most important task now is to get out of work, to include more people in the labour market, to get a better supply of training and to provide security for the elderly and the sick through a good health service and with affordable assets. Sickhouses must make the economy continue the good developments in which queues and waiting times have been shorter. The aim of the hospital reform was to provide patients with an equivalent supply regardless of where they live and the economy they have. This is the case and the queues have been reduced, but it must still be possible to claim that the enterprises have not yet found their ideal mode of operation. But when the operating deficit in the run-up to over 2 billion kroner, it goes without saying that this budget that is currently being agreed will put our hospitals in a very difficult situation next year. We all here in the Chamber have heard thunderous speeches by the Progress Party Alvheim that there is too little money for the elderly and the sick. But with this comparison between the government party and the Progress Party, it will still be such that hospitals will have significant financial difficulties next year. The Labour Party is opposed to saving that will go at the cost of the patient's supply, and so in our alternative budget, we have allowed SEK 1.5 billion more to the hospitals for next year. It has also been that it has been a disparity when it involves the various regional leaders, and Health West and Health Mid-Norway is too small. Of course, there is no acceptance in Rogaland, Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane and the other counties northwards, so that the population gets fewer health crowns than the others in the regions. There is a bug that Size previously agreed to fix. In the revised budget for this year, the Labour Party took part in the first step, and Health West got more money as well as Health Mid-Norway. The government did not make this happen when they provided the budget for the next year. As a result, Stortinget had to arrange, and I am glad that the Advance Party got the government party to reduce the escalating time from five to two years. The Labour Party is in agreement with this, and our budget would, for example, be. Health West has received an additional 338 million. kr. It would have been helpful to give a patient offer to people who live in the West, in line with what the rest of the country has. Besides giving riddles to those who don't need it, there's one area where the Bondevik government is really going to recognize. Every fall, the government has made suggestions to dramatically increase the properties of the health care system. For the next year, the government would increase its ownership to NOK 2,500. That's an increase of almost $1,000. Fortunately, this was stopped in Stortinget this year as well. Last year, the Labour Party agreed to stop the increase. It is good that the Progress Party in the budget agreement for next year has done the same. Safety in old age and in periods of illness is fundamental in a welfare society. The Workers' Party, on the other hand, is presented by the Government on such an increase in the ownership of medicine and treatment. Alvheim of the Progress Party said in his speech earlier today that the Progress Party had got a more social budget than the Government stated. Yeah, in some areas it's right. When it applies to property, for example, I agree, but it is with the support of the Progress Party that VAT is increased by 1 pst. More than DKK 4 billion will be collected from all consumers next year because of it, and the scheme less large disease costs will be streamlined with support from the Progress Party. It's not something special social. The inclusion of more people in the labour market is unlikely to be important, and it is now apparent that the companies that have worked systematically with the IA agreement are reducing their sick leave. In this situation, then, the government's sovereign breach of the agreement on an inclusive working life, which they have signed with the social partners, by proposing to reduce the pay gap in the sick pay scheme. The party of progress has been postponed to summer. The working party is totally opposed to changing the sick pay scheme. We believe it is important to have a trusting relationship between political governance and the social partners, and it is important to be in charge of concluded agreements. It is important to include more people in the labour market, and this agreement shows that sick leave is falling and more people may return to work. It's good for the individual, and it's good society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1364	In connection with St.meld. No 5 for 2003–04, on the financing of specialist health services, a co-ordinated social committee was set up to correct parts of the imbalance between the different health care providers over five years. The regional health agency operating under the largest distribution, Health West, would receive approx. 250 million. kr more in baselines over a five-year period. The Christian People's Party is therefore very happy that the government party, along with the Progress Party, is able to give 150 million in this first year. NOK 250 million. kr to Health West. That means about 60 pst. I hope then, like the representative Røbekk Nørve from the Right, that this may be the beginning of our being able to follow the whole setting from the Hagen selection, and not just what has been laid down in St.meld. No 5th@item: The Christian People's Party is aware that the resources of the Tournament Service in the health sector must be sufficient to ensure that the Tournament Service can be carried out in a good way also in our smaller local hospitals. Therefore, it is decisive that the Health Executive's letter emphasises that the tour services are also well arranged by the smaller local hospitals and our local hospital. The implementation of the hospital reform has led to a change in the functional distribution between local hospitals, and a private local hospital has also been created in Florø. The Christian People's Party is busy preserving viable local hospitals and local hospitals. Therefore, the Tournament Service has to be drawn up in the light of such structural changes, so that the same hospitals do not double up and become further weakened. I am therefore pleased that in this budget setting, it has been established that there must be a willingness to change the organisation of the turnkey service for larch in the light of the changes that have occurred in the hospital structure. It will mean much for smaller local hospitals in general, but also for the local hospital in Florø in particular. It is important that the public bet on the free environment. Free assembly sites must be an important sub-strategy in the prevention work. It is therefore positive that a research-based evaluation work has been undertaken to provide a broader and more solid knowledge of the drug-prevention effect and the cultural impact of such a good drug-free community. AlkoKutt is a limited-time campaign, and the current period is about to end. AlkoKutt has wanted the campaign to continue beyond the planned campaign period. There was a great deal of political agreement in this House, and it also has a great deal of agreement among the peoples about the ban on certain zones being non-alcoholic. The Christian People's Party is therefore well pleased that one in the budget setting has managed to facilitate the AlkoKutt campaign to secure operations beyond the planned campaign period. For the Christian People's Party, it's a goal to increase the debut age for alcohol use. In the next few years, campaigns have been launched that have turned out to be specific to young people. The Christian People's Party has great faith in attitude campaigns, such as this one, and believes it is decisive that this work will continue and be strengthened next year. As a case spokesman for the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2002-2003, Disability reduction, I am very pleased that the Government is taking a strong boost in this area in the budget. The budget strengthens measures for people with disabilities by 85 million. kr. For the Christian People's Party, it's a clear goal that one can get more people with disabilities into work. I stand behind and am very pleased with the suggestions that the Government is making. Families with children with disabilities also receive additional help in 2005. The Christian People's Party is pleased that today it is agreed that next year, too, 7.5 million will be set aside. kr to spread and initiate work based on good experience and models from pilot projects and municipalities. In addition, family projects and rehabilitation services, as well as life guidance aimed at families with children with disabilities, are strengthened. This shows that we have a government that is well committed to action for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1387	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1390	Like many others, I want to express concern about hospital operations in the coming year. No one can doubt that a budget cut of SEK 2.2 billion for hospitals will be noticed for patients, employees and communities alike. I understand that people react strongly when patient services are reduced and departments are closed while giving large tax relief to those who have more than enough already. I come from a part of the country with great distances. When services are cut at hospitals, the distance to help is even greater, creating insecurity for the population. This is not something that promotes development and housing. With the Labour Party's draft budget, Health Nord would have received 162 million. kr more at disposal. This is not adopted today, and it will be noticed. I have always been interested in the situation of people with disabilities. I am glad that society has always progressed in terms of the opportunities for disabled people to participate in society and to obtain education and work. Nevertheless, much remains to be done. I think it's a failure statement for our society that the blind and the feeble who take education are going to have problems getting professional literature to update after they get to work. These are people who do a great job, and who would not bother to get the necessary literature. These are people who have good skills and a strong willingness to contribute to society, both as professionals and as taxpayers. They should not be punished in such a way. I did not believe my own eyes when I read in the setting that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are moving towards a proposal that will ensure professional literature for the visually impaired. I am pleased that a joint committee will facilitate the further design and realisation of the District Medical Centre in Mid-Throms. This is a centre to serve ten municipalities, where the distance to the nearest hospital for the population on average is 140 km. Everyone understands the importance this center will have for its inhabitants, for the security we should all feel when we get sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1408	In connection with the treatment of the extension of St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim, a unanimous social committee said: ‘The government asks the government to investigate how a psychiatrist can be included in Phase 2 of the development of a new university clinic at Øya in Trondheim.’ What I'm recording is that this, how to include it, is now interpreted by a majority to that effect that this should be modified and possibly not realized. It is particularly disappointing to note that the Progress Party, which is one of the most advanced parties in terms of how this psychiatry is to be realized, is now trying to avoid the responsibility they actually have. The government has long signaled that they are not interested in following up. That's what the voters in Middle Norway have noticed. It is very discouraging to see that some still believe that psychiatry should be treated differently than somatic. Here we build a grand new university clinic and a hospital for Middle Norway where the psychiatry should not be a natural, integrated part. That means that the psychiatry is still being treated as a stepchild. It turns out that the many beautiful words that have been said in this room from a unanimous magnificence about what place psychiatry should have in the future, and how important it is to bet on psychiatry, are not followed up when it comes to reality. I also record that the government is trying to find a professional ferniss, a professional fig leaf, because why the psychiatry is not to be included in a university clinic. This means that, in fact, one no longer believes that psychiatry is an important part of this, but that psychiatry should be separated and not be part of the comprehensive university clinic that is now being built in Trondheim. This is particularly discouraging because, as far as I know, all the professionals, no matter what position they may have, believe that the psychiatry must naturally be included in a somatic hospital, in order to see in the context the different sufferings that a human being has. On the SV side, we have received support from a minority, unfortunately, for an extension to be included in phase 2. The construction of this hospital will continue continuously for many years to come, and in construction phase 2 there are many new, large buildings to be built. One has designed and finished how a psychiatrist can be included in this, but unfortunately there is no permission from the Stortinge to go on with this. The reasons given by the majority are partly professional but also economic. That is perhaps what amazes me most in the argument of the Advancement Party. John Alvheim also said in his speech here from the Parliamentary Chair that you cannot do this, because there was no money for it in the budget agreement. This is a building that lies many years ahead in time, and does not affect either the next year's budget or the budget thereafter. This is a project that is far ahead of time and therefore requires only an approval of how it can be implemented in the future. At my discretion, this is a very discouraging day. The voters in central Norway will probably notice which parties still believe that psychiatry should not be a natural part of a hospital offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1428	It is very positive that an overall increase is behind the Hysnes HealthFort project, which is to be built up as part of a national competence centre for the rehabilitation of cancer patients and their families. We know that more and more people get cancer, and there is a clear increase in the number of cases of disease in the years to come. Demanding cancer treatment increases the need for rehabilitation. As it is today, many walkers get sick for a long time, and end up being ill-advised. For example, 50 pst. women who have had breast cancer do not return to work after the end of treatment. Cancer is a special disease, and the patient and the relatives often feel very vulnerable. It is therefore important to obtain support so that one can get rid of the fear or uncertainty that comes with it. Coming back as a functioning member of society and participating in the labour market may be what is needed to re-experience quality of life and life. A Memorandum of Understanding has been concluded between Rissa Municipality, Kreftforeningen and Health Mid-Norway, and the plans are clear. A group of caverns sits behind them. At the same time, the framework for the health business is very narrow per year. today because of the civil agreement. The unanimous agreement of the size of the plans is therefore only a step 1, the next step must be in the revised budget, where it must be clear that this action can, and must, be given priority. One can not only talk about reducing the cost of health and social security, one must also acquire knowledge of what is going on, and take forward measures that can help people get back to work. The treatment offer shall be nationwide and shall be research-based. This means that the benefits can be very large. Hysnes HealthFort is a strongly wanted offer, with broad professional and political anchoring. We simply can't afford to put this unique project in a drawer, and it will also put the whole Storting and Government in a strange light.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1441	The intention agreement on a more inclusive working life contains three objectives, one of which coincides with an important objective of senior policy, as defined by the Senior Policy Centres, managed by the Chief Executive, Yngve Högensen. The intention agreement, valid until 31.12.05, has three objectives: reducing sick leave by at least 20 pst. during the period of the contract, to have a large number of disabled workers employed to increase the actual retirement age, i.e. the average retirement age from work — and that is what counts when it comes to the debate on financing future pensions; Much of the senior policy work is about development measures to contribute to a good human resources policy and an inclusive working environment. Senior policy is based on experience, which suggests that human resources policy and development measures must have a life-stage perspective, with preventive measures being introduced early in their careers, among other things. in a SSP factsheet on seniors in the workplace, which can be highly recommended by many surveyors who believe that senior policy is another expression of older people’s care. So it's not. The trends in the exclusion of the labour market in final packages, the early retirement of people who want to continue working themselves, are socially very expensive and also lead to human suffering. The Centre has identified a number of unfortunate side effects of different laws, regulations, pension provisions and social security schemes, and mentions a number of questions of investigation and assessment in its proposals for further work on senior policy. In the setting we say that we refer to these booklets, which is a detailed description of the need for a more comprehensive public senior policy. I am pleased that there is a unanimous committee that is now of the opinion that a separate big-time report on an offensive senior policy should be drawn up in order to put this important area properly on the political agenda. The Committee also assumes that the work on a wholesale communication can involve employers and employee organisations, enterprises, research environments, educational and competence-raising institutions, non-governmental organisations, pensioners' organisations and, of course, the Centre for Senior Policy, the Senior Case Norway and others. The process itself could contribute to changing attitudes in the workplace, both on the employer's side and on the employee's side, in order to make everyone aware of the need – so that those who do not want to leave work are not pushed out in some way, or tricked out – to raise the general age of departure from active work. When the Storting will today take a decision to ask the Government to prepare such a big message, I would like to be allowed to ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Dagfinn Højbrätten whether he will take this decision seriously and implement a broad, comprehensive fact collection from the business community, both employers and employees, as I mentioned. When can we expect such a big message to be processed? It would be interesting if the Council of State could give some information about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1470	Sound experiences can lead to impaired hearing and ear tone, which is often a tragedy for individuals and precious to society. ==References== 600,000 people in Norway are affected by oesophagus, and of these it is about 600,000. 20 000 people who are so hit so hard that they're out of the game, that's just out of the game. Therefore, all measures that can prevent and improve the lives of these people are good measures. According to the National Institute for Public Health, the extent of hearing damage caused by noise in leisure is little measured, as opposed to the extent of hearing damage caused by noise in a working situation. It has been shown that temporary hearing impairments and oesophagus can be obtained at high music concerts, but lasting consequences are not shown in population studies. The sound levels measured at some concerts and discos also indicate that there is reason to lead were. The very precautionary principle is the motivation of the Norwegian Rockeforbund and Hørselshinderdes Landsförbund Youth when they have now initiated a project that focuses on the noise damage young people are exposed to in leisure time. These young people will cooperate with the Ministry of Health and Welfare to launch a two-year information campaign in which they want to motivate and train the organizers of 2 500 concerts, which are visited by over 300,000 audiences. They want to inform and inspire the audience to take responsibility for their hearing, including: by providing information and free earplugs at concerts and festivals. And using earplugs doesn't go beyond the music experience. This is a very important project. Therefore, it is gratifying that a majority in the Stortinget, the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party, actually support this and ask the Government to follow this up. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State to consider the 2005 funding for the various projects in particular on this good preventive action. In my opinion, this is a good social economy, and it is also really a health prevention measure of the best class.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1487	Regional health professionals have a continuous debate on their hospital structure and the functional distribution between hospitals. In Sogn and Fjordane, this has led to the creation of a local hospital in Florø and to the conversion of the maternity ward to a reinforced birthplace at Lärdal Hospital. It is also agreed to close the emergency response both in Lærdal and in Nordfjordeid. I will not spend time on whether I am in favour of or against such changes, but I will focus on the fact that the changes will cause the county doctor to raise questions about the local hospital and the local hospital to be able to provide medical tour applicants with a hospital service that meets all the requirements of the Tournament Service. The representative, Osmundnes, was also in his post. The problem is not peculiar to our state, it is also discussed in the government proposal. But it's not enough to say that you should make it possible to keep the tour service in the local hospitals, one must say something about how you want to do it. The Social Committee has now given a clear signal that this is about the fact that changes in structure and functions should also result in a change in the Tournament Service. This cannot be understood in any other way than that the rules have to be changed so that the tour operator is still as decentralised as possible. That's a very important point. If we miss out on the edge of the tour, we miss out on the most important recruitment tool we have. A survey conducted today by Sogn and Fjordane County Councillors, among the local and local authorities in Sogn and Fjordane, confirms that a good tour service and acceptable medical care systems are the most important tools for recruiting and retaining children in the municipalities in the county. Another important thing is that this also has consequences for the content of the Tournament Service. If you don't meet the Turnus-like Chronicle Space Agency and deal with the most common medical issues in the Turnustime, you'll only be able to give another spin on the Specialisation Screw. Basic services for future local hospitals will be characterised by general internal medicine, geriatrics and rehabilitation. The problem is that there are currently no specialists who can or will go into such settings. There is a fundamental disparity between the people's needs and lying down their specialist structure and their work-seekers that we can no longer sit quietly and look at. For this reason, I am very pleased that the social committee, in the comment of a co-consultant in the vote, is busy maintaining viable local hospitals and local hospitals, and the tour services also have to attack on a changing structure. The Committee writes that this should be considered in the organisation of the Tournament Service. I ask the Minister to note that, for now it is his task to address it in the newsletters of the leaders, but also in the further work on changes in the content of the Tournament Service and the regulations relating to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1502	I feel a need to respond a little to the post that the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo held on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. I think that the representative of Ballo deserves to be commended for the way he addressed the question of pharmaceutical policy. Not only did he do it in a good way, he did it also with humorous sense. It is quite clear that although it might seem funny with the review of all these strange names that few can relate to, it is a fundamental problem that I, in line with him and most of the others who have been on this pulpit, think should be changed and cleared up. This is a problem that one gets really caught up in by the Government in the drug notification coming to spring, so that we don't have that kind of treatment in the future. This is our goal. Fortunately, when you look at the year’s budgeting, there are considerably fewer drugs mentioned above. So one is on the right path, but this is a system that one should be able to change quite a lot. So to one of the issues related to this, namely the vote proposal IX, which concerns COLS. I just want to give an explanation on the background that the government parties will vote against that proposal. We believe that the proposal as such is based on a misunderstanding. The government has not proposed to transfer medicinal products that are currently reimbursed under Section 9 to Section 10a. What lies in the budgetary position is a proposal to divide the reimbursement regulation between COLS and asthma to avoid the practice that appears to be taking place, namely that COPS patients are prescribed asthma medications according to Section 9, which are actually wrong prescriptions. I also understood that when the representative, Olav Gunnar Ballo, explained that SV was going to vote for this proposal, he was nevertheless clear that he supports the Government in that it should be possible to make such a split in the reimbursement regulation. With that, the government parties will continue to vote against the proposal, and I record the support of a majority in the Grand Duchy in relation to what has been the intention of the Government from day one.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1513	In 10 minutes, there's not much to talk about. I was not particularly concerned about this with the IA agreement, so I just want to say that the Senterpartie goes against the changes in the health pay scheme that the Government has presented here. We believe that there is a breach of contract, as this has evolved. So for the medical rehabilitation thing. I refer you to Document No. 8:6 for 2004-2005, which is being discussed with the budget today, where the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party ask for a return to the rehabilitation allowance scheme beyond 52 weeks, and for this to be done in an unambiguous and correct manner. So a little back to disability, as in the case of social security, is the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs – both in budgetary terms and elsewhere. That's why I brought it up in the social minister's posts. It is under the responsibility of the Minister of Health and Welfare. I'm fully aware of that. I can repeat my question: Wouldn't it be important to launch a treatment plan for the prevention of osteoarthritis in the population now, as Norway is in the muscle and skeletal decade? Then maybe you could bring down the percentage of those who are debilitated and sick because of muscle and skeletal disorders. It is earlier here today that there is a reason for 46 pst. of all sick leave. Osteoporosis is usually a female disease, and it is also a priority area in relation to what the Government has said. Then I am pleased with the consensus on senior policy, as in particular. is important for an inclusive working life for older workers. So I'll draw your attention a little bit to the video and eyephone. It is important that such technological innovation can now be used and that it is developed as quickly as possible to assist both hearing and visual impairment. I remember the majority who were involved in the treatment of the reduction of disability barriers, when it was said from an overall committee that the text-phone centres would be good communication and coordination centres for image and eyephones. So a little bit to this with the psychiatrician at St. Olav's Hospital, which I have also affected earlier today in a reply to the chairman of the committee, John I. Alvheim. I think it is very sad that now there is no longer a majority to integrate this into a university hospital. Reference to the DPS level is a downgrade and a down-priority not only by the psychiatry centre in Trondheim, but a down-priority to this subject, which will clearly affect the treatment provision of patients. So it's been mentioned, even as far as I'm concerned, the Fozen District Medical Center. And I want to ask the question: is it so that the shinning of a psychiatrist can cause problems for the Fosen District Medical Center, which the Center Party wants to prioritise, also financially? This has been decided by the Board of Directors of St. Olav's Hospital as a three-year pilot project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1531	The Advance Party has received a lot of pepper from the Workers' Party in relation to the allocation to health businesses. As I said in my first post, the economic situation of businesses was as difficult last year as it is this year. Then the Workers' Party made a settlement with the government parties. They got 500 million in place. kr. We've done that in addition to the ISF. There is little help in fanning that the alternative budget has NOK 1.5 billion. I would like to quote Jens Stoltenberg's contributions to the financial debate on 26 November 2003: "We have our primary budget, which we believe is even better, but we do believe that it is important to get some decent billions and not just TV billions." That's what I'm thinking! Otherwise, the Workers' Party has the opportunity to support us when we come to the regrouping proposition, where we can reduce the company's deficit by NOK 2 billion. I am very pleased with what the Minister of Health said in his statement, that Rusreform II, drug treatment, should be given priority. He said on another occasion that the drug addicts are sitting at the bottom of the table. No, they don't actually do that either, they're under the table, and they've been lying there for a long time. So I will, at least as long as I'm at the house here, follow closely what's happening in this field, so that they won't be losing in the total care. Finally, there has to be an end to these foci when it comes to psychiatric wards in Ullevål hospitals. We simply can't accept this anymore. It helps very little, it helps the case very little, that the management at Ullevål says repeatedly that they take responsibility! What does it really mean to take responsibility in this context? I have not registered that a single official in this department is on leave or has been dismissed for the serious errors that have been made here and that have been repeated again and again! I would like to hear from the Minister of Health: what will the Minister of Health do immediately to get into the department, so that we will not experience even more tragic cases from this psychiatric unit?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1547	The working party has always looked at work for everyone, regardless of sex, age or skin color, as a good thing. The working party still believes it. Therefore, we want to prevent the exclusion of older workers. We want a good senior policy and an inclusive working life. The statistics show that a worker who has been sick for more than eight weeks has only 50 pst. chance of returning to work. For this group, it is essential that there is a way back into working life. The alternative is social security or social assistance, and there is a poor solution, both for individuals and for society. In the view of the Workers' Party, the more inclusive work contract is an important tool to prevent people from becoming long-term unemployed. Fortunately, absenteeism no longer increases at the same rate as before, but shows signs of falling. That means that the IA agreement is starting to have positive effects. The Workers' Party considers it important that the measures and efforts relating to this Agreement be reinforced, so that this gradually results in a reduction, including in new cases of unemployed persons. Although we have a lot of good statistics in Norway, we need more knowledge and studies on early retirement, exclusion, workers’ preferences and the behaviour of agencies and enterprises towards and relationships with older workers. Here I would like to make a small recommendation to the Council of State Høybråten to start by taking a look at the proportion of 62+ in the departments. In 1962, 240 persons were 62+, in 2003 165 persons were 62+. It is not possible to complain that the parties do not do enough to achieve the objectives of the agreement, when the State itself does not do what can be expected. The feeling of losing security in future incomes and pensions, future status, performance and working community is strong. In addition, there are requirements for improving efficiency, shifts, changes and downskilling in the public and private sectors, which help to increase sick leave. The Labour Party believes that safety at work is important. We believe that increased access to temporary employment is countering the objective of an inclusive working life. Temporary employment creates insecurity. Governments must monitor developments closely and give workers greater influence over developments in the labour market. Everything, like, can't pay off in a welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1564	I welcome the broad political commitment expressed by the senior policy, both in the position of the committee and in the debate here today. In a short time, the size will be able to discuss important aspects of senior policy on the basis of the key communication on the future of the pension system that the Government will present in a few days. One of the main objectives of that reform will be to help more people stay longer in the labour market, and it will increase the average retirement age, which the representative Hagen was in. The government is concerned with senior policy. We've converted the former State's senior council into the State's senior council. They are now working on an investigation into modern senior policy, which we will receive before the summer. The study will focus on barriers that prevent older people from taking an active part in society and on measures that can improve conditions. It shall address the ageing situation in the labour market, the political decision-making processes, cultural life and housing conditions. Some of the reasons why older people are discriminated against are unlucky attitudes and stereotypes — many of the same problems that we see in other areas where we face discrimination challenges, whether it be ethnic origin, other beliefs, disability or sexual orientation. Discrimination against older people is equally unacceptable. Here, too, we must see the individual human being and the value of the individual human being. Therefore, discrimination on grounds of age is included in the EU action programme against discrimination, to which the Stortinget has joined. I will follow up on the request to start work on a separate report on senior policy. The work already under way will provide a good basis for overall policy-making in this area. I expect that in the next year we will have made a good start and in terms of such work. Senior policy is also an important part of the interaction with the social partners, on which the representative Fallen was involved, and as the representative Hagen also mentioned. It is one of the intermediate objectives of the IA agreement that we, on the part of the Government, are committed to following up, both in relation to the state as an employer and in general in the labour market. We will use the Senior Policy Centres in this important work, and we will follow up on the interaction with the employees' and employers' organisations when we prepare the Storing Message, which I am pleased to present to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1579	In Case No. 2 has a proposal, together with the Centre Party, for the reintroduction of the rehabilitation allowance under the scheme in force in the past, in order to receive the rehabilitation allowance under the exemption provisions also beyond 52 weeks. In the second section of the proposal: ‘The decision requests the Government to contribute to the enforcement of the law as from 1 January 2005.’» We see that if the proposal were to be adopted, there is no realism in this so far in the year. We propose, in agreement with the Central Party, that other paragraphs be deleted. I would like to stress that in its draft budget SV has full coverage of a full year-round impact when reintroducing previous rules on rehabilitation money. It is also the case that if the proposal were to fall, the proposal of the Workers' Party will be closer to what we want to extend the rehabilitation money scheme, so that we will subsidize proposal No. 2 on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox As far as the budget is concerned, there are many slightly smaller issues that cannot be addressed in a main article, in particular the various greetings to be sent back to different addressees. During the debate of the Committee on Transport, I noted that Fauske would receive funds equivalent to what it would cost to take care of the Stockholm train – approx. Twenty-two million. kr – for refurbishment of Fauske centre. I have to say that it is rather alarming that the majority of the committee chooses to comment explicitly that a newborn ward in Ålesund should be maintained, while having newborn wards spread throughout the whole country. SV has no objection that the food supply should be decentralised, but it must be at the overall level that one discusses how to maintain that offer, and not that one considers one specific place in isolation because there should happen to be someone from the committee that comes right from that place. Then we also notice that the concept of sending greetings home has become increasingly important by including Spain as well. So you're going to get $700,000 to do a slide show on the Sun coast, where, incidentally, now there's also a center for revenmatics, ReumaSol. It is a development we in SV will follow with interest, because we think it might be wise to weigh these measures against other measures that are needed. The fact that rates abroad are good, but there are many others, other than just the Nordics, that may need action.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1599	Ola D. Glötvold has had the word twice and gets the word for a very brief note.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1602	I have not received a response to what is going on in an action plan to prevent osteoarthritis, but it may not be so important. In any case, I would suggest that our proposal, No. 6 is converted into a transmission proposal. Then I have a comment on what Ballo is now saying that we are deleting the last paragraph of our proposal. We also have coverage from 1 January 2005, but it may be a good idea to apply it so that, if our proposal falls, we vote subsidiaryly in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1609	Just to take the small detail first in relation to the representative. What he asked for is mentioned on page 68, second column, entitled ‘Other prevention measures’, in St.prp. No 1 for the coming year. The Chairman of the Committee asked about Ullevål Hospital and Ullevål's special psychiatry situation. I have had a dialogue several times in the autumn, and at the latest yesterday I had the director and managing director of Health East and Chairman and CEO of Ullevål Hospital to explain what actions have been taken on the basis of previous dialogue, and what they intend to strengthen in terms of actions in the coming period. I think it's right to say first what Ullevål's view of what has affected the situation: One has had a very high coverage in the last six months, there has been a critical shortage of medical specialists, there has been a very high level of sick leave in the last nine months, a large increase in patient size, poor construction standards and old structures in management, operation and organisation. Most of these things are things that can happen at any hospital, and that's what we have a management and a board to handle, that things change over time. In the light of the dialogue that has taken place and the situation, the following measures have been taken: specific procedures have now been put in place for the follow-up to regulatory requirements such as: individual level, and it is now implemented by reviewing all journals weekly. It is a special follow-up of the department's management with weekly meetings with the hospital's top management. A review of the department’s documentation on management, organisation and operation is intended to provide a basis for decision-making for further actions. On 23 November, Ullevål received a clear signal to recruit new medical specialists, including increasing specialist staff by two years. There was a clear signal about an increase in the syllabus for subordinate doctors. They were screened for all reductions in 2005, increases in addition to those already introduced will be assessed, and a separate cooperation project for contractual cooperation with the first line service in the Municipality of Oslo has been launched earlier this autumn. In the light of the meeting we had yesterday, the following additional measures have been taken: it is evaluation and changing the organisation in order to find better alternatives for organisation and operation. There's no doubt, I think, that at Ullevål as in very many other hospitals can be a slightly obsolete management organisation. It will be put under evaluation for Ullevål's part. Efforts have been made to provide funds for refurbishment and renovation. Pri 1 on Ullevål is linked to new building for psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1622	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1630	Then we are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1637	In the course of the debate, 36 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3 and 7-19, from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 4 and 25-30, by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on the proposals No. 5, 32 and 33, by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 6 and 34-36, by Ola D. Violent violence on behalf of the Central Party, proposal No. 20, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 21, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party 22 and 23, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 24, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 31, from John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party The President will first vote on the minority proposals, and we will start with proposals Nos 6, 34, 35 and 36, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 36, should it be adopted, would be expected to result in an increase in non-commitments in the next year's budget. Consequently, the proposal is framework-dependent and, in line with the provisions of Section 19 of Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure, cannot be put to the vote. The proposal will therefore be considered to be obsolete. Proposal No. As far as the President has understood, 6 has been converted into a transmission proposal and the text will be amended accordingly. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government draw up during the spring of 2005 an action plan for the prevention of leg driving in the population.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. This leaves the proposal No. 34 and 35.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e1700	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5, 32 and 33, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e5295	There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Social and Health Directorate to provide the Authority with the approval of staffing plans at hospital and at home in order to ensure the professionally sound level of staffing of sick elderly people regardless of their place of residence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e5310	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e5380	We have now come to the proposals No. 22 and No 23, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. In the view of the President, 22 must be understood as an order for the Government to increase the need for the use of funds in the budget for 2005 and as a consequence as a framework. The proposal will therefore not be put to the vote and will be deemed to have lapsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e5400	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to assess the appropriateness of direct deliveries of veterinary medicinal products to professional end-users in the notified call for proposals for medicinal products’.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e5415	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Labour Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to decide how to facilitate the granting of rights to prescribers to decide whether patients should be offered medically assisted rehabilitation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e5431	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–3 and 7–19, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e5434	Proposal No. 18 be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e5441	That is when we vote for all these proposals, with the exception of proposal No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e5544	So, proposal No remains. 18, which has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government return to Stortinget with a proposal for a permanent nationwide regime for chiropractors and manual therapists in line with the rules of the testing scheme in Hordaland, Nordland and Vestfold.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal — and considers it to be adopted. We're going to vote on the motion for a resolution, and we're going to start with box 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e6959	The centre party has announced that they want to vote against it. – There are certainly many others here who want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e6983	IV and V are listed under Framework Area 15, but are independent of the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e6994	We're going to the 16th framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e9214	The remaining Roman numerals listed in the Framework Area 16 but not dependent on the frame then remain to be votered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e9244	It is the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party that are behind the setting, while SV has announced that they will vote in favour. The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e9265	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e9278	It was supposed to be all the voting on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e9285	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Bjarne Håkon Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposal No. 3, from Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party The President makes it clear here that Mr Gunnar Ballo has amended proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox This concerns the last section of this proposal, which provided that the Government would come back with a change in the law per year. 1 January 2005 – it is not possible. The section is then changed – and gone! [[Laughter]] Then the government will come back to it, if it is adopted, when it has to suit. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to review the basis for the calculation of daily allowances on the basis that the benefits received under sickness are also included in the calculation basis for the admission of daily allowances.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e9314	It will then be replaced by an alternative between the Committee's setting and the amended proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e9336	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced subsidiary support for this proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Law on 28 February 1997 No. 19 on social security in order to allow beneficiaries of rehabilitation funds to receive rehabilitation funds under the derogation of up to 104 weeks.’;» [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-08.ana.ud503e9358	There is no record.
