ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e52	An application for welfare leave is made by the Central Party Group for the representation of Morten Lund from 12 November to 16 November. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Vara representative, Karin Galaaen, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e74	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative, Grethe Fossli, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e81	On behalf of the representatives of Olav Aksensen, Bendiks Harald Arnesen, Svein Roald Hansen, Gunn Karin Gjul and myself, I will be allowed to submit proposals for compulsory training of drivers of recreational craft.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e86	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e101	Prostitution has usually become a policy issue when the debate on criminalisation has come, at regular intervals. Today, the debate on prostitution has come a lot because of the growing number of foreign prostitutes, the criminalisation of prostitution in Sweden and the revision of our own law. The aim and the aim of this interpellation is to try to take a step further – that we can discuss, in parallel with the debate on criminalisation or other measures, the opportunities for prostitutes to get out of prostitution. There is no simple solution, and the theme is complex. At the same time, we know that the public conversation helps shape the image of the prostitution arena, and affects the actors in the field. Surveys show that it is believed that approx. 2 500 women work as prostitutes in Norway in one year. Among these, it is approx. 30 to 40 pst. which has a non-Norwegian background. In the debate on prostitution, the question of how to define prostitution is important. One view is that it's free choice, another is that it's forced. I think the very few prostitutes have chosen prostitution voluntarily. I think it usually has a cause like drug abuse, sexual abuse, financial difficulties, etc. It is still the case in our modern society that the female body and sexual services it can offer are seen as a means of exchange and as an object of sale. I think the best help you can give women and men in prostitution is to help them out of this. Here, criminalisation of the purchase of sex is described as one possible measure. The background is that society through the law expresses and signals that this sex purchase is unacceptable. The law shall act as a general precaution and shall protect the girls. In this way, you take into account the girls that have been hit. Today, sex purchases of children between the ages of 16 and 18 are criminalised. This indicates that no one has yet been convicted under this paragraph. In addition, we have the so-called Halik paragraph. Will the law be able to abolish prostitution and provide better opportunities for women and men to get out of prostitution? In Sweden, one has chosen to criminalise the purchase of sex, and considers that this per year. definition is violence against women. The primary objective was to eliminate street prostitution, and then to prevent young people from starting prostitution. Experience shows that street prostitution has been reduced by 41 p.m., but it is not known whether the prostitution has increased. It is said that the law has resulted in 40 convictions per year. years. Dark figures are high, and enforcement has been said to have had its weaknesses, especially in the case of evidence collection. It is said that the backers and the organized crime have increased power, and that street prostitutes bulls to peddlers for protection. In addition, it was claimed that customers do not want to stand up as witnesses to reveal coercion, violence and trafficking in human beings. The Stockholm police have stated that no sex buyer has contributed information that has led to the investigation of trafficking in women and children, or that victims of trafficking have been rescued. The attitude-creating effect has been great, and it reveals sex buyers. The Norwegian police have similar experiences with our own law and evidence. It is stated that this is difficult for the police because it is necessary to document the conclusion of an agreement on the purchase of sexual services, and one must prove that the agreement is being implemented. At the same time, the police are struggling to get women to testify against any backers. Today we have a debate, among other things. in the Women's Movement of the Workers' Party on whether to go the same way, but we have the preliminary country that we want to await the Swedish experience. I agree that criminalisation gives a clear signal, while I believe that we know far too little about the consequences of criminalisation. What does this mean for the girls who are affected? It is important that we do not hit those we really want to protect. Yes, I would like to say that maybe the debate on criminalisation has acted like a sleep cushion, so that we haven't got focus on other measures. Ulf Stridbeck, who led a sample that has provided a report to the Government on prostitution, asks whether criminalisation is necessary and whether governance can be achieved in other ways. What we know about the effects of the legislation in Sweden has made me doubt whether criminalisation is the most effective way to go. Does banning what we don't like help? Can social policy problems be solved by criminal law? I don't think criminalisation can fight prostitution. We can't accept that a law becomes a moral sleep cushion. I believe that prostitution is primarily a social policy issue, that we can limit prostitution by means of good social arrangements, good networking and follow-up. There is a need for information and documentation, so that we get more knowledge about the number of prostitutes, customers, backers, victims of trafficking, etc. What are the reasons why people go into prostitution? Another important issue is demand. Knowledge of customers is also important to discuss measures to reduce this demand. There is a general consensus that more action is needed to help the prostitutes and to give way out of prostitution. There may be health care, psychosocial assistance, legal assistance, help with drug problems, housing, work and education — in short, help to reenter our society. Violence against women in prostitution is serious and must be combated. Violence against prostitutes shall never be allowed to be treated as less important. An important premise and an important objective is that actions must be designed in cooperation with the individual woman/man according to the individual’s needs. A discussion on instruments and measures must be based on possible consequences and impacts, not least their targeting. In my meetings with prostitutes, one in particular has often come back. It's told about many who want out of prostitution, but who have few or no alternatives. It is reported that public agencies lack a knowledge of prostitution and that the law is too rigid. All social security is measured against labour income. Rehabilitation funds are not obtained because they have not declared income. The social office is the last resort. Some have had quite unpleasant meetings with public offices that testify to little respect for fellow people and little willingness to try more to streamline measures. Not least, some of these reports testify to a lack of will and contempt for the prostitutes. This applies, for example: to have their rights met, such as the right to financial support for spectacles, dental practitioners, etc. An important point, therefore, is the establishment of opportunities to provide individual counselling, with educational facilities, so that an alternative to prostitution can be realised. Can the State Council take such an initiative in the Government? The fight against prostitution contains several issues. We know it's about organized crime and trafficking, to mention something. In the last year, over 100 African women have been registered as street prostitutes in Oslo. Most prostitutes in Norway are foreign. This autumn, at least seven West African women have been kept in custody for a long time for violations of the Foreign Affairs Act. It is said that women have been thrown out of the country. What do we do with the victims of trafficking? There is no doubt that the victims need security to witness against the backers. The Church's Emergency Aid has expressed concern that the Norwegian authorities do not properly discharge this responsibility, because the women are sent out of the country even after they have reported matters. Thus, the threshold is likely to be high for participation as a witness. It should be possible to allow victims of trafficking to stay, a minimum should be that they are given temporary residence and protection afterwards. We have to get the backers. If these girls are thrown out, they're less likely to get the backers. Most people probably know that there's a legal case going on in Oslo about this. State Secretary Rita Sletner has said to Dagbladet that it is working on many fronts to combat trafficking. She has said that it is difficult to know if anyone is a victim of trafficking. If they do, they'll have a 45-day reflection time to think about whether they'll cooperate. My question to the Council of State is whether he believes this is a good enough tool in the fight against the backers of organized crime. The police have a lot of responsibility. It is enough that the police function to a large extent as social workers for this group. Again, this is reflected in feedback from the prostitutes. I see that speaking time is over. I still have a little to say about this topic, but I would rather come back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e143	It's going to be a next round, as we know.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e146	I agree that it is important to discuss how best to help those who will get out of prostitution. In this discussion, we must take into account that women and men in prostitution are a complex group with great variation in background and reasons for their entry into prostitution. At the same time, those in prostitution must also be given the opportunity to make representations about which measures they themselves think are most appropriate. There are no simple or unambiguous solutions to how we can help those who want to get out. The solutions must take into account the fact that women and men in prostitution are not a uniform group that can be met with simple instruments from one level alone. We need to find solutions through interdisciplinary cooperation across different sectors. The solutions require insight, knowledge and respect for those involved. Prostitution is a complex phenomenon that primarily has to face social policy instruments, not control measures. Choices of instruments must be based on respect, and we must be able to offer real alternatives that allow women and men to make a different choice than prostitution. We need to talk, not talk. Through the implementation of the Action Plan against trafficking in women and children, I have therefore supported a screening project directed by the prostitutes' association, PION. [[2003-2005]] Here is one of the objectives of finding out what kind of help women and men in prostitution want and/or need in terms of information on rights, and what action they themselves will see taken to get out of prostitution, if they so wish. We have to respect their choices, even if they go across what we think is right. Prostitution measures must aim at preventing anyone from experiencing prostitution as the only alternative. Here we are facing many social policy challenges. The Fafo report has given us insight into the fact that we also face immigration policy challenges where unemployment and discrimination also play a role. In the case of actions directly targeted at persons in prostitution, the authorities support organisations engaged in outreach and other relief activities in the prostitution environment. In Oslo, for example, The PRO Centre, the Church's Bymission prostitution project Nadheim and the PION are key partners of the authorities. These organisations have different support measures for people in prostitution: health services, social and psychological counselling, financial and legal assistance. In addition, the PRO Centre is a national centre of excellence for prostitution and receives a variety of government grants. The Social and Health Directorate co-finances the PRO Centre by 2.5 million. DKK in 2004. In addition to the operational support for the PRO Centre, support is provided from the Action Plan for the Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancy and Abortion and the Strategy Plan for the Prevention of HIV and Sexually Transmissible Infections. Support is also provided for concrete projects under the auspices of the PRO Centre and the Church's Bymission prostitution projects in Oslo and Stavanger. The 2004 grants amount to approximately 0,8 million. kr. In addition, social and health services shall provide support to people who want to quit prostitution, in line with those who are in other situations they will have help to get out of. As Minister of Justice, I am particularly concerned about helping those who are victims of various criminal acts, such as violence, threats and exploitation. In the prostitution environment, there are different degrees of violence, threats and exploitation of women, children and men. Many of the foreign women are indebted to backers or women who have organised the trip and stayed in Norway. Some of these are forced into prostitution against their will and are exposed to gross violence and threats. Others have known that they were going into the sex industry, but not that they would lose the right to control their own body. Trafficking in women and children for prostitution is a very serious crime. Through the implementation of the Action Plan against trafficking in women and children, we are systematically working to meet international and national obligations to help women and children out of the situation as victims of trafficking in human beings. Police, foreign agencies and the work of relief agencies have intensified, and a number of multidisciplinary activities have been established to help those exploited in prostitution to get out of the situation. In the Oslo area, Oslo Police District has appointed a total of 18 contact persons at various stations and sections. These have been added to the competence for prostitution and trafficking in women and children. In addition, a separate investigation team has been set up to investigate trafficking in women and children exploited in prostitution. During the period April–September 2004, the Oslo Police Districts have investigated some of them. 20 issues related to trafficking in human beings. The representative was involved in the relationship with social health services. I would like to point out that there is an agreement between the Grünerløkka social centre and the Social and Health Directorate on emergency reception and follow-up of women who have been exploited in prostitution. In close cooperation with the police and relevant organisations, this shall ensure that practical tasks related to the identification of women and children used in prostitution, temporary residence permits – so-called reflection periods – social assistance such as advice and guidance, necessary housing, safe accommodation, resettlement and return to their country of origin are made available to those who wish to do so. Following the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, practical cooperation has been established to ensure the implementation and coordination of the abovementioned assistance and protection measures for victims of trafficking in human beings, as we call the ‘Oslopilot’. This is meant to be a lowthreshold offer. In this project, Grünerløkka social centre has been given responsibility for the social follow-up on each case. Green Lone Social Centres participate in a multi-disciplinary cooperation forum consisting of representatives from the police, foreign agencies, health services, child protection services and seven selected organisations. The feedback on this project has been positive. In connection with the Oslo pilot project, a nationwide network of several central organisations, police, foreign authorities and social authorities has been established. The purpose of the network is to address challenges that emerge in the course of practical multidisciplinary cooperation to provide assistance and protection. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has set up a working group consisting of representatives of authorities and organisations looking at how best to achieve targeted information for potential victims. Information material shall be developed in different languages on the rights and opportunities for assistance and protection of women exploited in prostitution. The information material will be distributed in the prostitution environment. I hope that this will help more people in the prostitution community seek help and support to get out of the situation. In addition, we have implemented a number of other measures to ensure equal treatment in public services of women being exploited in prostitution. The Police Directorate has drawn up an action card to be used by the police first line service. And it's true, as the representative says, that the police are often in such a social policy first-line service. This provides guidance on how the police are to deal with cases where there is a suspicion of exploitation of the prostitution and inactivity of others. In addition, the Police Directorate has organised a seminar with police officers from all over the country. As part of increasing the quality of the investigation and prosecution proceedings, the Directorate of Police draws up a manual on trafficking in human beings for police districts. In 2005, the Police Directorate will organise regional meetings and training seminars which will contribute to non-discrimination in the various police districts. The directorate of foreign affairs has also published two circulars to the foreign agencies, including the police. One circular is on temporary residence permits for persons exposed to trafficking in human beings, including women exploited in prostitution, the so-called reflection period. The second circular concerns the granting of a work and residence permit to persons who have been exposed to trafficking in human beings. In addition, the Ministry of Justice has set up a multi-disciplinary working group to draw up guidelines for the whole service provider. One of the problems that we're looking for here is how we can identify possible victims. The cooperation group mentioned by the representative Bekkelem Orheim delivered his report on 8 October this year, and we will now look at the consequences of different prostitution regulation before we decide on any legal provision against the purchase of sexual services. From Sweden, we have clear indications that criminalisation affects differently, and that the law has led to women and men in prostitution now in an even more vulnerable and vulnerable situation. It is an important task for the Government to further develop the offer of women who want to quit prostitution and to ensure equal treatment in public institutions. The measures aimed at persons entering or entering prostitution are many. It is only systematic working over time that results in this work, and it takes the government's consequence. At the bottom is always a respect for the women and men involved. The representative between Orheim asked me if it was important to work across – and it is. It's absolutely crucial. Many of the measures I have referred to are just about that. I think the representative and I share the opinion that behind this is a raising of consciousness and a mobilization of attitude, so that you try to see what's going to be the unfamiliar or maybe even the complex and complex, in the best possible way. At the same time, the representative asked Mr Orheim about the possibilities for reflection is important. Yes, it is. At the same time, it may not be so easy to stand up and say that I have been under compulsion. At the moment you do it in the modern media landscape, it's almost like stamping yourself in the forehead that now you've gone into it. We see how complex it is. We have a legal case that is now referred to in the press, about trafficking, where lawyers are using against women who bear a diploma, that the "nearly can be seen as being bought" by the authorities because they are allowed to be here. It is very important that a reflection or a performance be on the premises of women. It is very important that there is an independent choice that is then made. There is great respect for those who then choose to present a diploma – they should be protected. There will also be respect for those who will choose to do something else. I know that Norwegian police in a number of contexts have helped women return to their homeland. I would like to thank the representative, Mr Orheim, for putting this topic on the agenda, and also for the tone she has used in her work on it. That is what encourages – and inspires – visibility and systemicity in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e192	I want to thank the Council of States, and I say that because I mean it, because he has given such a thorough answer to this difficult issue. I also feel that it is necessary for the Storting to take part of these debates in this Chamber much more frequently than we have actually been able to do until now. I agree with many of the things that the Council of State draws up in its response to this interpellation. There is no doubt that we need to get more flexibility in the actions of the prostitutes from the public institutions. Nevertheless, I would like to challenge the Council of State a little bit more at that point, because this is about these girls' meeting with the helper when the policeman is not standing there and can help them any longer. It's about how we, on the part of society, meet the weakest. In fact, I hope that the Council of State can use the power that he has, to press strongly in relation to our public offices, in so far as it is possible to make direct contact with the various departments, let it get through to the social offices how we are going to meet this group. Let's also let go of so square rules that we get in the situation that those who sit as case handlers feel that they do not have the security to provide the necessary help. We were also a bit involved in the police. As the Council of State said, the police have a very great responsibility today. We know that the police themselves often feel like social workers, and I think it is important that we also apply relief measures to this group, so that they can make the job the best possible. There's a lot of things to think about when we discuss this topic. Another important thing is to address the problem with men who buy sex. It's not as simple as an actually should believe in the first place, when you start talking to a part of those who have bought sex. We know that today it's 13 pst. of all Norwegian men under the age of 50 who have actually bought sex. We see that a lot of people who have bought sex have done it when they've been travelling abroad. That is why I also believe that this is about us having to have some ethical guidelines in place. We're always going to have to have a strong public debate about what this actually means for the girls who become a merchandise. I think it's important that we find ways to go to give the prostitutes good lives afterwards. We are now talking, as the Council of State was at the end of its article, about trade and trafficking. There's no doubt that we're here in many ways facing a little bit of dissolved land. We see that the whole prostitution scene in Oslo has changed considerably in a short time, and it also means that we need to be awake and seek new, decisive measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e207	The representative between Orheim and I agree that in the first line you can sit in many places with case handlers who do not always have the experience to meet the complex issues. It is very important – where the representative Bekkelem Orheim and I share the same view – that politicians must then be able to give back cover in order to actually be allowed to dry it. That back coverage goes on to encourage local politicians to enter an ombudsman role, so that they dare to give back coverage to floor leaders, who again dare to give back coverage to those who will meet these people. That's the way I have to work as a government council when I'm going to give back coverage to the police to meet the complex and complex, whether that's the situation that's the topic today, or not to talk about all the situations where the police are practically becoming a first line in mental health. I intend to gather all those who are affected differently by the cooperation situation in the Oslo area, to hear personally what they have to tell, and to make sure that there may be a constructive hierarchy for those in this situation, that they will be able to dry up to each other. I've done it in other contexts. I've done it in the cooperation chain that's going to make people who want to quit drug abuse feel like there's a connection from the police to municipal services and health businesses. Similarly, I am going to initiate such a meeting also among those who are differently affected by the measures I mentioned in the first answer. As far as the police are concerned, we are working very intensively from my department up against the Police Directorate, and the Police Directorate is also working on this because they are deeply involved in it. I think I dare say that there are very many policemen who have gradually got a pretty deep and heavy commitment especially to the trafficking issues because they experience the crime behind it as very raw and cynical, while they are aware that it is complex. We can, of course, by following the case that goes to court these days, bring with us many things to reflect on what is being presented both by the prosecution authorities and by the defence. With regard to the last point, about the purchase of sex, the representative Bekkemel Orheim and I are completely in agreement that it is a matter of having an ethical consciousness. From my point of view, I have to say this: obviously, there are a lot of people who think they're buying feelings, but if you've lived a little bit, you know that you can't buy feelings. Clearly, we need to be aware of the ethical guidelines. The government has put these in place for people in public service. We've had a happy experience that other actors, both in business and in non-governmental organisations, have joined, and that's a way of putting a tone. With regard to the criminalisation debate, I would like to take as a central perspective that what is a social policy problem is going to meet with social policy. Finally, when he gave me the report, the Council of State, the start of social policy before you turn to criminal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e222	The situation for women and men in prostitution is constantly changing. We're talking about a compound group. The measures that need to be taken to help those who want to quit prostitution will vary according to whether they are men or women, foreign or Norwegian prostitutes. The measures must also be seen in the context of the reasons why persons have entered into prostitution, the situation in which they are located, and the possibilities and alternatives they have to break out of prostitution. It is primarily about social policy challenges and instruments. Here, as elsewhere in social policy, measures must be individual and tailor-made. The measures taken by the Government are numerous and differentiated, as they should be in order to be targeted. There are no simple or unambiguous solutions for how we can help those who want to get out. Insight also tells us that we face immigration policy challenges, where unemployment and discrimination play a role. Of important measures, I can mention organisations where governments provide support, among other things. for outreach activities with related actions such as health services, social and psychological counselling, economic and legal assistance. The PRO Centre, which is a national competence centre, receives financial support. In addition, support is given to the Action Plan for the Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancy and Abortion, and not to forget the Strategy Plan for the Prevention of HIV and Sexually Transmissible Infections and Grants for Prostitution Projects, then under the auspices of the PRO Centre, both in Stavanger and Oslo. Prostitutes can also be victims of criminal acts. Trafficking in women and children for prostitution is a very serious crime. Here, the Action Plan against trafficking in women and children is central. These measures have been intensified by police, foreign authorities and auxiliaries, as well as by the establishment of a number of multidisciplinary activities to help them out of a exploited prostitution. Only in Oslo are 18 contact persons appointed at various police stations. Competence and construction are very central to this work. In addition, there will be a separate research group investigating trafficking in women and children exploited in prostitution. The Grünerløkka social service has established emergency services and has the follow-up of women and children exploited in prostitution. The ‘Oslopilot’ is established as a low threshold offer. Different institutions work together on this. It's a prerequisite, and it's absolutely necessary. A nationwide network of different organisations and agencies has also been established. The interpellant has pointed out that non-discrimination is central and that some people feel that this is not sufficient. The Police Directorate has drawn up an action card to be used by the police first line service. Meeting places between departments are established and competence measures are in place. The government will take a closer look at the consequences of different prostitution regulation before taking a position on any legal provision against the purchase of sexual services. In our neighbouring country, there is experience that criminalisation affects differently and that those to be helped come in an even more difficult situation. In any case, action must be further developed and non-discrimination sought.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e239	I will first give tribute to the representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, for having taken up a very important interpellation. I will also give tribute to the Council of State for having been so knowledge-seeking and active in order to be able to deal with a terribly difficult topic wisely, with humility and respect for those involved. Prostitutes are, as has been said, like us: individuals with different backgrounds. There are different reasons why people become prostitutes, just as there are different reasons why people become customers. I think we need to initially have a searching attitude, we need to seek knowledge and conduct further research. I wish the Council of State would also take the initiative that reform, the resource centre for men, got funds, so that they could have a project vis-à-vis the customers, because we have to answer the customers. That's the starting point we especially need. I would also like to encourage you to read the book on May-Len’s ‘When sex is work’, which can say a lot about the situation of inprostitutes in terms of poverty problems, the situation of single mothers, debt problems, etc. – very useful information. I want to focus on the foreign prostitutes, and what has now become quite acute lately. It is with shock that I have registered that the police have used to a large extent instruments that I believe are primarily appreciated by the Minister of Local Affairs, namely that women who have not had valid papers have been thrown out, and thus send a very strong signal to all foreign women who are here as prostitutes, that the police are actually a counter-player and not a co-player. I believe that it is very serious that we have not sent these women a very clear signal that they are going to experience security in Norway, and that is the most important thing. It is then necessary to do as the OSCE representative Helga Konrad has recommended Norway, namely to offer temporary residence permits, so that the period can be used to identify the situation of the individual woman and what is the threat picture around her, and to ensure that she has the necessary security to dry up the witness. Only in that way will we be able to get this real life. I don't think you'd have thrown out any of the witnesses if these things had been drug cases, about financial crime, weapons or anything else. This is simply about women in prostitution, and in particular foreign women in prostitution, not being important enough for us to make the necessary means available. I hope that the Dørum Council will really take care of that, for this is terribly serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e250	This is a very important interpellation, and I give my full support to the description given by the seriousness of the situation. It's also, I think, important to stress that the government is really taking this seriously. All the measures in progress, as explained by the Minister of Justice, are just that. However, I think it is very necessary and right to stress that prostitutes have the same human dignity as any other person. It's so easy to become so that we look down on someone as inferior, like someone we can use and throw. Of course, I am not talking at least on behalf of my own sex. It is we who are largely the ‘criminals’ in this case. Prostitutes have the same human dignity. They must also feel that when they are met by the auxiliaries. It's important that we stress this for each other look and often, in the different societal positions that we have. It's so quick to forget it. It's so fast that it's going to be a coincidence that decides whether we treat people with respect or not, rather than that there's going to be a built-in attitude with us. All people are equally worth it. That's why I'm happy for everything that's been done for just what this interpellation has taken up, to see the seriousness and give back the necessary help and respect. We have the state council statement that you can't buy feelings. I think that's absolutely right. I fully support it. That is why it may also be important that we address some of the areas where this is communicated. We know that the travel industry is an important actor, 80 pst. sex purchases by Norwegian men take place abroad. At school and in the military, we could, for example, use the film "Lilja 4-ever" or other, more appropriate, illustrations, which could have a subsequent discussion. I also want to endorse what the representative of Thorkildsen said, namely that we must consider giving prostitutes who are victims of trafficking amnesty/residence in Norway. We have to give a signal that they will be met with respect and understanding in the auxiliary equipment, so that they can get their case handled in a good way. I also have a question for the Minister: do we have a Nordic-based approach to a witness protection programme, so that we can work together on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e265	It's a fact that the number of prostitutes is rising. In three years, the number of prostitutes in Oslo has increased sharply, and the number of foreign prostitutes is triple. There's an increasing number of African women on the streets, and they're quickly established in the prostitution environment. Everything suggests that there are organised criminals standing back. The interpellant is busy with what can be done to allow prostitutes — both women and men — who want to get out of this environment. It's, as many people before me have said, a composite problem without simple solutions. I think it is very important to travel the debate to see the search light on the facts. As the interpellant has posted the interpellant, there are two main problem options. There is help for those who want to get out of the environment, and there are measures to punish the backers. The interpellant also raises the issue of non-discrimination in public etats. For the Central Party, it is important to stress that everyone who lives in this country is entitled to respect and non-discrimination, regardless of their background. In this way I will give great support to previous speeches from the Christian People's Party, which point to human dignity and the demand for respect. It is unacceptable if public entities do not provide the help they should, to all those who need it. I also thought it important that the Council of State – and he said that – take responsibility for contributing to the functioning of the public apparatus for all. It would be very unfortunate if there were to be an impression that the auxiliaries differed depending on their background. I think it's naive to think that all prostitution can be eliminated. I don't think it's that simple that one through the law will be able to eliminate all prostitution. I support what the interpellant says that we should wait for the report on how the Swedish model has worked. When it comes to the criminal environment, work should be intensified. It is difficult from this point of view to know whether the police are prioritizing this work sufficiently or not. I understand it in such a way at the Council of State that emphasis should be placed on cross-sectoral work. That's what I thought was positive. I also want to commend the Minister of Justice. It seems that he will take the challenges and the issues seriously, and I believe that the Council of State will follow this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e278	This is an incredibly important debate. I would like to thank both the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim for raising the matter and the Council of State for the good answer he gave. I think there are some aspects that it is very important to remember in this debate. The group that we're talking about here is much more complex than all the stylized images we have. Some have a stylized picture that this is the drug addict, the weary woman, while others have a stylized picture that this is Pretty Woman. The picture is the whole spectrum and much more complex in terms of sex, age, background and reason for getting involved. And it's important to remember what kind of instrument you're going to use to reach the group; it has to be complex in terms of both the approach and the channels you're going to use. The left has been clear against criminalisation. With us it is primarily the Left Women's Team that has been driving there. I think it's important not to sacrifice these women as a political symbol against something we don't like. We see what it leads to from violence, more organization, disappearance from the surface so that the streets become clean and fine for us others, while the everyday life becomes even worse for them. I think it's very right of the Council of State to focus on the concept that I probably cannot use here from the pulpit, because everyday life is so horrible, but trafficking, violence and coercion must be the main focus of combating this. I also think it is important that this not only becomes a women's debate. I think it is positive that we have a male council that is very concerned about this, and that there has at least been one man who has spoken in the debate. It is important that this does not just become an equality debate, because it is actually a social policy debate. It's important not just to make this the woman's problem, because it makes the men in it feel even worse. Then I have to say a little thing in the end in relation to the media coverage of trafficking, which I think has been tragic. If ten ladies have gone into the police house, and the media stands and covers which ladies come out, it is easy for any human trafficking organizer to stand outside and count which families to attack at the home. If you don't realize that this everyday life is much more complex, and you don't realize that you can't necessarily publish the conclusion of all the events in relation to these women, then you don't understand how terrible the backland is about this. It has made me quite upset that you don't understand how complex this is, and the terrible everyday life that many people are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e294	The interpellant focuses on the problems of prostitution. The debate on the criminalisation of whore dogs becomes a derailment of the debate, which she rightly points out. Prostitution is a social problem that we have to solve with social instruments. I think it's sad to see how we in society look at prostitutes and also drug addicts. On the street we go great detours around these people. In practice, I don't think it's strange that they feel like a pariah in our society. That's what the Council of State says: it's people we talk about, and not with – and it shouldn't be like that. We must not forget that these are fellow humans who are struggling with their problems. The treatment of these people by society makes life even more difficult for them. Imagine how you would have felt if everyone were walking in a big circle around you, ignoring you and not wanting to talk to you. But what makes it even more difficult for them is the treatment of prostitutes and drug addicts by the police and the municipalities of Oslo. These people are being hunted around the city like wild game. It's unworthy, and it doesn't solve any problems – on the contrary, it reinforces the problems and breaks down the marine image of these people. It is important that we, as politicians, do a job to normalize the relationship with people who are struggling, and that we do not forget that this concerns a wide range of people, as the representative Trine Skei Grande also pointed out. There are people with very different backgrounds, but they have one thing in common: they have either social or economic problems or health problems. The prostitution has become different than it was before. We now see online sales of services, where there are maps of where the girls are around at any time in our country, and the boys who are interested can only make direct contact with them. We see international trafficking in women and children, which has also become a problem in Norway. A few years ago it was quite unreal in Norway, but we experience it in Oslo streets. We also know that children disappear from the reception of asylum. We don't know where they're going, but we know that in the worst case, there could be international human traffickers behind them. Half of the prostitutes in Oslo today are foreign girls. This summer we saw that there were large groups of African girls. We don't know much about these girls and their fates, but we know that there are backers behind them. It's very good that the police now act, but what's unfortunate is if these girls are just thrown out. If the police are to witness, it is important that we take care of these girls and ensure that they are protected, but also that they are able to testify. As the interpellant said, the criminalisation of whore dogs is a derailment of the debate. This is a social policy debate, and we need to find social policy instruments to combat prostitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e309	Prostitution is a pretty broad concept, and you've come up with that. But it is also true that, in that context, you might also have to look beyond mere handovers of cash. There are certainly those who believe that some other contexts tend to and approach prostitution. We remember that at the end of the 1800s there were some people who thought that women needed to get married in order to get a safe everyday life, also tended to be prostitutes. You talk about trafficking and the relationship with prostitution. When it is seen that this goes cross-border, and when it may be related to drug trafficking, it is clear that this is a major international shift. To get a grip on and do something about the trafficking situation, it is also very important to start from the country of origin. In the Council of Europe, the Committee on Immigration, Refugees and the Population has worked part on the issue of trafficking. What you see is that the so-called threat of represals also extends over a long range. It's all from the pure, common fear of something physical to parents pledge their assets to their girls having the opportunity to get a job in the West. This means that even if you have a good relationship with your home country, the family can be deprived of all its assets if their girls don't fill the quota, for example. Three years' work, although the work they were suggesting was quite different from what they received. Prostitution also affects women, children and men. What you see is that the customer base you used to relate to is now changing. I think it's quite clear that women's purchases of sexual services are increasing. It's also the case that prostitution, as said by previous speakers, is not just a matter of pure organized gangs. It is also a question of – especially in the area of network use – everything from cooperation to individuals. I think we're going to be very careful about criminalising, which is probably going to create more fear and worse conditions to see what's actually going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e322	I want to say that it's a little bit good to be able to discuss in this room with such a starting point of political consensus, because that's not so often we have. It also gives the Council of State very much security when he is going to face this matter in public space, that he knows that he has the full support of the Storting and Opposition for the work he is doing. I think that's very positive. The representative, Schou and several other speakers, were also involved in social policy measures. I don't think there's any doubt that to the extent that social affairs can come up with a fine-skinned network of measures against this group, it will be very, very positive. I fully agree with all that Mr. Inga Marte Thorkildsen said. She pointed to an important cause, namely poverty. I think that this implies that we must always have an unfair social housing policy. We need to have a policy that makes lone-parents manage on a relatively low income. We have to keep in mind that our society is changing, not least in relation to the group of lonely people, who now and then have major problems in being able to establish themselves in our largest cities. The representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen said something that I think we should all remember, that all people are as much worth, anyway. He was also concerned, as the representative of Trine Skei Grande, that men must take responsibility. This is often the case when we discuss these questions in this room, that there are women who are engaged, and I would encourage all my male colleagues to take an active part in these debates in the time to come. Sollied Överaas was concerned that it might be naive to believe that we can remove the world's oldest profession, and I can agree with her in that. However, there cannot be a resting place for us to fail to take good action against this group. I think at least that we can establish one thing after this debate that the Minister of Justice can bring back to the Government, and that is that there is no hearing in this room for the criminalisation of the prostitutes. So I want to end by referring to those who have said that the scale of how good a society is to live on, is just how we can take care of the most weak in society. I think we should think about that every time we make a decision and in all policy-making. Then I think we too had managed to help this group to live a better life in our municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e339	Let me first give some concrete information about the most serious backland, which we all agree on, namely trafficking. This year the police have been away in 42 cases where there have been suspicions of trafficking in human beings, and 36 cases of malpractices involving foreign branches. Some of the complexity is illustrated by the following information: One of the cases concerns 124 residents in 21 countries. At the moment, there are five police districts and the Catch unit working to translate information and knowledge for criminal use. This leads me to the seriousness that is affected by several representatives. Is it that we, for example, in the utmost sense when it comes to the protection of witnesses, does Nordic cooperation exist? Yes, we do. It's a setup that we're working on to build up, so it's going to work well. Then the representative Thorkildsen raised the question of how well you practice the knowledge of the reflection period. I guess I have no reason to doubt that the police don't have the best intentions. But in order to be absolutely sure that the purpose of the reflection period and what lies behind the possibilities of foreign policy in such a context is best practised, I will go through my department and along with the Police Directorate through current experience to be absolutely sure that this is handled in practical terms in such a way that we are confident that knowledge reaches. So I would generally say that I have no reason to say that it's not like that, because, as the representative Skei Grande was in, it's probably some of the circumstances that you should probably not immediately announce that you are now notifying yourself for service to the authorities. We must be sure that the reflection period is also handled in such a way that confidence can be created. I am convinced that all those who work on it will be prepared to join in. That's why I express myself that way. So one last comment: I guess I can't leave it undisputed that it's the police's purpose to hunt prostitutes and drug addicts. That's not how I feel. But I think we should be humble enough to admit that it is not always that the transition from the police, which should not use the criminal justice system more than strictly necessary, to local health and social services and the health care of the state is flexible enough. That's why I've actually spent a lot of time running what you can call ‘silent relaxation’ to make sure that there are good contacts right here, so that the practical everyday life should be the way we would ideally be, that those in need of help should get help, and not be exposed to anything else. But I think it's important that the issues are addressed from the Storting Chair, and I'll choose to answer that by saying that I'm taking those challenges with the greatest seriousness. So I would like to thank you for having a calm reflection on a complex topic, and I agree with the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim that we are not trying to solve social policy problems with criminal policy instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e352	Then the interpellation debate in case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e367	‘Human violence against women in close relationships is a global phenomenon of considerable scale and constitutes a serious social problem. That such violence continues without sufficiently effective penalties against abuses is a major obstacle to equality and is a major crime problem.» This is a quote from the introduction to NOU 2003:31, the right to life without violence. The family violence coordinator scheme was launched in 2001. Now the police work on family violence should be given a new boost in quality, priority and seriousness. As of 1 July 2002, the scheme was to be set up, and each police district was to have a family violence coordinator. Violent and threatened women were now to be treated in a completely new way by the police. SV has been very positive to this all the way. We've tried to be drivers to get the system in port. By asking questions, holding meetings with the parties involved and otherwise cheering up those who have been on the way to success, we have tried to help make the process as good as possible. And it's to be said that it hasn't always been easy to get clear answers on the stand out there in police Norway. At least there's been a certain gap between the answer we've received from department teams and the input we've received from the base plane. A report has now been prepared by the Directorate of Police at the request of the Ministry of Justice, where the success of the scheme has been assessed. It is sad to note that the report almost slaughters the police's efforts at the coordinator system. I quote: ‘Since there is so much feedback on insufficient resources for the Family Violence Coordinator function, masters should review their allocation of resources and the central authorities and politicians should either allocate more money or modernise the objectives of the work in this field. Achieving full objectives in relation to the wishes and demands of politicians and public opinion seems to be totally unrealistic with the resources currently devoted to this work.’ A report from the responsible directorate on the details of a slaughter shall be made. My main concern with this interpellation is therefore to clarify how the Ministry of Justice intends to follow up the conclusions of this report. Then I believe that it does not last to show that more money is now being allocated to the police, which we support. All those who have taken a close look at this know that it also needs to be more closely involved – be guided by the use of money, prioritisation of statistical tools, training of coordinators and general interest on the part of the police management. The Women's Violence Committee is one of those who have made clear recommendations to the Ministry of Justice regarding the family violence coordinator scheme. They believe it is necessary to earmark the appropriations for these posts, so that we can be sure that this field is prioritised in all police districts. It is unacceptable that at the time of the evaluation, only four out of ten police districts had a family violence coordinator in the 100 p.m. position. If we take a closer look at the job manual of a family violence coordinator, we see that a coordinator should: provide coordinating responsibilities for the overall efforts of the police district to reduce family violence as a resource person for the holdings and relevant departments by contributing to a coherent, consistent and good quality treatment, be up-to-date in the district’s efforts and promote proposals for procedures and methodological development to assist in building up skills at the holdings and departments concerned, and provide support for contact persons and investigators to have good knowledge of the ability of other agencies, institutions and organisations to contribute adequately to the follow-up and to be a resource person in the contact between police and victims of violence, to initiate work on establishing good cooperation practices with other departments, institutions and organisations related to violence; It is certainly unnecessary to point out that it is impossible to fill the role of coordinator if it comes to the top of a number of other tasks. The Chief of Police has the right responsibility to assess the amount of resources needed in this area. But as the report says: ‘If the proper prioritisation and continuity of this function are to be ensured, most people consider that «fresh» and «earmarked» means are necessary.’ And on the other hand, ‘We’ll see, from the answers we’ve received, that this is far from the reality most districts report.’ Therefore, my simple question: what will the Council of State do in concrete terms to ensure that the family violence coordinator system is successful?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e427	Let me begin by making it clear that the Government is serious about the efforts to combat violence in close relations. Violence taking place within the four walls of the home is not a private matter, but a public matter to be combated with the same intensity as other serious crimes. That the arrangement of family violence coordinators does not work as well throughout the country, I agree. In order to ‘take the pulse’ of the scheme as well as to highlight the course for further development, I took the initiative in January this year to evaluate the scheme. The evaluation report was available in August and showed relatively large differences between districts in prioritisation of this work. I have asked the Police Directorate to draw up a strategy on how to follow up the results of the report, and will wait to decide on the possible allocation of funds to the Police Directorate's strategy proposal. In order to contribute to the overall, consistent and good quality treatment of issues related to violence in close relations, the police established on 1 July 2002 a system of family violence coordinators in each of the 27 police districts of the country. The coordinator shall ensure that the victims of violence and their relatives meet with understanding, knowledge and insight from the police, both human and police. This can help lower the threshold for contacting the police and thus contribute to more reviews. The establishment of family violence coordinators, the quality assurance of the work being done and the development of competence are regulated in the Directorate-General for Police instructions of 15 April 2002 and the Directorate-General for Police circular 18 for 2002. The circular indicates that the coordinator shall perform the following tasks: provide coordinating responsibilities for the overall efforts of the police district to reduce family violence as a resource person for the holdings and relevant departments by contributing to a coherent, consistent and good quality treatment, be up-to-date in the district’s efforts and promote proposals for procedures and methodological development to assist in building up skills at the holdings and departments concerned, and provide support for contact persons and investigators to have good knowledge of the ability of other agencies, institutions and organisations to contribute adequately to the follow-up and to be a resource person in the contact between police and victims of violence, to initiate work on establishing good cooperation practices with other departments, institutions and organisations related to violence; Local adaptations to the work of the coordinator are open based on the extent of family violence and organisational and geographical assumptions in the district. It is the police chief's responsibility that this be followed up in his own district. Per. The system of family violence coordinators was established in all police districts in May 2004. In one district, the position was temporarily unoccupied, but a new one was under employment. The proportion of work related to family violence varies greatly between districts. Only four districts state that they have coordinators of 100 pst. position. The remaining figures show that the employment rate used for the function varies between 10 and 75 pst. Of which 11 districts state that the function is set at 50 pst. position or less. In other words, most coordinate positions are assigned to a number of other tasks. Based on figures from the districts that have comparable figures on an annual basis, development shows that the number of cases of family violence coming to the police’s knowledge has increased by about a quarter. 50 pst. from 1st quarter 2003 to 1st quarter 2004. The reasons for this may be more, but it is likely that the focus on these issues has increased, and that more people thus contact the police to get the necessary help. With regard to the evaluation report, there is a broad consensus between the police and coordinators that the family violence coordinator scheme is important, but that it competes with other rural tasks, the Riksadvokat priorities and other action plans. Both the employment rate and the choice of ananisatory solution for the scheme vary considerably between districts. Some coordinators are asking for more central frameworks and guidelines on how the scheme should actually be organised. The statistical execution of family violence appears to be largely deficient. 22 coordinators respond that they conduct statistics, but according to half, enquiries/cases that do not lead to prosecution decisions are often not recorded. This means that a number of the enquiries made by coordinators are not visible, and thus police officers do not have sufficient information to assess and prioritise resource needs. Most coordinators, 22, report that they have established cooperation with other agencies/institutions in the district, as assumed in the police directorate’s circular on the scheme. Only four of the coordinators said they had no network in place. The report does not show how the coordinators feel that cooperation with the other service provider is working. 17 of the coordinators report that they have been professionally updated on the tasks they were assigned to carry out. Ten respond that they are not or lack the skills they need. However, there are several people who point to the need for more knowledge in relation to minorities. Half of the police officers and 11 of the coordinators believe that the objective of the scheme, as demonstrated by the police directorate's circular, has been achieved to a large extent. Only one police officer and six coordinators believe that the objective has not been achieved. To address changing needs, eight police officers respond that there is no need for change. Three police officers want 100 pst. the position of this function and seven want them to be able to give higher priority to this task. The vast majority of coordinators want more time for this function, and several point to the need for better statistics and higher priority of this type of case. In this report to which I have referred, the Directorate of Police concludes that, despite the fact that the scheme is established in all the districts, the work can continue to develop clearly better. The partial massive feedback on insufficient resources to the function suggests, in the opinion of the Police Directorate, that police officers need to review the allocation of resources in their own districts. Finally, the Police Directorate recommends that a broad evaluation be carried out of the police's work on family violence, which also allows violent and external partners to express experiences with the police's work. In my opinion, the report provides a transparent picture of the status of the family violence coordinator scheme two years after its establishment. However, the results indicate that the potential for further development is high. The variation between districts in the priority of the family violence field may appear to be greater than the actual distribution of the number of cases in this area. The police director’s call for the function to be performed only exceptionally, also does not appear to have been followed up. In addition, statistical reporting appears to be deficient. With reference to Action 24 of the Government's Action Plan on violence in close relations, which states that the police's work on violence in close relations is to be further developed, I have asked the Police Directorate to develop a strategy for monitoring the results of the report. The strategy shall pay particular attention to proposing measures to help balance the relatively large differences between districts in the priority of this work. I want to base this strategy paper on the systematic effort to strengthen this work across the country, for the benefit of the victims of violence in close relations. I agree with the representative of Thorkildsen that there is more to be done, but I cannot agree that we have not achieved important results. We've done it because we've started with a race, and because it's important in such a race always to be self-critical and experience-seeking, we've done an evaluation. The evaluation provides knowledge and insight. The knowledge and insight I have is that the Directorate of Police will come back to me with, with a view to strengthening the system. There's no other way to think about it. But I want to give the Police Directorate that opportunity, and I want to, as I said at the outset, wait for that feedback before I decide on any earmarking of funds. My intention, however, is quite clear: this system must be strengthened. It's too awkward now. The relationship reported back in the evaluation also makes an impression on me, so it is a matter of course I will follow up very carefully. So I would like to add that, as a result of the work of family violence coordinators, much more issues have been raised in the public domain. We have had a broader public debate. But there is no doubt that by addressing this, we are not just touching the police's work. We also affect other bodies in society. We address the issue of the ability of family protection offices and the possibility of meeting victims of family violence. We affect the social offices, the conditions of child protection and health care. All of these conditions are in my mind that in the further development of the system we need to get on an agenda, so that the police will succeed. It is that the police, who have to do their job, must also know that other agencies are available and fully up-to-date in order to take care of the system. Then, of course, I get into more than the family violence coordinator system. Then I come up with various measures in connection with the Government's Action Plan against violence in close relations. In conclusion, I would like to say that we have just had a conference under the auspices of the Oslo Council of Europe, where we have just gone through violence in close relations, and where I said quite openly that we have started a work that is demanding, which is systematic, and we have come a great deal, but we have much more to do. It's an attitude that many took with them as inspiration. I have the impression that we in Norway should be good. There is no excuse for us that when traveling to many countries, I feel that it is a non-theme to take this seriously. That is the standard we set for ourselves, as the representative has also put the search light on, which applies to us in this country. It is the one that also applies to my work on this matter and with the further follow-up of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e497	It is often said that patience is a virtue, but I think the jam is a virtue to be impatient too. I agree with the Council of State that of course positive things have also happened. But the overall picture, the conclusions that come from the Police Directorate's own report, is that it's pretty gloomy prospects for this system if we don't take any pretty clear action from management teams. However, I would like to draw up Westfold police districts. Vestfold is incidentally my home state, but it is a very good example that it is possible to succeed if you have a tough police officer who dares to give priority. Nor should we hide the fact that within the police it can be quite challenging and demanding to get a quite human-dominated corps to look at this with new eyes and not consider it a private matter, as it was done earlier, but to raise it as at least as important as for example. drug issues and other issues. But at least in Vestfold, the police officer Hans Sverre Søvold and family violence coordinator Camilla Grimsetth have got the number of reported cases dramatically. I guess as far as I know, they were out first. The staff of the district are given the competence, the management of the cases are streamlined, all information is logged, close cooperation with other public authorities, and even an application has been sent on behalf of several local authorities to obtain funds to launch Alternatives to Violence in the South region. Unfortunately, the application has been rejected by the Ministry of Justice. It should not be that it depends on where you live in the country, whether the police have chosen to give priority to family violence or not. It is also not a good signal when, almost 2 and 1/2 years after the scheme was implemented, the Police Directorate has not produced statistical tools that capture family violence. Police chief Truls Fyhn characterized this in the following way when the VG interviewed him about this in June: ‘It is incomprehensible that the computer system is not in order for the longest. It's too bad we don't have numbers. The consequence is that we need to use qualified vision in order to have a certain overview. In June 7, this year, we were able to read an opinion from a frustrated family violence coordinator – which was also the case. He says, ‘I can tell you how many bikes were stolen in our district last March. But I can't say how many children were involved in family violence." This is embarrassing reading for us as justice politicians and for Dørum as the responsible state council. My question is: does the Council of State agree that we do not have information about the vital aspects of our society, information about human health, and, in the worst case, their lives? There I think the answer is no, but I would like to have specific feedback on what you intend to do with the inadequacy of the police directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e518	It's a great virtue to be impatient, and it's also a great virtue to be tough. Then we can see it so that at the intersection of Inga Marte Thorkildsen and me as the Council of State, it might be how to get the answers. In her additional comment, we get on the table first of all what should be improved, and which I openly talked about in my post, and then, of course, it turns out that we also challenge attitudes internally in a department. There's no doubt about it. The good example is Westfold. I'd like to mention other examples, but Westfold gets to stand undisputed because it's good. When I wait for the police strategy plan, it's because I expect the Police Directorate to address such internal organisational and cultural challenges, to be sure that a case is raised and taken seriously. Indeed, in many contexts in the police, the earring of the past has not always led to results. If you were to label the ear, for example. a specific position, of course, depends on the person’s willingness to participate in it throughout the body. If you sit alone, you don't come anywhere. It's just through the width, as illustrated by the example of Westfold, and to the extent that the insight we've been given to those who are working on these issues here in Oslo, the pioneers who started at Stovner, and who have also achieved organisational back coverage in the Oslo police district – it's taking care of these features that the system will be good. That is why, in addition to the evaluation I asked for, called 'Everything on the table', I have also asked for a strategy plan to clearly improve this. Then I have the confidence in the Directorate of Police that I will get back a set of tools. In this context, I will reserve the right to openly assess whether I should go into the ear tag that the representative Thorkildsen asked me about, as I also said in my opening reply to her. I think it's important that we've managed to raise something that's been gone so long, so much. I have a political slogan that perhaps unites the representative and me, namely that we should be proud of what we have done, but we should not be content. We always have to make sure that what's good is going to get better, and that what's not good enough is definitely going to get better. So I stick to that slogan in this area. So I'd like to add: I've learned a good slogan from the Norwegian women's movement that goes on the glass wall: when you lift up some cases, people listen politely to you, and then they don't do anything about it. I think we're close to that concept of family violence, no matter where we move among Norwegian citizens, inside or outside the police. For my part, I have great toughness and do not let myself stop from that glass wall, just as the representative Thorkildsen is impatient to ensure that it should not be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e527	It's an important topic that the interpellant addresses, and I also want to give praise to the Council of State for a good and complementary response. The vast majority of the parties on the Stortinget have been engaged in the fight against violence in close relations over the last few years. There is no doubt that violence taking place within the four walls of the home is not a purely private matter, but a public matter to be combated in the same way as other crimes. For this reason, the initiative of the Council of State to evaluate the scheme is important, and I think it is absolutely necessary for the Directorate of Police to draw up a strategy on how to follow up the results of this report. It shows that work has been taken seriously and that priority is given to it. The Justice Committee has traveled a lot in the police districts lately. We often address the issue of family violence and ask for a briefing on what is being done in that area. As I've seen it, unfortunately, there's too much variation in how high a priority this has, compared to other areas. It shouldn't be like that. For too many years this has been an area that unfortunately has not been among the most prestigious tasks of the police. Fortunately, with the efforts of the Minister of Justice and the establishment of family violence coordinators, the situation has changed a lot, but still considerable work remains to be done. It is a fact that the position of family violence coordinator is reduced and reduced and downgraded in many police districts. It shows the evaluation report. It concluded that there are major differences between districts in the priority of this work. My concern is that family violence coordinators are being used for other tasks because of the economic situation in the department. We can't go in and manage the budgets, but the Storting has repeatedly expressed and made clear that resources are going to be set aside for just this. There is only one of these positions in each police district, and then it is a pity that this should become a balancing post. The vast majority of coordinators want more time for this function, and several point to the need for better statistics and high priority of this type of case. I welcome the fact that the directorate wants a broad evaluation of the police's work on family violence, which also allows violent and external partners to express experiences with the police's work. After the coordinators have put in place, matters in many districts have also increased considerably, which is positive to be brought to light. However, the results indicate that the potential for further development is high. There is an important work going on in this field, and I trust that the Council of State follows up what the report shows, in a thorough manner and ensures that victims of violence in close relationships get the help they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e542	Family violence is a clear problem and goes all over the family. In order to ensure the necessary knowledge and prioritisation, family violence coordinators were introduced. This shows that we prioritise this work and want to keep it in focus. Home security must apply to everyone. That's why you have to fight violence that takes place where you have the greatest reason to feel safe. The most important thing for us is that the police districts have the competence and one that has a coordinating responsibility. Whether the one in charge has an entire position, or if one organizes more in a network, is not the most important thing for us, because it strictly does not hurt if more people get a share of the knowledge and skills. We're somewhat uncertain whether earring is the right way to go. We think it would be to split up the police's overall tasks into various earmarked actions for the areas that we want to raise at any time. I'm afraid that ringing could prevent the possibility of some local adaptations that might give the very best result. First to label family violence, then to label drugs, then to morality, etc. will probably only lead to fragmentation and an unfortunate blight in relation to the various earmarked actions, which, in turn, can quickly reduce cooperation internally in the policy areas. We see in several places that barking in and on its own is more harmful than beneficial. We believe that the best solution is probably to focus on the problem, to show that this is something we still want to be a priority task, and to strengthen the police's ability to fight crime through increased appropriations. I believe in itself that having some earmarked resources that you're spreading around can give a good signal, but if that's going to give the best result, I'm more uncertain about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e551	A life of freedom and opportunity for life requires legal certainty and security for life and health. Preventing and combating crime is therefore one of the Christian People's Party and the Government's most important tasks. Without security, the absence of intrusion and the freedom of individuals, our living conditions deteriorate considerably. Our ambition and our goal is that violence in all forms must be combated. In our modern and open society there are few taboos. However, violence is a taboo area that still exists. The perpetrators don't boast that they're beating. At least the few do it. Violence against women and children gives no respect or status. The victims rarely tell us about the abuses they are subjected to. You fear the condemnation of not being ready for a final breakup. As a result, victims of violence refuse to contact the emergency services and the police. Unfortunately, the threshold for the perpetrator to seek help on his own initiative is also often very high. Domestic violence is not a private matter. No matter where and how violence happens, it's to think of it as a social problem. The physical and mental consequences for those who are subjected to violence and abuse are great. Family violence is a serious crime problem. That's why it's important with what we're talking about now, family violence coordinators, that we focus on someone in particular being responsible for following it up. I am recording what has been said so far in this interview today. I record what is available from results and studies, and also the dissatisfaction that the interpellant has expressed in connection with this, which is also acceptable to many of us, not to the system as such, but not to the results that are expected. It's important that we focus on this, so that we show that this is something that we take seriously. Then I want to add that often someone knows concretely that there is an infringement – and some, we may be sitting here on the Storting. When someone knows, a liability arises. We have to offer our help and tell them off. We simply have to dry to be fellow humans. For many victims of violence, people in the community who care, are the very prerequisite for a life of freedom without abuse. Then the other, the public, gets to be additional goods or helpers that can help to eliminate what is both degrading and destructive in the family. We have our problem. We have to see it, and then we have to have the other as an aid and auxiliaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e564	The number of contacts with the Child Protection Guard in Oslo has increased from 302 in 2001 to 496 in 2003 and an increase in the number of contacts related to family violence in a state such as the Sør-Trøndelag from 86 in 2002 to 357 in 2003 clearly shows that family violence needs have been and are high. The work done in recent years has increased the visibility of this problem. It's in itself positive. It is positive because many of the dark numbers that have undoubtedly been associated with this work have been removed as a result, among other things. the work done in connection with the family violence coordinator in the police districts. Nevertheless, there has been a lot of frustration about the issue of the family violence coordinator. It's also understandable. I understand that there is some frustration attached to it. It's an area where I think many people feel that they don't have enough competence, and where a little special competence is required. I think it's an area where many of the people involved feel that a lot of work needs to be done and that more attention should be paid to prevention. I also understand the discussion about whether this should become a special area within the police force, or whether it should be part of the general activity of the police. I also think many people feel it is a dilemma whether they can manage to get to a broad enough investigation, or whether because of resource scarcity they can only investigate exactly what is most necessary to send the matter to judgment, that they feel that they cannot get into the problem with the necessary breadth and thoroughness. I therefore believe that the debate on the development and work of family violence coordinators is very relevant. It is also very important to have now received the evaluation report on the table initiated by the Council of State. I have no particular idea whether it should be a ringing or not. I think it can both have disadvantages and advantages. But I think it is very important that the evaluation report now presented, as well as the elements taken up by the inter-pellant, can further improve the system and provide those who work with it today, both greater space, greater opportunity and perhaps also a sense of security in terms of competence and in relation to prevention and post-employment. So the evaluation report available, as well as what has been raised here today, gives the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice a good opportunity to prepare a system that I believe is important and that has come to be. It should also provide the Government with an opportunity to strengthen the scheme resourcefully. In the opinion of the Center Party, there is an opportunity the Government should not let go.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e573	This is an important topic, and I think the main focus in particular on the child's legal certainty is very important. While adults who get turned off by another adult when you're in town go to report, a child who's being observed gets a message of concern. There is a difference in the approach of children and adults to this problem. That means to be able to crack this problem, it requires that you have a line, not just a police coordinator, but that you have a line from the teacher who sees, to the child protection that gets heard, to the police that can do anything. That line has to be connected locally everywhere. When we've tried to do it here in Oslo, so that every school should have a contact person in Child Protection and a contact person in the police, a policeman you know, that you can call, and a child protection person you know, that you can call, you talk about making such lines that make the children have the legal security that adults think is seaworthy – and it's very often someone who knows. It is not so often in connection with family violence that someone knocks on the police and says that you are being beaten. Most of the time, it comes from someone who knows and takes care of it. Then we have to create channels that make it easy for the teacher who knows, to know where to go in order to get what he knows. Then I very much agree when the Advance Party is talking about earring in principle. But that's not the discussion here. The discussion here is primarily about turning a culture around. It's about a unit that's been working against crime, which is going to try to find a new type of crime. I think we have so much understanding of the police's work that we know that these are perhaps the worst doors to open. That means we have to turn cultures. We have to reverse thinking, and we have to make people competent to know how to deal with what they see when they open that door. I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for being so brave that he has dared to prioritize this and dare to focus on turning these cultures around. I think it's important that we here at Stortinget give the council a wide pouff in their backs. We can show impatience, but also show that turning a culture into such a big unit is a big job, which requires broad political consensus behind it to achieve goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e585	According to police attorney Shak R. Haaheim, an average family violence case costs about 1 million. kr. The Women's Violence Committee believes that at least 20,000 people are exposed to family violence this year. Probably more. That gives the price tag $20 billion, about four times the police's total annual budget, twice the Lillehammer-OL or 40 times the insurance companies pay in compensation for the profitability every year. According to VG, Haaheim is until recently the only police lawyer in the country with family violence as a special field. According to the same newspaper, the police attorney must have taken the consequences of the lack of commitment to family violence, and will no longer have the chargeable professional responsibility for these matters at the Stovner Police Station. Also family violence coordinator Stein Erik Olsen expressed the desire to stop, but was persuaded to continue. I think it is particularly sad that Stovner, who was known as one of the preliminary stations for family violence, now apparently released some of the roof on this. But in that case they are not alone. Several family violence experts shall have ceased or wished to end in the last year, due to the lack of commitment. When we read the report, it is not difficult to see that it is far from the celebrations that were held in 2001 and 2002, to the reality of the day. That's a disappointment, that's a loss of public confidence, and that's how we lose valuable competence. There are several people who have pointed out how difficult family violence is and that a culture needs to be turned around. Among other things, the representative Trine Skei Grande mentioned it. Culture takes a long time to turn around. Therefore, my question concerns earmarked appropriations. It's about a possible transition period to turn cultures around faster. When you start political prestigious projects – and this was a very nice project, which we have committed to 100 pst. back, and I think it is very good that the Dørum Council has been so active in relation to this topic – I think it is important that it also comes with fresh funds. If we don't risk getting very far between the expectations and the actual result. In such serious cases, where we know that it can often be fatal, it's very dramatic if you can't meet the expectations that people actually get. I am pleased that the Council of State has taken the initiative of the Police Directorate to develop a strategy, but I believe that there must be power behind any demands. I was going to draw up some examples of what kind of power you can put behind the demands, and then especially in relation to the police officers. Clearly, although there are tight budgets in police Norway, there are some police officers who have actually managed to prioritize it. Some police officers did not respond to the survey, even within the deadline. You had to put on reminders and reminders, and it gives a signal that this might not be so important. Then I believe that the Directorate of Police must respond to them. In addition, the Directorate must set a good example and draw up the analytical tool and statistical tool that they are actually going to do. State councils said you're dependent on the rest of the police force. Yes, but then management must be active.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e598	To make one thing very clear: it's my impression that those who deal with family violence in the police are deeply motivated and committed people, that they burn for this, and that, precisely because they see things, they can sometimes experience that they see results, but they can also experience frustration. I just want to make it absolutely clear that I think it's because those who go into this, care about it. I'd like to have said that, so that message should be perfectly clear, that as the chief chief of police, I mean to have seen that commitment and that will. I agree with what has been said in the Stortinget today that we need to ensure that there is an organisational anchoring and security. It happens in two areas. First of all, it happens in relation to the entire police force in the individual police district, and then it happens in relation to other public authorities, that is, the long chain that the representative Skei Grande was in and that the interpellant also took up. Then I guess, when I asked for both the evaluation and the strategy plan, they thought that of course it's a management challenge to deal with this. It's not my job from Stortinget's pulpit to consider how it's handled, but it's a management challenge. Then I'm strong because you take the very best examples, and then you say, what did you really do here where you have these best examples? How did you do that? What can you take with you? I have also had both the challenge and the incentive to meet the fires that started at Stovner, and I know how at least at that time a broader organisational anchoring had been provided in the very management of this work in the Oslo police district. Then I feel that you have had a fight, a reaction from the top management, and it is precisely the sensitivity that the fires that have been assigned to these jobs deserve. So they deserve the ear of management, and that leadership is from the top a constitutionally responsible state council, it is a police director with a system apparatus and a police officer with a commanding force in each district. I expect that it will come out of the strategy plan that I have asked for, how this mobilisation will be carried out properly, and how the instruments will be good enough as practical tools. Then I think it is right to draw attention to the fact that the police's action against violence is significantly strengthened by the upgrading that has taken place, that we have received mobile violence alarms that connect directly to operating centres, and that we have log systems that allow you to see the matter when you get it. In this way, practical security can be strengthened. There is no doubt that the government's two mobilization plans against violence in close relations, the first one, which started in 2000, and the one that is renewed, are very important tools. I assure the interpellant and the Storting that this I have great commitment to, and I'm going to follow up the commitment. I'm going to act that way that when I use power, I prefer to do it first by encouraging. Should it be necessary to do it in other ways, I shall not be afraid to do it, if it proves necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e613	Case No. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e628	Criminal care and the way we organize it affects a lot of people. In many areas, the Council of State has been concerned with the relatives in relation to its work. There are relatives who want to be the relatives and relatives who feel that they have to be the relatives. Then there's one group of relatives that's just related, and that's the children. I know that the Council of State, among other things, the state budget has now focused on this, especially in relation to women. But there are also very, very many dads who are in prison. For many adults who are in that father's role, it is sometimes important to hide from their children that they are in prison. I've heard many stories about fathers who've tried it, but children understand incredibly much more than you think. I have met several people who have been very concerned about this topic. One of these dads, who's at Kroksrud, writes to me: ‘The cardboard group can be briefly described as an activity day outside prison every three Saturdays with prisoners and our children. In addition, there is one conversation group every two weeks in prison. The starting point for the father group has always been – and will always be – the need for children to have contact with their fathers on their own premises. Here we get to know our children again, and of course it has an important self-esteem. Feedback from mothers, kindergartens and schools on better functioning children underlines the need for this contact. It's in the father group we really see the consequences of the wrong choices we've made. As we go through this process, it is also good to know that the damage we have caused to our children in our absence is limited. In most cases, imprisonment has also led to a weakening of contact, or to a break with mothers. The father group provides a foundation for rebuilding this relationship as well.A close relationship with their children and working relationship with their mothers is a good starting point for meeting the world again. We're not all standing with the famous trash bag and nothing else on the day the prison sport returns behind us." It is not the child to be punished when Dad or Mom have done something stupid. For many children it seems to have a mother or a father in prison as almost being taken away from their parents. I understand that resources locally here set a framework, but from what I've seen, it's very clear that there is also competence locally that very often sets a framework, competence on how to work with this, ideas on how to work, and also the skills that are needed for, for example. to conduct the father talks you have at Kroksrud. My focus in today's interpellation has essentially been on the children, the children's right to meet Mom and Dad under normal conditions and the children's right to have a mom and dad under normal conditions, even though Mom or Dad have made a stupid choice that also affects them. But this is also related to the adults' right to turn their lives around. For me as a liberal, the right to start over when you've done something stupid, pretty important. One of these dads writes the following when he's going to describe exactly this and the groups he's been in: ‘Here we have learned from each other that people have individual differences. But in the deepest sense – no matter what history and cultural background – we are very similar. When we meet as fathers, the similarities become so big that previously perceived differences become small – and disappear. In general, I can say that some of the participants themselves have had good fathers. But many have grown up without a father present – and some have to ignore what they have learned from their father.It's hard to figure out what you've never experienced yourself. ... For many, this is breaking the circle, and it's easier to do it together. ...The contrasts between the first visit of the children in closed prison, and the first Papa group meeting could not have increased. The first experience was absolute despair, and when my children came running against me in front of the Tøenbad – absolutely joyous.On the part of the prison, this is about giving people the opportunity to change values – and that must be the very essence of criminal prevention work?’ I think as liberals that most who have landed within the walls of prison have a desire to turn things around, do things better and make some new choices. Suffering from examples that some of these institutions also want to use the paperwork for something that might not benefit the children for whom they are father, I would nevertheless like to get feedback from the Council of State on how to make such projects around the individual institutions that do not penalise the children, that fathers and mothers should have the opportunity to play their role and have the opportunity to also have a background to play their role in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e672	I agree with the representative of Trine Skei Grande that there is a need to strengthen measures for the ‘forgotten group’, the children of prisoners. More than half of Norwegian prisoners have children. A majority of these people have weekly or more frequent contact with their children. It shows the 2004 survey ‘Levekyear among prisoners’. This means that prisons are well along the way to facilitate contact between parents and children during visits and by telephone. I would like to stress that the prerequisite for getting together between prisoners and their children is that the contact is for the benefit of the children. The starting point is the children’s primary need for contact, then the needs of the prisoner. I am concerned that prison inmates should be able to follow up their responsibilities as parents and take good care of the interests of their children. We know that many prisoners have been in contact with child protection because they do not do their job as parents. There will therefore be a need to strengthen the role of prisoners as parents. For this reason, I would like to extend the guidance offer and start several parent groups. The Ministry of Justice aims to establish parent groups in all regions during 2005. The cardboard groups at Ullersmo prison, Department Kroksrud, are based on thematic collections in groups as well as joint activities between prisoners and their children. A psychologist and a cop run the dad group. Both employees and prisoners at Kroksrud are happy with the groups. This is a local concept developed by Kroksrud, which goes to the core of the interpellant, that here there has been competence, will and commitment, just what is crucial. In order to strengthen measures to enhance the parental competence of prisoners, the Ministry of Justice is in the process of establishing cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs has offered to assist with training for criminal services. Their parental guidance project aims to reinforce positive behaviour, limitation, clarity, security, etc. The parental guidance project has made its own arrangements for child protection, health centres and kindergartens. We will assess whether this can be appropriate as guidance for parents in prisons. I don't want to limit these measures to father groups. Female inmates also have children with whom they are entitled to co-exist. Many women get back the daily care of their children when they are released. The development of measures for female convictions shall also be of high priority in criminal matters. In 2005, a visitor’s apartment is to be established for prisoners who are entitled to co-exist with children, both in Bredtveit Prison and in Trondheim Prison, Leira Department. The condition for using the visitor’s apartment shall be that prisoners participate in a guidance scheme or in a group to increase parental skills. For example: to look at the practical situation of Bredtveit prison today and to see, in a physical way, how opportunities will be different from one’s own visitation unit and apartment within the walls, it is easy to see how this can be improved and strengthened. I would like to underline once again that the prerequisite for having 24 hours with the child, to be able to read for the child, is that the adult assumes responsibility and strengthens his or her own skills as a parent, because this is the child's premise that this is going to happen. The VINN female programme is available in a new version at the end of this year. This programme has its own chapter on mother-child relations and on how women can better master the parenting role. Themes include children's needs, boundaries, empathy and security. This programme can also be used in connection with the visitation apartment of Bredtveiten in prison. When, in addition to touching the Dad Group at Kroksrud Prison, which the interpellant picked up, I also chose to include the concept at Bredtveit Prison, it is to show that the very basic idea is that based on the needs of the children and the adults' willingness to strengthen their ability to be good parents, we can develop a scheme that will improve the situation of children for prisoners. My conclusion is that I will actively continue to work on developing good parental guidance and parental guidance concepts and to establish this in prisons here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e700	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm especially glad that the Council of State has an approach and a focus where the children are in the center. But all of us who know some kids a little bit and know what it means to meet a child only one hour a week or one hour every 14 days, realize that it's going to be a completely different relationship than dealing with children over a longer period. That is why I am very pleased with the concept of a visiting apartment that is made, because it is clear that making dinner together is something other than sitting in a sterile visitor's room and would build a relationship over time. And then I'm very happy that the Council of State says that parents should be built up in all regions. But what the Croksrud example has taught me, and as the Council of State also underlined, is that there are different competences of the different institutions. What I'm afraid is that you create projects that are pushed between different institutions and different disciplines, and that you can't bind this together – that you can't connect all the units that are in, for example. the lives of these children, and create the necessary skills both in dealing with the child and in making adults the role models that they are to try to be as parents to their children. So it's a challenge in the future to get this competence in place and be able to create these relationships, and that's what's really the lesson of almost all of the three interpellations we've had so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e709	What is the topic, on which the representative was involved, in all the interactions, is that Norway is sometimes a very transparent society. Sometimes we choose to use that knowledge for the best, sometimes we use it to turn us away. What is the starting point here is that we have spent a long time in Norway on a good educational background, both for those who work in the police, who have been the topic earlier today, and for prison staff. And I'm convinced that that's exactly the basis that makes us have something to build on. The fact that there is an commitment among prison staff to dry out what is difficult – in addition to control and security, which was actually a topic for me also in the yesterday Questionnaire – and also go into what is demanding, has its background in having this basic competence. One such commitment I met several places. And it's true, as the interpellant says, that it's the interaction with others who decide whether you can succeed. When I say it's because of the children's needs, it's because in Norway we've taken the position that we're not going to have children in prison. I have been to a country where there have been children in prison with parents – not because the children have been convicted of anything – but I do not think that is what we should have, and we have not chosen it. But one would like to use the measure on Bredtveit to describe the difference. Clearly, having a child in a visiting room for three hours is something other than having a visiting apartment where the visit can last 24 hours and you can spend meals together, read together, read for the child, do other things that are good. There's no doubt that there's a way to go, and that I'm taking with me. So it's like people who are in jail are also very different. There's someone who doesn't master the parenting role, and who primarily needs help to master his own life. But they're just as full as parents. So there's a lot of people who are able to do it, and that's why it's connecting measures to the best of children that should be the focus of everything we've talked about here. It is important for those who are going to be parents to connect with a challenge of strengthening themselves. That's why I've stressed both what I've described, from Kroksrud, and what the interpellant has taken up, the example of Bredtveit and the professional cooperation we want to have with the Ministry of Children and Family, so that the adult does his utmost to be a good parent for the child who is going to meet the adult person. We are in a difficult landscape, but politics is there to address difficult issues, and in political work we have to have the will and the courage to do so. Although it may sometimes be difficult to do so, I think putting on the agenda what the interpellant has done here is very deserving, and it is very important. I think it is also needed as a motivation to continue for the fires that have started this work in Norwegian prisons, and that at least have my back cover in their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e728	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e731	First of all, I would like to say that it is an important topic that the interpellant has put on the agenda. State Council Dørum has given a good and thorough answer about what the Government has done and will implement in the future. Child is an innocent third party who has the right to meet father even if he is in for a refund. However, it is important that we focus on the fact that this is a right primarily for the child. It shall be for the best interest of the child to maintain contact during the atoning period. For most people, being in prison is a big stress. It's a punishment, and it has to feel like a punishment. But when one in addition is prevented from seeing one's family and children when one wishes, it makes it even more difficult. The Council of State says that he is concerned that prison inmates should be able to follow up their responsibilities as parents and take good care of their children. I also think it is important that a person arranges regular visits, with activities and a guidance device that provides the necessary support and follow-up. A small heart attack after having been in some prisons on a visit: it is that the cells are often more comfortable than the visiting rooms. It's a challenge that one should actually be able to tackle with simple means. I think both children and prisoners can get strengthened out of such a scheme. Too many prisoners there will be a strong motivation to get their lives fixed when one comes out. The responsibility and love of the children we know are parents ourselves, is one of the most important driving forces we have in life. The Council of State stated that the Ministry of Justice intends to establish parent groups in all regions during 2005. It's a pleasure that this will be an offer for everyone, and I hope that one draws the positive experiences from Ullersmo, Avd. Croksrud, to other regions and prisons as far as possible. Thus, the 2004 Year of Life Survey for Prisoners shows that more than half of the prisoners have children. But this study also shows that 60 pst. Of the prisoners, 69 pst. are unemployed, 47 pst. lack of education, 40 pst. have health problems, 35 pst. have housing problems, 30 pst. are former paediatric protection clients and 23 pst. as a child, male prisoners have been considered hyperactive or ADHD. This shows that we have major challenges in relation to the rehabilitation of prisoners. It also shows that when half of the prisoners have children, these children become a very vulnerable group, a group that deserves attention far beyond the issue of today’s interpellation. Work as e.g. The Fangers Family Association is very important to support those who are outside the walls and who will try to live their lives in the best possible way while Father or Mother is inside.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e750	‘The father of Lisa is in prison. Lisa doesn't know yet. The mother of Lisa finds it hard to know what to say. She's confused about everything she doesn't know and doesn't get an answer to. What will happen to father? How long will he be gone? What will happen to us? How are we going to do it alone? Mom's worried about Lisa. Is she going to tell you that? What should she say and when does it fit to say it? Right now it's enough to stay on your legs and make everyday life work." This quote is from an information booklet on children who have their mother or father in prison, published by the Fangers Family Association, which is some of those who have driven the focus on prisoners’ relatives – that it is partly a hidden group, a group that is often marked by a lot of shame, perhaps guilt and a lot of uncertainty, and that is partly in crisis. I think it's very nice that the representative Trine Skei Grande has brought up this interpellation, because this is a topic that we very rarely discuss. Sometimes when this is taken up, the reaction is that this should be he or she thought about before they committed the criminal act. I don't think the most people have such a brutal view of it, most people are concerned that we should facilitate that the compensation should not lead to unnecessary burden for the families that are being affected. I think the representative of Trond Helleland made a very nice contribution in this regard. Clearly, some prisons have come very far in facilitating family relations. Kroksrud is one of the institutions that has helped to get father groups. That's great, because I think it's a tendency to think that when it's about children, it's mainly the mothers that are important -- it's the female inmates we're thinking about, while there's a lot of fathers who also need support and assistance to be good dads. That's also how we're bound by the Children's Convention. It says something about children's right to have sex with their parents, and there we also have a way to go. I think it is important to look at how we can facilitate the best possible association, also by being critical of how much we use closed prisons. But at the same time, it's important to look at the paycheck, because it obviously leads to the need to move something around from prison to prison, that you have to zone sometimes far away from your home. Closed prisons make it much more difficult to have an association that can also facilitate the so-called rehabilitation process and reintegration of prisoners. I'll bring this up with foreign prisoners in the end. SV believes that expulsion decisions should come as part of the judgment, in the courts, in order to obtain predictability. Today there is an administrative decision. Some children never know until the verdict is over, if their father disappears out of the country or not. I think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e764	When mother or father is in prison, the children are also affected. The prisoner's child is innocent. It is important, therefore, to facilitate the minimisation of the burden of the detention of prisoners in prison. In my opinion, it is best in most cases to facilitate contact between the imprisoned parent and children during the settlement. Prison sentences shall act as a preventative measure and shall show the prisoner that society does not accept crime. But punishment must also have a rehabilitating effect. A little bit more rehabilitation than contact with children waiting for their father or mother to come home one day. Prisoners' children can experience restlessness, depression, psychosocial disorders such as headaches and stomachaches, anxiety and bullying. I believe that if we make better contact between prisoners and their children, we will be fined for some of this. Then it is important, as it has now been underlined from – I think – everyone who has spoken in this matter, that we put the child in the centre and try to see the realities of life from that point of view. The Fangers Family Association has made a unique contribution to putting the situation of prisoners' children on the agenda. I will also, like other speakers before me, praise the organization for the work they do. I can also add that with the inspiration of the Fangers Association Family visited Bishop Hageseter in Bjørgvin prisons, among others. in his last year as a bishop — when he was to be a special child bishop — and just put the children to parents in prison on the agenda. I think that's important. It is important that the Church is also active in this field and shows that this is an important aspect of caring and being inclusive. But it is also important to support and facilitate the prisoners, who have as their main concern today, and she refers to the father groups on Kroksrud. I also think it is important that we stress, while providing support and organisation for the prisoners, that support for the fires among the employees who also want to be involved and contribute to this, so that they are also given opportunities, working conditions, etc. in order to provide the assistance and support deemed important by those employed in prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e775	I would like to thank you for the discussion. Obviously, prisoners are very different. Some have different ballast compared to their parent role, some have different perspectives regarding their parent role, and some have also exercised their parental role differently before they ended up in prison. Families are different, and not least children are very different in how they feel about this situation. I am very pleased that the Council of State has established the principle that we should not put children in prison because of what their parents have done. But it is also important to remember here that not only the prisoners and the small nuclear family are experiencing these challenges. It's grandparents, it's teachers, and it's e.g. parents of children’s friends. Sometimes it may seem that their parents have more knowledge when they're inviting a friend with diabetes to a birthday party than when they're talking to a friend who has such challenges that we're talking about here, related to his upbringing. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State has focused on this work and started these projects. I think you have to focus on this in the future, both because it helps your kids get started better, and because it makes it easier for your parents when they get out again. But then it's important that we spread knowledge in society, that we see all the units together, that you don't just make it purely criminal -- that's actually the way we organize our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e787	I'll just mention some small reflections. Yesterday in the Questionnaire, I got a pretty intense call from a representative who wondered if the security in Norwegian prisons was good enough. It's supposed to be. I think it is quite important that one day we can discuss safety when it is important, and the other day actually put forward the idea that is the topic here today, namely how children should be able to meet their needs in this landscape. In fact, I think it is quite important that one issue and this debate take place at a 24-hour interval, because it is at the intersection of the criminal execution. On the one hand, we're going to make sure that those people we call the "stupid guys" don't fool us and hang out with us, for example. in organised crime, and we're going on the other side, once we've recognized that someone is like this, don't use it to say that's how we're going to deal with the vast majority of people. And then we're going to keep with us this rug, which has been the background of the interpellant, that children should have the right to parents, as far as adults are actually able to be parents, act as parents, and meet them on proper terms. This is so exciting and contrasting, and I'm glad that the Stortinget, through a question-time question and an interpellation debate with a 24-hour interval, draws that picture. It's in the voltage field that we have to dry to live if we're going to have a punishment that looks human for human beings, and that realizes that people can be very different when they make up for themselves. I also agree with the representative of Thorkildsen, who mentions the theme that there are many ways to deal with it. We've seen the use of community sanctions, how useful and important it is. We know that we can use open prisons far more than what we're doing, and we're about to increase that very effort, because it's important and right to do it. In the round-table last summer when we said that we should be stricter with those who are trying to trick us, we also said that we should look at how we could differentiate to see if there are anyone who is now in a closed-ended ward who really shouldn't be there. I recognize myself as a politician and a state councillor to be in that field of tension. So today, the children were brought up in a real way. I think the core of the seventh and last part is in the motivation of adults who are in prison -- dads, there are most of them, but also some mothers -- to be parents and to take that challenge, and then it's in the competence and commitment of the employees. And of course, that's what the representative of Greece said, right. I have also, after visiting 42 prisons, found that there are places where the cells are more comfortable than the visiting room. But there are also places where the visiting rooms are really pleasant. Let it be said! The representative of Greece's little moody reflection on a very serious theme may well also emphasize the seriousness of the inter-pellant, namely that we should see children, even if there are demanding conditions around the lives of these children. It is a strength that we in Norway can conduct so contrasting debates, in a peaceful and calm manner, at 24-hour intervals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e812	The left is engaged in research and research as an important part of creating a better society and greater well-being for citizens. The same is true of the Government and probably most of the parties in this house. Sometimes we encounter some dilemmas. A complete freedom of research may run counter to important ethical and human considerations. This is why Stortinget has passed laws that regulate research in some areas. The Biobank Act is such a regulation. Then, in the practice of such laws and regulations, there may be problems that cause the dilemmas to be raised, in order to see whether the balance point is properly placed between the consideration of the freedom and progress of research on the one hand and the protection of individuals and the importance of ethical considerations on the other. The issue raised today has a background in several examples where research is hampered or hindered by the excessive interpretation of the Biobank Act, in this case, without such a strict interpretation of important data protection considerations. This is said from the Left, which must rightly be said to have been more concerned with privacy than most other parties here in the house. The establishment of a biobank is a comprehensive, time-consuming and costly process. If the practice of submitting samples to such a bank falls within the scope of only one research project or specific disease on which research can be carried out, the value of the material may be reduced in importance. The research thus loses resources and opportunities that it could have had with a somewhat more transparent statement, such as: by signing that tissue material or blood sample may be used for medical research, not only in the case of a specific disease. I believe that the trust in Norwegian research environments – rightly – is great, and we have ethical testing systems that make there little or no risk of a slightly less stringent practice. In the work on this matter, we have one example that I choose to draw up in particular. Now it has happened that a complaint, after a long drag fight, has met in this specific case. I hope this may be a sign of the decoration I'm looking for, but I'll still mention the example. It is a research project at the NTNU Medical Faculty in Trondheim on the genetic disposition of pregnancy poisoning. The project would use the biobank HUNT, which has approx. 60000 samples from individuals in Trøndelag. The declaration of consent used the general term ‘medical research’. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health rejected the application for a derogation in order to be able to use this material without having to ask again all the women who have contributed samples of interest to the project, i.e. approx. 3,000. So it was said by the researcher in question that such consent could be obtained, but she also raised questions about how many times you should ask the same people about the same tests, before there is a fatigue and indifference in answering what is, after all, perceived as the same question. Such ‘consensual fatigue’ could also result in adverse changes in the composition of samples that can be used, without actually being caused by a clear willingness of those who have given the test. Thus, the quality of research can be reduced. The Data Protection Authority dealt with this matter and accepted a passive consent, i.e. that everyone should be informed about the new project and that those who actively requested it should be removed. Neither could the directorate accept this in the first place. As long as medical research is involved at a Norwegian and recognised institution and with our ethical protection systems for projects, I think it must be unproblematic that tests given to a biobank can be used in medical research in general, without one having to ask for each project. Such a practice could impede or delay important projects. In the example in question, the complaint procedure has taken a year and a half. In the course of the year, a fellow student was lost and had problems with international cooperation on research in the field. Many researchers will be able to give up and spend time on other things if they have to wait so long or use large resources to gain new consents. As mentioned in the interpellation, I am aware that a government sample, the Nylenna Committee, is in the process of evaluating the Biobank Act and the Biotechnology Act, with a rapid adjustment. However, it will be important to hear the Minister of Health's principal views on this issue, so that, hopefully, there can be a signal of a somewhat more modest practice, for the benefit of researchers, society and individuals alike.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e842	The requirement for voluntary, explicit and informed consent of patients and test subjects participating in research projects is today the guiding principle both in Norway and in the rest of Europe. This was also the case before the Biobank Act came into force. However, the new Biobanks Act has not brought about any changes in this way. The requirements for voluntary, explicit and informed consent are the result of both the Helsinki Declaration, the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, the Data Protection Act and the Health Register Act. It is also included in the new Council of Europe Protocol on Biomedical Research. The requirement for informed consent in the Biobank Act does not mean that precise information on the nature of each research project must always be provided. Unless it concerns clinical research, it is possible to give consent at a more general level, for example: by consenting to the use of material for cancer research, heart disease research, etc. The extent of the information and the degree of specification depends, inter alia, on: the purpose of the biobank and the nature of the risk, discomfort and consequences that participation could have for the individual. Consent to epidemiological research and fundamental research based on material in biobanks could be largely overarching. Such research often poses little or no health risk to participants. It is clear from Circular 1-10/2003 — The Biobanks Act with Notes — that it is possible to give more overall consent in such cases. Since the entry into force of the Biobank Act on 1 July 2003, the Ministry has received more than 230 notifications of biobanks. In only one of the cases, the Ministry has assessed it in such a way that the requirement for informed and express consent has not been met. In such cases, the second paragraph of Section 13 of the Biobank Act provides for an exception, which means that the research project can be carried out after a concrete assessment even if the consent requirement is not considered to be met. I do not want the rules of consent of the Biobank Act to be interpreted unfairly. With regard to the establishment of new biobanks, the Ministry’s experience is that the information writings produced by researchers to participants are often too specific and take little account of the fact that new and interesting issues could arise in the wake of research work. The Biobank Act provides for more general and general consent than some researchers seem to be aware of. I cannot see that there has been too strict a practice of the law in terms of the requirement for the consent of the participants in the research. In order to ensure that the law's possibilities to give a more general and overall consent become known, I will take the initiative to provide the research community with better information on this. If the modified, extended or new use of previously collected material is not covered by the original consent, new consent shall, as a general rule, be obtained. Where it is impossible or very difficult to obtain new consent, the Ministry may, in accordance with the law, on the basis of an assessment by a regional committee on medical research ethics, derogate from the requirement of consent. The Ministry’s competence has been delegated to the Directorate for Social and Health. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health states that they have so far dealt with six cases under the second paragraph of Section 13 of the Biobank Act. In all these cases, a derogation from the requirement of new consent has been granted. Until 1 October 2004, the responsibility for receiving and processing biobank notifications lies with the Ministry of Health, while the authority to derogate from the requirement of consent has been in the Directorate of Social and Health. This split procedure between the Department and the Directorate has not worked satisfactorily. It has proved to be difficult and unduly irritating in cases where researchers have had to send applications and notifications both to the Department and to the Directorate for Social and Health. From 1 October 2004, the power to receive and assess the establishment of research biobanks is delegated in full to the Directorate for Social and Health. In particular, it is worth noting that such a collection of the management of the Biobank Act will provide for faster and more effective procedures for the use of biological material from older biobanks – biobanks established before the entry into force of the Biobank Act. Biological material collected for biobanks established before the entry into force of the Biobank Act must, of course, be used in line with previous consent. However, the use of such material for research often has to be assessed under the exception provided for in the Biobank Act, either because the material supplier has not been asked whether the material can be used for research or because the prior consent has not been given. When genetic testing is carried out, the Biotechnology Act applies in addition to the Biobank Act. Participation in research projects covered by the Biotechnology Act requires the written consent of the participant and a scheme for the provision of genetic guidance. The Ministry has interpreted the Biotechnology Act in such a way as to apply to research projects involving specific genetic studies and where the material is not anonymised. Questions may be asked about whether this interpretation does not imply that the law has acquired a wider scope than that which was intended when the provision in question was first incorporated in the 1994 Biotechnology Act. There may be a need to consider how to remedy this legal situation. The subject of biotechnology shall, according to its mandate, deliver opinions on matters under the law on the human medicine use of biotechnology, etc. I would like to put the question of the scope of the Biotechnology Act ahead of the Biotechnology topic as well as the Social and Health Directorate, which has recently set up its own specialist council for the medical use of biotechnology. The purpose of this presentation will be to provide a better basis for assessing the impact of an amended interpretation of the Biotechnology Act by reducing, where appropriate, the application of the law to research. It is up to the Nylenna Committee to decide what measures can be taken to ensure the appropriate and clear regulation of medical research. The selection will be set before Christmas. As I see it, any changes to the legislation on consent and changes to the scope of the Biotechnology Act should be awaited and assessed in the follow-up to the Nylenna Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e865	It's asked if I might have to withdraw my opinion from today's participation in the interpellation debate that all the parties are engaged in research, but it's reasonable to say that the Left with its two staging representatives has a little more work capacity than the other parties. I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is that we in Norway have some unique banks in terms of knowledge and are trying this particular area. And it is clear that I very much agree with all that the Council of State said we should have a strict law both in terms of commercialisation and privacy and in relation to consent. What I have been concerned about is that consent must be given in a framework that makes sense to the consent holder. Because if you practice that way, you give a tissue sample and expect it to be used, for example. in lung cancer, for which a new consent is required if it is to be used in another cancer, the consent of the applicant does not make sense. I believe that it is enough to develop standards of consent that provide a framework that also makes sense to the individual who gives it his consent. Then I'm very happy with what the Council of State says about dialogue with the research communities, because the frustration in the environments is quite great for anyone who works with research in relation to those tests. I've often noticed that when I've traveled around the different environments. Good information, but also good feedback is very important. I am also very pleased with the approach taken by the Council of State in relation to the procedure that could lead to the rationalisation of that very thing. But a very important input is, I think, that the proceedings would probably have been carried out more in dialogue with the institutions rather than as a verdict, as the institutions often feel it. Because it is clear that the competence and perspective of the case handlers to enforce the law here is important to develop in dialogue with research so that they can manage to obtain solutions that are related to both the law and the work frameworks they have. It is then possible that a dialogue is as good as a procedure where the coach is put in the main seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e878	No, the representative does not need to withdraw any opinion. They were largely about the excellence of the Left in this area; she did not talk about the inadequacy of others. So there are more parties and more politicians who are concerned about research and the conditions of research, I think is very good. We know that the Biobank Act is an attempt to balance the entire conflict of interest between privacy and that the researcher should have access to. What the representative said about dialogue in the course of the procedure, and that it should not only appear to be judgments, I agree very much. On the other hand, there have been few problems related to these ‘judgments’ by the fact that everyone has been released until now, and the waiver applications that have been granted have also been granted. What I think is the problem is that some of our researchers are too specific in their applications and indicating what to research. Then you get a good idea since, and then the problem arises. The problem isn't really the dialogue at the time you do this, but it's kind of how informed the scientist is about things other than what specifically interests them. Of course, you should not refer to the law in relation to the legislative assembly, Section 12, which I am set to manage, but it is quite specific. It is stated in the second paragraph of this paragraph: ‘The consultation shall be documented and based on information on the purpose, method, risk, discomfort, consequences and other relevant to the validity of the consent.’;» It is clear that at the moment when the person has consented based on an application where these things are specified, there must also be some degree of liberalism if there are completely other things you want to do next time. That is why I think it is so important, what the representative is about, that researchers should be informed of the constraints that arise if they become too specific in the indications of their research projects. Also the fact that we have now put together the procedure in one place, I think will definitely be a step forward. No matter who was responsible for it, I regret that it took a year and a half with this specific application that I know the representative has been concerned about. But I feel quite certain that the way in which we deal with matters, the relatively liberal approach we have in interpreting, will be a contribution to research in this very important area, in which we should definitely focus further.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e892	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-11.ana.ud2288e903	There is no record.
