ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e28	The representative of Morten Lund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e31	On behalf of Eli Sollied Överaas and myself, I would like to make proposals to reduce the cost of information and to facilitate more effective competition between the banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e36	The representative, Odd Roger Enoksen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e39	On behalf of the representatives of Bendiks H. Arnesen, Lodve Solholm, Åsa Elvik and myself, I would like to propose extending the testing scheme with operating arrangements for vessels below 28 metres to the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e44	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e68	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen Councillor Lars Sponheim Councillor Laila Davay The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e87	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There's a lot in the Sem statement I disagree with. But then I strongly agree on at least one point, and it is promised in the Sem Declaration to increase assistance to 1 pst. national income by 2005. It's a great and important goal. It is about the most important issue today: combating poverty in the world and avoiding over one billion people living in what the United Nations calls absolute poverty – for less than one dollar a day. I'm also particularly concerned about it because such an increase in assistance as the Government has promised will make it possible to get money to vaccinate all the world's children against measles, chick cough, tetanus and other diseases, which today kills something like 300 million children a year. What I want is confirmed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that the objective of the Sem Declaration of 1 pst. aid is established.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e98	Now there's two things to say about the question itself. Firstly, this is the responsibility of the Minister of Development, and secondly, the Minister of Finance is responsible for the budgets. But I can confirm that we in the Government will do what we can to meet the Sem Declaration's objectives within the entire spectrum, and it will be next year's budget that tells us how far we'll get – whether we get right, or if we don't get right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e105	Firstly, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also has constitutional responsibility for parts of the aid budget, and secondly, I thought that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was in charge of the budget, even though the Minister for Finance is the principal person responsible for the budget. In addition, I think it is alarming that the Foreign Minister is unclear – because that is what he is – in relation to such a concrete numerical target, 1 pst. by 2005 at the latest, on a permanent basis. And there's one year left to do it on. This is the budget for the next year, and that is why I want to confirm that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that the aid will come up in 1 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e110	The reason why I answered as I did is that the question that Stoltenberg was particularly concerned about, namely the vaccines, is not in my area, but in the area of the Minister of Aid. I think he'll give me right in that I answered formally correctly on these questions. I can confirm that the Sem declaration is what we naturally depend on, and we will implement it as much as possible. In many places, we have started well, in many places we have come all the way ashore, and in some places it is up to the 2005 budget to tell us how far we are going ashore, and that applies in all areas. Stoltenberg knows just as well as I do that none of what I am now saying is alarming. I am absolutely sure that he had waited for me to answer just as I have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e119	There will be two follow-up questions – first Bjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e122	In the extension of perhaps the Sem Declaration as well, but at least Norway has promised to give aid, we have the international promises in the Millennium, that rich countries should remove the debt, we have to provide more assistance, while poor countries have to deal with more democracy and rule of the people. In what way does Norway work to increase its international horizons so that we can meet the Millennium Goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e129	This is a question in a different area than what's my domain, I have to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e135	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e138	The Foreign Minister here says that all parts of the Sem declaration must be fulfilled. There's one year left to do it. 1 pst. of GNI for u-help would cost approx. SEK 1.5 billion. At the same time, the Government has again approx. $12 billion in tax relief commitments. I don't ignore the fact that there may be a certain problem when you're going to start prioritizing. My question is about a — if one has to give priority to the different objectives of the Sem Declaration — e.g.: will increase assistance to 1 pst. of GNI, and put ahead of the desire for additional tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e147	First of all, I didn't say what Marit Arnstad now said, I said, she'll find out when she goes back in the minutes. I said that with regard to the areas that we have not implemented in the Sem declaration per. The 2005 budget will tell us whether we are coming up completely, or whether that is something we are not doing. That is the reality of it. I assume that Marit Arnstad has not expected me to go into what the 2005 budget will look like. It would be more than alarming, and I'm amazed that the question is asked in this way now, from someone who has been a member of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e154	A third representative has signed up for follow-up questions, and since early in the morning, the President shall show liberality – Gunhild Eyeyang.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e157	My question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: what is the most important thing to achieve these objectives, assistance or tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e162	As far as the president registered, it was the previous question, but it does not hurt to repeat the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e165	How these questions will be balanced against each other, if we have to balance them against each other, we will return to the 2005 budget. But what Gunhild Eye would have seen of how the Government has moved forward is that we have moved forward in both of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e170	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e173	I have a question for our honourable Minister of Agriculture. Now it's happened again. Egg producers in Norway are unable to meet the needs of egg-eating Northmen. It happened at Christmas, and it will also happen now in Easter. We're going to be missing between 200 and 300 tons of eggs. If an average seagull weighs 60 grams, that means that we are missing 3,300,000 eggs – due to the EEA rules with a 28-day restriction on sales. Will the Council of State now help to remove the customs-based protection during the periods when Norwegian producers cannot satisfy the need for egg-eating Northmen? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e182	Perhaps the Minister for Agriculture can come up with a yellow coat? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e185	Yes, I might have replied that every man should have his hen, so this would have been solved. The rules for durability and for how long it is allowed to sell eggs are under the responsibility of the Minister of Health. [[Laughter]] We had a big debate about this around Christmas. It's like we eat more eggs in the holidays, but the chicken basically lays one egg a day, and nothing more especially in the holidays. [[muttering in the hall]] It often turns out that things go better than the horror propaganda you hear in advance. I expect that the Norwegian people will have the opportunity to get eggs in the Easter as well, at least the government will try to contribute as much as it can to the Norwegian people getting eggs in the Easter. [[laughs in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e195	Maybe a contribution could be to increase the density of cocks?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e198	To bring a little more serious into the debate, we have almost zero-tariff quotas that Norway can use. We have a quota of 290 tonnes from the EU that has not been used at all, and we have a WTO quota of 1,290 tonnes of low customs duties that has not been used. Will the Council of State help us to meet the need for eggs by using those quotas that have not been used?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e205	There is a need for consumers to have the food they want at all times, which is the most important. We follow this development carefully and will make sure to do what we can to help make it a necessary offer of eggs too when the festival comes over us. Then I must say briefly, President, that it has previously been said by a well-known priest, Karsten Isachsen, who has a priesthood, that since it is a vicarage, he will have seven hens and seven cocks. But that doesn't give the necessary number of eggs that the Norwegian people need.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e212	The President notes with amazement that no one has asked for follow-up questions. Let's move on to the next main question. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e217	It's probably a long time until such a highlight is left in an oral question time. I would like to ask the Danish Council of State Davay about the kindergarten development in Norway. From the Government it has been assured a number of times that the objectives set by the Storting decision on kindergarten development will be achieved. Last year it was said that we would reach the target of 12,000 places. The government assured me it was as late as at Bondevik's summary press conference just before Christmas. The real number turned out to be close to 8 000, and that means we already have a significant lag in kindergarten development. The aim of the survey is 12,000 places this year. This means that if we are going to resume the delay, we have to build 16 000 places to keep track of the expansion the Stortinget has granted money for. My question to the Council of State is, how is the expansion going now? Is there any reason to believe that we will achieve the goal of 12,000 places plus 4,000 this year? I have registered that as late as a month ago, the Council of State assured that at least the target of 12,000 seats will be reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e228	It still surprises me that predictions, which are reserved for exact figures both from the Prime Minister and this Minister, are repeatedly rewritten, both in this Chamber and in some newspapers, as final figures. In fact, we have not yet received the final figure for the 2003 enlargement. It'll be a few weeks. What we know is that over 10,000 completely new kindergartens were built last year. But what is uncertain is the figure from November 15th to the end of the year – whether more places were built then, and also how many places have been closed. So we're still a little bit uncertain about this number. Some journalists have called the county officials and believe they know that it will be about. 8 000. At this point, I'm not going to bring the final number, because I don't know. Some of the kindergartens that were to be built last year might not be fully operational at the end of the year, and there may be a delay. It is true that this year's forecasts seem high. We have investment grants that make the pace of kindergarten expansion very much bothered. Never before have there been as many kindergartens built as last year, nor will it be built this year, I think. We had a press conference with the House Bank the other day. There they expressed that there was a huge growth in the enquiries to the House Bank, and that it had been the last six months. They had a huge pressure. They are now putting all their strength into making sure that anyone who needs it will get a loan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e237	There is nothing that will please me more than that the goals of the Storting will be achieved. It's clear, I understand there's uncertainty about the expansion last year. If the expansion is in more than 8,000 places, it's amazing, even if we don't reach 12,000. But we are left with the reality that there is a slowdown in development that we have to resume during this period, if the whole kindergarten reform, as the Storing has decided, is to be implemented. The figures we've obtained so far from January and February indicate that there are many things going on, but the actual materialization in new kindergartens is depending on, and it may actually look as if it's significantly behind, at least if you're going to believe the private kindergartens' own forecasts. These don't have to be right, but they've given us a forecast that gives cause for concern. My follow-up question is this: when the figures from last year are in place, and when we look at the expansion in the first few months of this year, may it be necessary to come back to revision with new incentives to ensure that we achieve the ambitious objective of the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e248	It's too early to answer that yet, but we're following developments closely. Like the Storting, the whole Storting, the Government is also concerned that we get the most possible kindergartens built as soon as possible. It's clear that it takes time to build new places, but we're going to make it all right. I know that the KS and the municipalities are now also very offensive in terms of facilitating both private and municipal kindergarten development. What is at least certain is that such a budget is designed in relation to development, it is an estimate. So we're not stopping the kindergarten expansion, even if it turns out that thousands more kindergartens than what's in the projections are on the go. That's a certainty. We're going to follow closely. I don't ignore the fact that we're coming back, but I can't just say it right now. We need to know something more before I can answer exactly that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e259	There will be four follow-up questions – first Eirin Fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e262	I am pleased that the Council of State is keeping an eye on the rate of expansion here, for there is a broad consensus in the Storting that we want to achieve the goal that we have set ourselves. In the objective we have, I expect the Council of State to be able to respond to whether she wants to put in extra measures so that we can achieve the goal that has been set. What action, if any, will the Council of States put in place to achieve this? Then there's one more thing that I think I have to mention, and that's about the price of the kindergartens. We want everyone to afford a place, and I want to ask if the Council of State is closely monitoring price developments in the municipalities, because this has the greatest connection with the local economy, which we know is weak in many places. What will the Council of State do to get closer cooperation with the Minister of Regional and Municipal Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e269	One of the measures we have started, and are going to start, is to get a better overview more often in terms of kindergarten development in our municipalities. It has been that we have received half-yearly summaries, and it has turned out that it may have been a little too small. It has taken a long time to get the figures out, and often it has been that there have been media speculations long before the ministry has been able to collect the figures. So we're putting up some new routines. I think that will also give us a better way to follow up and possibly take action against municipalities, point out the need, and thus get a much larger overall overview across our country. It's one of the measures we've been taking this year. In terms of price developments, we're going to follow. Yes, we follow very well – we have a close dialogue with the KS, and also with the private kindergartens. I just want to remind you that in the kindergarten agreement, from 1 May this year, the municipalities as a kindergarten authority will be responsible for the economically equivalent treatment between public and private kindergartens, which means that the maximum price of NOK 2 750 is to be reached for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e277	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e280	The nursery agreement has been unanimously adopted in Stortinget, and therefore it is so infinitely important that we manage to implement what we have now all committed ourselves to, namely a low price and space for everyone within a set timeframe. It has been like that with the progress of the Government in this matter. Therefore, it is now necessary to establish that the Government maintains the same timetable, that it is determined that everyone should have the right to remain in place within specified timeframes and that the decision on the maximum rates should be followed. We have to establish that there will be no new curvatures, but on the contrary, there will be new measures from the Government if it would prove difficult to meet these objectives. So it's not the goals that need to be changed, but in the case of the instruments that need to be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e287	The President didn't hear any questions, but the Council of State can answer anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e290	I'd like to answer that. I might react a little bit to the tone. We have a consensus. We're going to be able to do this together. There are no goals that are shifted, neither in time nor in any other way. It is probably the largest reform in the municipal sector that has been carried out in such a short time. I think the Storting should be aware of that too. It takes a lot of government and my department. It also requires an enormous amount of money from Stortinget when it gets a big message on 19 March that it has asked for, for sibling moderation. I think we should be a little careful and take responsibility for everyone. In fact, it is not common for the Storting to ask for feedback on regulations. It has also delayed this matter. As late as last December, we received the latest decisions in Stortinget in relation to how the Government will follow up the case. It's positive for a government council that the Storting is involved, but it takes a lot to discuss a lot of details in Stortinget. That's the situation in this case. It's fast. The municipalities say it's going too fast, but the schedule is set, and it should be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e301	Karin S. Woldseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e304	We are now at the beginning of March. It is less than two months until the kindergarten reform and the first phase in the case of the unit price are launched. Nevertheless, there is considerable uncertainty in the municipality of Norway, and not least among the private kindergartens. The fact that the regulations are going back to Stortinget is one thing, but the criteria for the bet are also very unclear. I wonder if the council can say anything about what she intends to do if it turns out that the municipalities are now ageing with the kindergarten money. Can she imagine introducing a piece price directly to the kindergarten from the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e311	I would like to mention that the deadline is short. I'm not going to go through the whole sequence that we've had regulations at the hearing, etc. The criteria for the discretionary pool have come out to all kindergartens, and also a letter from the department with a further progress plan. The funding is relatively predictable – that is my opinion – also for the private kindergartens. Everyone knows what they get in operating grants for each nursery. What they don't know is what's going to be awarded from the point of view. It is intended to compensate directly for a reduction in the parental payment. I dare therefore claim that predictability is relatively good. Then the municipality is obliged to cover costs not covered by the State, the parental or other government grants, through the regulations for economically equivalent treatment, which have also been consulted. Municipalities are given a strong responsibility and become pediatric authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e320	Eli Sollied Practices – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e323	I think it's important and absolutely necessary to stress that if we're going to achieve the goal of full babysitting, we're forced to support the rate of expansion. From the actors to realize this, the private and the municipal nursery owners, there are questions raised to depositors whether there is an adequate economy in the system to reach the maximum price 1 and the maximum price 2. The size has stressed that this should be a reform fully financed by the State. I assume that the Council of State has consultations with both private and municipal actors, and my question to the Council of State is what signal it receives in relation to the Stortinget's financial arrangements. Is that good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e332	First of all, I would like to say that the assumption from both the collapse and the government is that the municipalities should maintain their share in the sector, approx. DKK 4.5 billion. There has been some concern over the fact that municipalities have reduced their efforts, so that parental payments have increased in some places – the sibling moderation we have seen that some municipalities have reduced. However, there has been a clear premise that municipalities should maintain their share in the sector. We're going to put in large control measures in each municipality and possibly withdraw funds if you don't use the funds you get or if you reduce the effort. It's not the economy that prevents you from building enough spaces. As I said before, funds for the construction of new sites are given as an estimate. Finally, I would like to remind you that we have recently created our own website via the House Bank, which is actually going to make it much easier to set up kindergartens, and that those who are going to run and build kindergartens are going to be able to do much more of this work themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e343	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e347	I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. All parties in the Nord-Trøndelag – with the exception of the Progress Party – the youth parties and a number of organisations have provided the Minister of Agriculture with a call for priorities in the WTO negotiations, where the Government receives full support for the approach that has been followed so far. The Minister of Agriculture said in a comment to Mr Trønder-Avisa that he was basically in agreement with the northern helmsmen on this matter. In recent days some confusion has been created by government teams both about the powers of the Government from the Storting to change the negotiating positions and what will be the government's future position. Now the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Jon Lilletun, is out with a commendable clarification today, where he says that the Christian People's Party joins the formulation of the position of the Stortinget ‘because it does not imply any new comparison with the negotiating authority already adopted by the government for the WTO negotiations’. It is a positive clarification where both the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party and the Council of State have been commendably clear. Does the Minister for Agriculture support the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party in his view on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e364	Let me first say that caring for Norwegian total interests, including the interests of agriculture, is an important matter for the Government. It is high on the agenda, and a lot of working time is spent on it. Norway's position vis-à-vis the WTO is so firm and well anchored both in Stortinget, among all actors in Norwegian agriculture and in the Norwegian people. I understand that in the last few days there has been a debate that there should have been some changes. It is true that the Government has a significant room for action in relation to the Storting in dealing with these issues. All those years through the 1990s, with changing governments, which I've been sitting in this room, it's always been that if a government wanted to reduce budget support or do something about protection support, that's the majority of it. That space of action is there, but it's not the same as the government ever uses that space of action. A government is constantly doing what is best for Norwegian interests. In this way, I can't see that there's any reason to play on the fact that there's any disagreement about the interpretation of this. What is important is that the government now has a high speed in caring for Norwegian interests, connecting contacts and understanding this very complicated negotiating image we are facing. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has a comprehensive travel programme, he connects to understand the positions of different countries, just in order to take care of the agricultural and other Norwegian interests in these negotiations. The government intends to continue until we have a negotiated result that Norwegian agriculture can also live well with. Attempts to split the government lots in this area are not justified. We agree on how to deal with these questions. I think we're going to be in the future too.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e371	I am very pleased that the Minister of Agriculture is crystal clear in relation to the needs of Norway to take care of Norwegian agricultural interests, and is so clear in the wording. I perceived what the Minister of Agriculture said well along the way, as a confirmation that he agreed with Jon Lilletun. However, to repeat: the wording of the Stortinget does not imply anything new in relation to the negotiating mandate the Government has already adopted for the WTO negotiations, after which the Government is working today. That's what Jon Lilletun says in a written article in the nation today. Does the Minister of Agriculture share that view?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e378	It is quite clear that the government's position in relation to the WTO negotiations is firm. Then it is that when the negotiations progress, one cannot rule out that there are movements in the negotiations. It has the government's necessary room for action in the Storting for, as it has been throughout all years. It was not least confirmed by the recent debate. But even if you have a larger room for action, it is not that the government immediately jumps into that space of action and reduces Norwegian schemes. We take care of Norwegian interests through these negotiations. And of course, we'll do that in the future. I see that there has been a lot of debate about what is distorting trade support, and what is internal support, etc. However, it is clear that the Government in these areas has already given significant concessions in the WTO positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e385	There will be two follow-up questions – first Åslauga Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e388	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Following the debate on the message of globalisation here in Stortinget, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said to the Nations: ‘The majority of the vote of the majority shall state where the country is located. It is absolutely right that this should give new powers to the WTO negotiations.» Now we hear it – although not very clear – from the Minister of Agriculture, but it is not difficult to understand what the Christian People's Party parliamentary leader is saying to the press today. He says very clearly that there are no new powers, and that the government must therefore deal with the negotiating mandate that has also been clarified in Stortinget. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is quite simple: Is the line of the Christian People's Party applicable, possibly with the support of the Left, or is it the Right line that applies?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e402	It strikes me that we are now entering a highly unconstructive debate, which I am very surprised to travel in this way. What is clear is that the government feels that it has sufficient room for action to take care of Norwegian interests, as we agree. What is the big question is whether the negotiating room was created on Friday or whether it has been created in the past. That could be some debate on that. I have noticed that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee has said so far that it was created on Friday. He is somewhat right about one point, namely that the issue of export credits is more clearly expressed in the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee than perhaps elsewhere. Without being so clear in this specific area, I have nevertheless felt that the negotiating room we have had in relation to Stortinget has been there. That's another side of the matter. I've probably felt that we could go there, even without the explicit acceptance from Stortinget at that point. But now it's explicit. Realities remain the same. I have to say, I'm not even sure where the Center Party has been thinking. I don't think this is going on constructively.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e409	Bjørn Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e412	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. However, the Foreign Minister is quite right in saying that the Foreign Affairs Committee has clearly said that there should be changes in the internal trade distorting support schemes. We do this, of course, in order to obtain the export credits. The Committee also calls for its support to be «regarded the value of agriculture for cultural landscapes, the environment and housing». So one will have employment-driven supplements. So my question is, how does the Minister of Agriculture follow this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e419	As far as WTO negotiations are concerned, we are following this up from the Government under the responsibility of the State Council, which is the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We have a good and close cooperation in the Government. There is no basis for playing on the disagreement between the parties in the Government, which the Center Party has now made into a point. It is wrong, and it is harmful to Norwegian agriculture. So for trade distorting support and internal support. It is clear that we are prepared – we already have plans – to make changes and reductions in the most trade-distorting parts of the aid we have for Norwegian agriculture today. It's already through the position that's been inserted. It is such that it provides a considerable scope for action to take exactly the considerations expressed by the Foreign Affairs Committee, by shifting more of the arrangements to so-called green schemes. It works with the Government, and it makes sense to do so, regardless of the WTO, because a very important part is to justify Norwegian agriculture in the future in what one delivers from collective goods, for travel lives and for the rest of the population. We are working on this independently of the WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e426	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e430	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. The International Women's Day marked the Christian People's Party, by Vice-Chairman Hareide, by going to the Frontal Attack on the Workers' Party and SV and claiming that it was precisely these two parties' fault that there were too few fathers who were at home with their children and used their leave arrangements. This can naturally be written in the account that the Christian People's Party does not have its own things to come on this important day. A study by the SSB shows that more than half of the fathers want more time with their children. The Christian People's Party has now been in charge of the Ministry of Children and Family for two periods of a total of more than five years. The Sem Declaration proposes to increase the scope of the paper issue. My specific question is: When will the Council meet its electoral commitments from the election campaign on more papacy? Does she really share the opinion of her vice-leader?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e439	This is important, and we have the same goal: to get more fathers to take responsibility at home. I don't want to characterize other people's statements from this pulpit. I'm in charge of my own. We have said in the Sem statement that we want to expand the paper issue. There are two things that also have to be done in relation to this: giving self-sufficiency to the fathers who don't have this, and getting all the fathers into the system. It is such today that not all are covered by the paper issue. What we have also said in the Sem Declaration – there is an order of this – is that kindergarten development comes first, and then you will come back to the paper commission. That doesn't mean we're going to rule out that we can bring it back earlier, but at least it'll be a budget question when we're going to implement it. I am very pleased that the Stortinget as late as December last year, in connection with the family announcement, agreed to extend the papacy regime. But there are also other measures that are important if you are to make a father more at home. Personally, I was in Turkey on March 8th and celebrated the day with the Muslim women from the ruling party there. It's clear that when we tell you about our leave plan with four weeks' dad rate, as actually 85 pst. fathers take out, it's very positive. What is happy in Norway today is that when these fathers discover that it is so great to be home with the children, we will probably see in the years to come a much greater pressure from fathers to become more equal in this area. I think that'll speed this case up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e450	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think the intentions of the Council of State are good at this point, but at the same time it is well that time is now running a little bit from the Christian People's Party. There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party has had the opportunity to spend more time together between children and father if they wanted it. But the only concrete thing we see from the Government is that they are expanding a cash support scheme that fewer and fewer small children's families want to make use of. We can at least establish one thing, there are a few fathers who want to make use of this cash support scheme. Then my question is, Isn't the government willing to go in and evaluate its own reforms? If society is asking for reforms other than cash support, are they not willing to go in and look at the possibility of making a change, so that parents and children actually get more time together?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e459	I strongly reject the fact that we haven't done much for family policy and to make it visible and make some decisions that it's important to make Dad more at home with the children. I just remind you of the family message, to which the Stortinget joined in its entirety. In the case of cash support, it has been evaluated annually. I can't believe it's going to be a problem to have a system that gives so much freedom of choice to the parents. Only when we gradually get full kindergarten development will we get the real freedom of choice for our parents. And then it will show how many parents will still want the cash support. From the last survey, which we recently obtained, we saw that as many as 50 pst. would continue to wish to retain the cash support. It's not just to ignore 50 pst., I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e466	There will be three follow-up questions – first Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e469	So far, we have to note that in the case of active measures to get men home, the most festivities are from the Christian People's Party, because at least the cash support has not led men to go home – it is perhaps a handful of men who use it. Nor has it led parents to spend much more time with their children, and fewer people want to make use of that system. At least it is completely wrong if the target is, among other things, is to get the fathers home. My specific question is, When will the Christian People's Party go from talking to practice, and when will the Christian People's Party propose an extended federal quota? Is it in the 2005 budget, or will we again hear that ‘we will return when there is an election campaign’? But when it comes to "heelinga" and the money, it doesn't come – because that's what actually counts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e476	It's quite funny to get such a question from someone who's been in government himself. As the former Council of State, it is known that the budget comes to the harvest. Every budget comes to the harvest. It is not that a state council can advance what is coming, and when matters come. But we have managed to get a majority for this measure in Stortinget. It is the Christian People's Party that is clear, not the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e481	Eli Sollied Practices – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e484	There has been a debate in this area on who uses the dust cloth and the vacuum cleaner. I didn't think it was so constructive to discuss, for example. who takes the dishes. The most constructive thing we can do is to administer our own economic rights and expand the paper issue. The councils themselves pointed to the family message, and I'm a little surprised that the council is as unclear as it is when it comes to progress, because there's a clear majority in Stortinget that wants this now. Then it is tempting to challenge the Minister for the Family on the following: What would the Minister for Family Affairs Davay do if she had to prioritize between two things: expand the paper commission, which is a good family policy, or give tax reliefs of DKK 10-12 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e491	To put it this way: I'm going to do my job to get a pass on the paper issue, as fast as possible. I think it's very important for the children's families, and we have a common goal on it throughout the Biggest. But once again, it can't be pushed out of this pulpit, we'll see when the budgets come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e496	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e500	I am very pleased that the Minister for Children and Family now says that she will give priority to expanding the paper issue, as clearly as she does. It's positive. But it would have been possible to make changes to some of the arrangements we have now, and we don't know how to make them very well. The cash support is one of them. The main problem with cash support is that it is not a payment for being with your children, but for keeping your child away from kindergarten. There's one thing you could do. You could also imagine a slightly more fun experiment and say that the cash support increased if there was a father who was at home. Then you could get another -- to put it like that -- emphasis on it. But what might have been even more important would have been if you had looked at different types of working time arrangements that had made the time accounts further, so that toddlers, including fathers, could get out of time and have had the opportunity to spend time in another way without losing too much money. Will the Government and the Minister for Child and Family Affairs look at such opportunities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e507	Now the working time system is not directly to my department, but it is clear that it is important to look at all possible arrangements when we talk about this important matter, to get fathers to be more at home. However, attitudes of employers will also be very important. One of the major problems we have in Norway today in relation to gender equality is still equal pay. The work evaluation project launched by the Ministry, which has now come halfway across, where they look at a number of women-dominated professional groups and their low status and low wages, is also extremely important, creating a new tool that can be used in the workplace in this area. I think it's one of the things to do to make sure that you can choose that your father should be more at home with your children, both during maternity leave and in other contexts. Cash support has given some more time to the homes, we have seen that, but unfortunately, most mothers spend time with the children, even today. Freedom of choice is very important to the Government. We believe that the parents and families themselves must be allowed to choose what they want, and then you must have a differentiated offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e514	Then there has been a desire for another follow-up question, and the President is allowing grace to go too straight. Ranveig Frøiland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e519	Governments take credit and boast that they've got multiples to expand the paper issue. We're going to support it, so we can be a few of them. But it doesn't help so much to get a multiple for a big message if you don't follow up with money when the budget comes. Until now, we can see that the Council of State has been involved in and prioritised tax incentives rather than expanding the paper industry. Now the Council of State says very clearly to the previous question that it will give priority to the paper issue in the forthcoming budget. We're happy about that. And I will again challenge the Council of State. Is it now the paper commission to give priority over additional tax laws, which the Council of State has prioritised until now?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e524	It's important that you listen carefully to what the Council of State says, but now, fortunately, there's a record. It will turn out what the budget contains, and I've said, and I repeat, the paper commission will be a matter I'm going to work intensively with. I'll do mine, as I've said. Otherwise, I have to say that there are many things this government has done in the area of family policy, one example is self-employed and maternity pay. It could have been introduced many years ago. I don't know why you haven't done this, for example. from the Workers' Party in position. But we did, and the scheme is already in place. So I just want to mention that there are some measures that we are actually able to implement within the family policy, and we're going to be able to handle the paper commission as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e533	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e536	I have a question for the Davøy Council. Now we've just heard about the sun's side, about fathers taking paper magazine, up to 85 pst. of them in fact. But we also have a shadow page. In the light of a number of tragic events related to child distribution in the last year, we politicians must note that the level of conflict has not been significantly lower. Governments have repeatedly pointed out the importance of reducing the level of conflict among stakeholders in such cases. My question is therefore: Has the Council considered whether it can be a solution to bring down the level of conflict by making a change in the law that automatically gives both parties shared care?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e545	I thank you for the question. The representative knows very well that there was a great debate on this in the Stortinget in connection with the family communication so late in December last year. A proposal by the Progress Party was thus voted down. Yeah, we've been thinking about it, and we've been evaluating it. It has been evaluated, and the Government and we have come to believe that this is not what we want in this round. It was debated quite thoroughly in Stortinget for a very short time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e552	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I guess I can't exactly say that I'm quite satisfied, and that's not the answer I had hoped for. However, I would point out that it is not only the parties in child distribution matters that are being affected, but perhaps the children are most affected. Since the council then has not intended to change the child law at this point, I would ask her how she intends to prevent such tragic matters from happening again. Is it possible to change the Children's Act so that cooperation is rewarded?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e557	First, I want to show that Stortinget has also joined a number of legislative changes in the Children's Act that are being implemented from 1 April this year. These are rules of procedure, procedural rules and some other important aspects relating to the child and the child’s legal certainty. We will be able to apply the new rules of procedure to conclude settlements in the course of the procedure, i.e. after the court has been set up. It will also be possible to try out different arrangements at home, including shared residence, and then you can come back to the court if things don't work, so that before you possibly have a main negotiation, this will be proven. So there are actually a number of good changes in the Children's Act that Stortinget has joined, and that we are now about to implement. We hope that it will also help to mitigate the level of conflict in these major cases. All the time, it's the child's best thing to focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e562	It will be one follow-up question – Eirin Fallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e566	We all have a hope and some theories in such divorce cases and divorce cases that two adults should be adults. How often do we not see that this is not the case? And in the middle of this, there are some kids who have problems. We're talking so good about the kids' best that applies, and the kids' right. But often it ends with the right of the child and the fight for the small details. I want to ask, on the basis of the family message we've been dealing with, about the Council of State as well, now that there's been some headlines in the newspapers and in the media about tragic events, does it not seem so easy to talk about the behaviour of two adults in such matters? Does she see that the children are often forgotten?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e571	Yes, I see that, and that was also why we changed the Children's Act, with new rules in this kind of child distribution case, from 1 April this year. In addition, the family message was strongly influenced by the introduction of preventive measures in relation to families, as was the case with the Stortinget – I am thinking of a priority of family protection offices, I am thinking of not least the life courses and parental guidance programmes, where we have increased the intensity both last year and this year. Not least, we also have this one-day course for parents when they have their first child, which we start with in the autumn. Otherwise, I would like to mention that in the case of the most difficult issues, where children are subjected to violence, for example. We have recently received a report, which will be published in a very short time. In this context, there are also likely to be some proposals for legislative changes related to children and association to safeguard the situation of children. Because it has actually been a big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e576	We're going to the last main question in today's oral Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e579	I have a question for the Foreign Minister. It's going on in the north and our efforts up there, and it's going on across the budget for aid there. We are now getting a signal from the Barents Secretariat that one has little money, the cuts that were made last time, one now starts to notice, especially about people working with people – it could be about supporting journalists, which is a very important job. If we are to support Russian democracy, we must also support, for example. exchange between Norwegian journalists and Russian journalists. We also have signs that it's being dragged in when it's for indigenous peoples, i.e. that indigenous peoples should be able to meet across national borders, and so on. Can we count on the government to follow up on the revision, and give more money to this cooperation going on in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e584	I understand that the perspective has now changed from asking what next year's budget means to what this year's budget revision will mean. The answer to that will of course be the same, but I would like to say in addition that it is clear that we must have the ultimate form of budgetary discipline. That means that the budget that the Storting itself has adopted is what we are governing, and it is of course only in the extreme cases that one should try to change it. It's a good rule that you have to set the tow according to your diet. That also applies here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e589	We also get strong signals from the environmental movement, and this is also in the budget. The environmental movement gives a clear signal that when it comes to nuclear safety, one should not only increase the permissions, but one should, in fact, perhaps even double them. Can we expect the Government to come up with new clear measures to deal with the major problems we have with nuclear security in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e594	There is no news that there are many who want more money for most, and the policy requirement is not that you can say yes to all of this, but that you have the ability to prioritise. That is why we are keeping within the budgets that have been adopted. These are the budgets that have now created the new economic optimism in Norway, which I am sure Jacobsen is happy too, but that means that there are some things you have to say no to. Now, maybe not what's foremost in SV's political vocabulary, but it's just as crucial to keep this society on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e599	It will be a follow-up question – Kjetil Bjørklund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e602	I have been travelling in some of the areas of North-West Russia where the Barents Secretariat has its work. The challenges in these areas are enormous. There's a lot of environmental damage in Kola. Large areas with dead nature and black snow made a strong impression. It also did the social distress, which is common in North-West Russia. So we're talking about one of the boundaries between countries on this globe with the greatest social differences. Thus, because of budget cuts, it is now impossible for the Barents Secretariat to carry out many projects that could give improved relations and greater interpersonal interaction in these areas. The number of projects has fallen dramatically. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether promoting the inter-ethnic understanding between Norway and Russia is an important foreign policy issue, and that such a way of working on it will have a major impact on foreign and security policy with careful financial effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e609	I can confirm that, and it lies in the appropriations proposed by the Government and adopted by the Storting. Through those appropriations, we have to make significant efforts in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e614	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e620	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Morten Höglund to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be taken up by the representative Christopher Stensaker. Question 4, from the representative of Gjermund Hagesetter to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister for Transport, this question is moved and answered before question 19, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 6, from the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen to the Minister for Health, will be answered that the Minister for Social Affairs, who is directing him. Question 18, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question 19, from the representative May Britt Vihovde to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Harald Hove. Question 20, from the representative of Mr Rudihagen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 24, from the representative of Mr Ingvild Vaggen Malvik to the Minister for the Environment, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 25, from the representative Sylvia Brustad to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered in response to question 11, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e647	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The collapse of the 5th WTO Ministerial Conference in Cancún reinforced the contradictions between rich and poor countries. Norway has tried to be a TRIPS bridge builder by, inter alia, opening up patent applications involving biological material to indicate the origin of this material. Will Norway work for a declaration that the TRIPS Agreement can be interpreted in such a way as to exempt at least the least developed countries from implementing the TRIPS Agreement in the field of biotechnology until 2016?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e656	The WTO TRIPS Agreement contains rules on the protection of so-called intellectual property rights, such as: patents and trade marks. Under the agreement, the least developed countries, the so-called MUL countries, have been given the deadline to implement the TRIPS agreement until 2006. In addition, the Doha declaration on TRIPS and public health agreed to extend the period to the least developed countries until 2016 in order to provide patent protection for medicinal products. This new deadline applies to all types of medicinal products, so that medicinal products manufactured on the basis of biotechnological processes are also included. I understand the representative Skei Grande that she wants the least developed countries to be allowed to extend the deadline for the implementation of the TRIPS agreement to 2016 for all types of biotechnological inventions, i.e. not just for medicinal products. Under the TRIPS Agreement, MUL countries may apply for a similar deferral, e.g.: for other biotechnological products, which they have received for medicinal products. For the time being, no request for a more extensive postponement has been made. However, Norway has expressed a positive opinion in the TRIPS Council on a further postponement if an application is to be made. The active involvement of Norway in obtaining a declaration will include: is based on what the MUL countries themselves wish for. However, let me assure you that Norway will continue to strive to play an active bridge builder role in TRIPS, in particular in order to safeguard the interests of the least developed countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e672	I would like to thank the Council of State for a positive response. I am very pleased with the role Norway played in relation to the 4th Ministerial Conference, where Norway was very active in the run-up to a good process. If it is the case that the MUL countries want us to also contribute to similar processes, does Norway want to have such an active role, primarily in order to achieve a positive process in the future, if desired?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e679	Just the wording that Skei Grande uses, "if desired", is the very core here. We must allow the MUL countries to define their own wishes, but it is clear that in this case Norway will be helpful.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e688	This question, from the representative of Morten Höglund to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Christopher Stensaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e691	‘Iran has conducted a parliamentary election which is almost a parody of democracy. This choice goes hand in hand with examples of Iran being a totalitarian state without respect for democratic rights. The Left's parliamentary leader, in a press release, has advocated that the world community should reject the elections. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs support the call of the Left, and in that case, what does he think Norway can do to support the establishment of real democracy in Iran?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e698	The government is deeply disappointed that the Iranian Security Council refused a wide range of reform politicians to make elections. It cannot therefore be called democratic. This is all the more discouraging given that Iran has previously made several elections that have brought its own representatives into the national assembly. The reformists asked before the elections that outsiders not interfere with the political crisis. They feared that foreign involvement could harm their cause more than it would benefit it. We have respect for this wish. I therefore do not believe that it would be right to work towards the rejection of the elections in Iran. Through our contact with the Iranian authorities, the government will continue to seek to promote respect for democracy and human rights in the country. I have used this opportunity for dialogue on several occasions, at the latest in my meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Kharazzi at the World Economic Forum in Davos in January, where I repeated our views on my Iranian colleague.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e707	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. I would also like to refer to the Foreign Minister's reply on 27 November 2003 to a letter from the representative Morten Höglund, where it is clear from the reply: ‘On the other hand, in my view, President Khatami, his government and the current majority of parliament in Iran show the will to promote change in the country.’ Following the disqualification of more than 2,000 reform-friendly candidates by the Guardian Council, and an electoral turnout in Tehran City of 28.1 p.m., does the Foreign Minister still feel that there is a willingness to change in the country, and in what direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e719	In the letter that Stensaker referred to, I was clear about who showed this will. There is a point of view that there is no basis for over-estimation. That is exactly why in my answer I put the search light on the role of the Supervisory Board. There is no doubt that there has been and is a struggle between forces in Iran, where someone stands for further democratization, while very strong forces, as we have now seen, stand for the opposite course. That's right now, and it was unfortunately right when I wrote the letter, where we put searchlights on those who are currently leading the process in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e727	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘According to the Official Journal of Bergen on 28 February, the Right addressed the issue of the introduction of the euro as a currency in Norway and concluded that it is fully possible to use the euro even if we are not members of the European Economic and Monetary Union. To the newspaper, one of the party’s largest representatives states that he agrees with those who claim that Norway should soon adopt the euro as a currency, regardless of Norwegian EU membership. Does the Council of State share this view?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e736	I think it is most natural that the introduction of the euro as Norwegian means of payment should take place in connection with any Norwegian EU membership, even if it is technically feasible to do so on a one-sided basis. There are no formal conditions in international agreements that prevent Norway from using the euro as a means of payment. One might imagine different ways to do so, but in common with these ways, as long as we are not members of the European Union, the introduction will take place without a formal link with the European Central Bank. However, the introduction of the euro into Norway will have to be assumed to be cleared with that bank. The advantage of a single currency is that price comparisons between countries are made easier, which may result in increased cross-border competition and thus lower prices for consumers. Moreover, unnecessary fluctuations in the exchange rate between the countries concerned are avoided. The disadvantage is the loss of the ability to use monetary policy to dampen fluctuations in the national economy. However, significant changes have occurred here since the 1980s and early 1990s. The vulnerability of oil price fluctuations in the Norwegian economy is clearly lower today than in the past. This is due to three factors: Firstly, the Petroleum Fund arranges for the bulk of the foreign currency income from the oil business to be placed abroad. The Norwegian economy and the Norwegian krona are thus shielded from fluctuations in oil revenue. Secondly, the rule of action for the use of oil revenues makes fiscal policy more robust to fluctuations in oil price. Thirdly, oil investments are more robust to lower oil prices now than they were at, for example. The 1980s. Oil activities are in a more mature phase, so that much of the annual costs are linked to maintenance investments on existing installations. Overall, this means that economic developments in Norway will in the future be more in line with the countries around us than in the last few decades. Increased labour mobility in the EEA region is moving in the same direction. Thus, the disadvantages of introducing the euro in Norway appear to be significantly less now than in previous EU reconciliations. However, I do not consider it relevant to introduce the euro as Norwegian means of payment without it being done in connection with any Norwegian EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e759	I am glad that the Minister of Finance so clearly puts to death the play that came from one of the members of his own party. It would be a very special situation if a well-developed industrialised country were to do the same thing as only some so-called banana republics in Latin America have done in recent years, namely to introduce another country's currency without itself having any influence on monetary policy and interest rate fixing. 60 pst. Norway’s external trade is with countries outside the euro zone. Many economists have recently pointed out that for these parts of Norwegian competitive business, euro membership would lead to even greater fluctuations in framework conditions than has been the result of our own Norwegian monetary policy in recent years. We have therefore seen several times that it has been argued that the arguments for membership of EMU for Norway are primarily political and not economic. [[The President Clubs Again]] Does the Council agree with such a view to EMU?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e768	The President must remember that speaking time exists to be observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e771	I could essentially answer no. I don't agree with such a way of looking at it. My answer is that if we are at the same time a member of the European Union, the euro could have a significant beneficial effect on Norway. Otherwise, I'll probably take some reservations about characterizing all the other countries that have attached themselves to the currency of another country by using it or directly hanging on it, as banana republics. I think it affects a part of our good neighboring countries in a way that is not intended by the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e778	The President wondered why bananas should be reserved for republics. Aren't there monarchies, too?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e781	I don't think we'd be a banana kingdom like that. Neither the Finance Minister nor I believe that. I want to ask you one last question. EMU membership is, of course, the Treaty on European Union as part of European integration, and it is the EU's clear intention that future Member States should also participate fully in EMU cooperation. Nevertheless, in several rounds of the Norwegian EU debate, there has been speculation about the possibility of obtaining different derogations in connection with EMU. Does the Minister of Finance think that in future negotiations with the EU Norway can be exempted from membership of EMU, or does the Minister of Finance expect us to have to assume that Norwegian EU membership will also mean full participation in monetary cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e788	It is an interesting sign in time that an SV representative now discusses as if we were an EU member, or very quickly was going to be. I would like to take those premises and answer the following: there would be no reasonable reason why Norway, as part of the membership negotiations, should ask for a permanent derogation from participating in the euro zone. We meet and we overwhelm all the Maastricht criteria for good, and we are so integrated into the euro area as it is now, and which will gradually be expanded, that we have all the opportunities to do so. As I explained in my reply, the Norwegian economy has evolved so that we are now moving more in line with the euro area in economic terms than we did in the 1980s and 1990s, and that is a development that will only continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e795	Question 4 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e801	‘Bergen Diakonissehjem, a non-profit institution, considers that hospital operations at Haraldsplaats Diakonale Hospital should be discontinued if the financial situation of the hospital is not corrected by the contracting entity, Health West. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Haraldsplaats Diakonale Hospital as an ideally operated hospital can still be part of the public specialist health service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e806	Initially, I would like to stress that both Health West and I assume that private businesses will contribute to the provision of healthcare, and that Haraldsplatz Diakonale Hospital AS will be part of the overall specialist healthcare service provision for the population of Health West. Private non-profit hospitals are significant providers of healthcare and serve as an integral part of the public specialist health service. In the context of the state acquisition of specialist health care and the organisation of health establishments, it was assumed that the role and framework conditions of private health care establishments should be continued. Under the Health Business Act, regional health establishments were obliged to continue and conclude new agreements with private operators. In line with these leaders, Health Vest entered into its own long-term agreements in the spring of 2002 with all private non-profit institutions providing specialist health services in the region. Three-year agreements with an option of a further three years were concluded on a common template. Health West has stressed that their overall objective is to give private non-profit institutions a level playing field with their own health businesses. For example, provisions have been included in the agreements that allow private non-profit institutions to participate in any improved framework conditions in line with self-employed enterprises. Health West has recently implemented new negotiations and concluded agreements with the private non-profit hospitals. In view of the difficult economic situation, the agreement with Haraldsplatz Diakonale Hospital AS increased by 6 million. kr for the current year in addition to the framework conditions established on the basis of the principle of non-discrimination with the other public and private non-profit hospitals. In addition, Health West has guaranteed in the agreement that the DRG price will be at the minimum level specified in the State budget. Haraldsplatz Diakonale Hospital AS is an important actor in Health West's care for-responsibility. I believe that Health Vest has given clear signals that they want Haraldsplatz as an independent private institution to be part of the specialist health service provision in the region. Based on the responsibility and on the fact that Haraldsplatz Diakonale Hospital is an important part of the specialist offer in Bergen, Health West launched a project in May 2003 to look at future cooperation and division of tasks between Health Bergen HF and Haraldsplatz Diakonale Sykeshus AS. The aim of the project has been to assess whether increased cooperation between the two hospitals and change in the division of tasks can provide better quality healthcare to patients and better resource use. The project team, consisting of representatives from Haraldsplatz Diakonale Hospital AS, Health Bergen HF and Health Vest, has proposed and agreed on a number of short-term cooperation measures. These include, for example, closer cooperation on patient distribution, emergency and watch systems, lab/blood bank, x-ray, ICT and procurement. These short-term measures could improve the quality of service provision and provide financial savings. In the case of a longer-term strategy for functional distribution, the group has not reached an agreement. However, there is agreement to consider whether a specific investigation should be made. The matter shall be dealt with by the Board of Health Bergen on 22 March this year. I trust that Health West is working to ensure the institution reasonable and predictable framework conditions. This is in line with the steering signals given by us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e821	I thank you for your answer. I also know that the acute crisis is over. Health West responded, and the hospital received funds that make it proper to continue operating. However, the uncertainty associated with the budgetary situation is causing a great deal of concern to the population, and it is causing concern to the owners and to the employees. Should not the Health West contracting entity conclude long-term contracts? Then we talk about long-term contracts in such a perspective that the hospital can actually carry out the necessary further development needed at this hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e828	I believe that what I have explained shows that Health West rates in Haraldsplatz. I also believe that the processes that have been initiated with regard to cooperation actions between Health Bergen and Haraldsplatz are an expression of the same thing. It is also, from my point of view, an expression of long-termity when you relate not only to the operating agreement but also to longer-term, structural and strategic actions. In my view, the message that lies in the way of the Health West is in line with the intention that I understand behind the question of the representative of Skjellaaen, that is, that this is an important part of the specialist health service in the area, and that is part of what you put in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e833	Some of the difficult situation for Haraldsplatz Diakonale Hospital AS is also due to the debt that the hospital had incurred from 2000 to 2001. In fact, Bergen Diakonissehjem had to go to court to find out if it was Hordaland County Municipality or Health West that was against the debt that the hospital had incurred on this operating deficit. It turned out to be Health West that was the right counterparty. My question is, shouldn't the department clarify these matters, so that you would have avoided going to court? Some of these factors contribute to the uncertainty of the owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e840	I think the difficult economic situation at Haraldsplatz Diakonale Hospital AS has several reasons. It has to do with how to handle the building mass when you went to share companies. It has something to do with factors relating to increased pension liabilities, deficits and uncertainties relating to the financial settlement of the transition from county to state ownership, to which the representative of the Skjärlaa refers. It would not be right for me to go into the legal issues that have arisen in this connection, but I would point out that there is now agreement between Health West and Haraldsplatz Diakonale Hospital AS to initiate a process to resolve this dispute. That would be good for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e850	This question, from Asmund Kristoffersen to the Minister of Health, will be answered by the Minister of Social Affairs who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e853	The following questions will then be addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘In contact with drug users, relatives and treatment providers, there is a marked failure in the follow-up of drug users after the end of treatment in, for example: institution. Drug users seeking help and treatment have a legal right to treatment and to an individual treatment and follow-up plan. How is the right to follow-up of the individual drug user exercised through the right to an individual plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e862	The question is addressed to the Minister of Health, but I want to answer the question. Treatment of drug users is shared between health businesses, which are the responsibility of the Minister of Health, and the social service, which is a municipal service under my responsibility. The question points to the importance of interaction between the different actors because users are moving in the treatment system. The treatment institutions have now been transferred from the county municipalities to the state. However, social services in municipalities continue to have the same responsibility in relation to the other services for drug users. The need for coordination of measures is the background for the legalisation of the right to individual level in the Social Services Act. For example, when detoxification from an institution requires social services, and the patient wants it, it is important that the social service of the municipality in question be contacted in good time, so that the municipality can plan and initiate further treatment as quickly as possible. It can help provide housing and work, support for living until the user comes to work, help for social activities, etc. Different establishments must be involved depending on the individual’s needs. The establishment and social security system may be necessary in relation to rehabilitation, rehabilitation or disability. Others need treatment in psychiatry. Health problems after many years of abuse are common and require close follow-up of the health system. It is an important premise that one individual plan is drawn up for the user and that the plan covers all necessary services, irrespective of the type of service it is. The aim is to contribute to active user involvement, security and predictability, to clarify responsibilities, and to cross-sectoral cooperation. In healthcare, patients have been entitled to individual levels under the Patient Rights Act since 1 July 2001. The right to individual level under the Social Services Act entered into force on 1 January 2004. We therefore currently have little systematic knowledge of the practice of this law. However, this development is closely followed by the Social and Health Directorate and the State Health Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e877	I thank you for your answer and understand that the Minister's experience with regard to the results is so small, of course, as it is so soon since the law came into force. Then, too, many of us working on social and health issues are constantly facing addicts and relatives who tell of an unacceptable everyday life when a drug addict has been in treatment and comes to his home environment where there is a lack of after-care. Clearly, this means that an animal treatment site and an animal treatment can be discarded if the after-care facility is not in place. I guess it has to get better in the future, as the Social Minister now stressed so far that she had expectations of. But it's important that society doesn't care about just that follow-up. My concern and my question to the Minister is: What control mechanism do we have to ensure that these are actually followed up by an individual plan? I am concerned that what we have said is actually to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e884	It's an important topic the representative of Kristoffersen addresses. The supervisory authorities will be important in precisely social supervision of municipalities, and in particular in relation to the coordination to be carried out in relation to the individual drug addict. In addition, the Social and Health Directorate has been given a special responsibility to follow up the use of one individual plan and to use it as an instrument. It should also be said that some municipalities in Norway have already used this tool, without the need for legal certainty, and some municipalities already have important experience and have not been legally obliged to do so. Now the individual drug addict has the opportunity and the right to say that ‘I want an individual plan where the measures around me are coordinated and clearly responsible for who does what’, so that the actions around him are linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e891	Implicit in my main question was actually a description of the situation that has now arisen, that there are actually vacancies in drug treatment institutions without using them. The reason is that health care businesses do not have the finances to provide treatment to those seeking treatment. This is a right to treatment that these patients have, and therefore are not met. So treatment and aftercare are closely linked, and must be closely linked if treatment is to have value and meaning. Then is my last question: how will the Minister of Social Affairs deal with the fact that many today are denied treatment and, therefore, post-protection issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e901	What is under the responsibility of health businesses lies with the Minister for Health. But I want to say that the government is very concerned that there should be a whole in the treatment offer. Drug users are entitled to treatment when transferring from county municipalities to regional health establishments. This also means assessing which treatment measures are needed. What is important is that every drug addict lives in a municipality, and it is still the municipality that is responsible for its inhabitants, including those who are drug addicts. Indeed, the individual level is exactly the one that each individual should have. It is the glue that ensures that things are planned, from acute detoxification to treatment, after-sales protection and the ability to operate in the community of the municipality again. We will follow this closely, both in relation to the evaluation and review of drug reforms, and also in relation to this glue as an individual level.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e909	I would like to ask the Minister of Health a question: ‘Abort rates are rising again after a decline in recent years. The games are concerned that several teenagers are taking an abortion. Despite the available prevention and increase in the sale of withdrawal pills, abortion rates increase. We are higher than countries we compare with. Several hospitals report a decrease in the number of sterilisations after the introduction of excess. Poor municipal economy leads to a decline in school health. What will the Council of State do to reverse these developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e918	I have recently presented an action plan to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion. It applies for the period 2004-2008. The main objectives of the action plan are the reduction of abortion rates and the optimum starting point for all to plan pregnancy and have a safe sexual life. Abortion rates for 2003 do not occur until April this year. It is therefore too early to conclude that abortion rates are rising on a national basis, based on some reports from some hospitals. As regards the rate of abortion in the youngest age groups, according to the Directorate for Social and Health, developments have been positive in Norway in the last two years. Sweden, Finland and Iceland have had an increase in the rate of abortion among teenagers from the mid-1990s to 2002, while Denmark and Norway have had a decrease. Sweden and Iceland have had higher abortion rates among teenagers than Norway, while Finland and Denmark are slightly below Norway in terms of the teenage age. In order to further reduce the number of abortions, many of the measures in the action plan will be continued, such as: easy access to contraception. Many measures should be developed or maintained, such as: Sex education at school, to new annual coals each year. New measures will strengthen teaching to develop positive attitudes and limits in relation to sexual activity and prevention use. New follow-up training measures for permanent practitioners and other health professionals to enhance their competence in relation to those groups with special needs, groups with ethnic minority backgrounds and not least the 20-24 age group shall be developed in cooperation between the Directorate and stakeholders. The Social and Health Directorate has also been commissioned by the Action Plan to summarise the experience gained in the practice of the Act on Sterilisation, and to improve the quality of the data, just to summarise experience with the scheme adopted by the Storting, in relation to any changes in the number of abortions. As far as school health is concerned, the new regulation which came into force last summer provides an important signal to municipalities to give priority to health and school health services. The service shall be provided as an overall offer to children and young people from 0 to 20 years of age. Young people’s health centre, which is an extension of the school health service, contributes to increased accessibility for health issues addressed by young people. In the case of school health capacity, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, the number of annual shifts in the service increased by 700 between 1994 and 2002. This means that there has been a steady increase in annual work in health and school health services. In addition, 285 youth health centres have been established in municipalities during the same period. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has in the course of work a common supervisor that elaborates the tasks of the Health and Health Services Regulation. Citizens shall contribute to the implementation of the Regulation and its Guide. The aim of these measures is to support the municipalities in the desired conversion to a comprehensive service and in the continuous quality improvement work of the health centre and school health service. A major effort is being made to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion in municipalities, and the 2004-2008 Action Plan will help to stimulate this important work on additional funding. In 2004, we put 21.6 million. kr on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e937	I would like to thank you for your answer. Poor municipal economy has led to a reduction in the number of school health staff in some of the municipalities that have the most problems. That is in so far as a choice is made by local politicians. It is also the case that the health centre for young people is not required by law. A number of new prevention methods have also been introduced on the market. We've got the patch, and we've got the withdrawal pills. P-plaster and withdrawal pills are not free of charge, as are the p-pillars. Would the Council of State be planning to legislate health stations for young people? Would he think to give withdrawal pills and patches for free to young people under the age of 20?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e946	As far as legal legislation is concerned, through the new regulation on health care, we have laid the foundations for such a comprehensive service, which also includes a health centre for young people, i.e. for children and young people from 0 to 20 years of age. When it comes to the issue of new prevention methods and methods of prevention, it is my view that we should keep up with it. For example, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has: to evaluate the experience of the attacker. We will follow up on a continuous basis if progress is made to make such contraceptives available, subsidized, as is currently the case for other types of prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e953	The Council of State did not respond to whether he believes that the proportion of sterilisation has caused fewer sterilisation and that the number of abortions is increasing for that reason. Will the Council consider removing this excess? So to one more question. Sexual education clinic carries out prevention work aimed at unwanted pregnancy. They provide an action plan for the prevention of unwanted pregnancy, but there is much more to be done to prevent abortion in women who are already pregnant. What is the reason for the large difference in the allocation of the State budget of KSO and AAN The name has now been changed to Amathea. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e963	As I said in my main response, the Social and Health Directorate has a mandate to follow up on how the sterilisation law is being practised, among other things. at this point. They have also been assigned to improve the quality of the sterilisation data, so that we can summarise the scheme in relation to any changes in the number of abortions, as the representative of May Hansen asks. We'll follow that closely. Then the representative Hansen has a question about the relationship between the support of different actors in this picture. This action plan is about both preventing unwanted pregnancy and preventing abortions. KSO, a sexual education clinic, is an important partner, especially in the prevention of unwanted pregnancy, and they will continue to be, as Amathea will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e973	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘Gilde FS has decided to lay down the slaughterhouse in Skien. A report by the slaughterhouse staff indicates that the actual transport time to the slaughterhouses to take over the slaughter which is currently taking place in the ski will exceed the permitted 8 hours if loading time is also included. Will the Council of State ensure that the validity of the FS is not permitted to add to a slaughterhouse structure which is subject to a breach of the current rules on the transport time of live animals?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e982	Private agricultural enterprises and the processing of agricultural products are assimilated to private industrial activities in other sectors and face the same challenges related to higher efficiency and profitability requirements. Questions about shutting down units within the various companies are a matter that is assessed by the company's own owners, and I cannot or will not be able to go into. The transport of animals to slaughterhouses is currently regulated by a separate regulation on the transport of live animals. The purpose of this Regulation is to ensure that animals during transport are treated well and protected as best as possible. The general rule is that the journey time cannot be more than eight hours, and it cannot be added to transport arrangements which systematically exceed this limit. I believe these rules are important, and I have no plans to reduce the requirements on animal protection and animal welfare. Any restructuring of slaughterhouse operations does not lead to any amendment of the legislation and no exemptions will be granted. I therefore assume that valid FS decisions on restructuring take place within the legal and regulatory framework given, including in relation to animal protection and animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e993	I thank you for your answer. In connection with the closure of the slaughterhouse in Skien, Gilde adds to a system of transhipment of animals from smaller cars to larger ones at certain transhipment points in order to try to reduce the overall journey time. I'm familiar with that, among other things. legislation on the transport of live animals is currently in progress in the EU and this legislation does not refer to transhipment as an appropriate alternative. Does the Council of State believe that this type of transhipment is an acceptable system for both good and good animal welfare and for the deterioration in the quality of meat known to occur during stress and adverse effects resulting from transport and handling in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1004	The legislation we have, which is based on the regulation that I referred to, operates with an eight-hour rule, and it also says a lot about transport in a way that is best for animals. I also know that the slaughterhouses and transporters have done considerable work in recent years in getting a type of transport that is as gentle on the animals as possible. It concerns as simple things as calm movements in the car, how to drive in turns, the quality of the cars and a lot of such conditions. In my opinion, if the other rules for the handling of animals are complied with, the system of more efficient transhipment operations is sound. But as I said, it's not going to change these rules. So slaughterhouses have to deal with these rules when they set out their structure, and they can't expect that in the future there will be changes at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1011	I have also been contacted by producers in Telemark who are organically producing sheep meat. In order for them to market and sell their products as organic products, the total transport time may not exceed six hours, as I understand it. The closure of the slaughterhouse in Skien will thus put an end to the organic production of sheep meat in Telemark and perhaps also in neighbouring states. The question is then: what will the Council of State do to prevent the closure of slaughterhouses and hence the longer transport time from destroying the possibilities for organic production of meat, which I have also understood the Council of State is very concerned about?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1018	It is true that there are other types of organic production rules, and it is also true that members of the organically produced slaughterhouse cooperative are entitled to have their products delivered. There are conditions that slaughterhouses must rely on when setting up their structure and transport procedures. But fortunately, when one actor pulls out of an area, it opens up opportunities for others to establish themselves. It is not that one slaughterhouse is laid down, which means that there cannot be another slaughterhouse in the area that can be taken over. There's competition, and there's competition. It is free of establishment for others who will provide slaughterhouse services to suppliers. I assume that in this area competition works so that there will be good offers for all suppliers also in the area that this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1026	‘The police high school activity at Bruvoll in the North Odal was unfortunately adopted by the Government last year. In return, new work was promised for the added and transferred parts of the business to Setter farm outside Kongsvinger. What is the situation today for employees, and what should be moved to Setter Farm?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1033	The question has been referred to the Police Directorate, which states that the work is well under way. Two briefing meetings have been held with the employees of the North Odal School of Education, where the union representative of the employees has also participated. In addition, there has been a conversation with individual employees to identify competences and other factors relevant to the future job offer; The closure in Nord-Odal is intended to release approx. 7.5 million. kr. Based on the results of the development of Säter farm, the Police College wishes to use up to one third of the sum there and the remaining funds for the Judicial Sector Training Centre in Stavern. It has been decided that the training centre at Setter farm in Kongsvinger should be upgraded and strengthened. Some minor modifications and adaptations to existing building stock on the Setter farm have already been carried out. Plans for the restoration and upgrade of an old boarding house have been completed. The police high school is now working on plans to move the workshop from North Odal to Setter Farm. The police high school wants to transfer personnel to the workshop, kitchen, cleaning and office. A training position in Oslo is already established. The Directorate of Police is now negotiating a conversion agreement. Good solutions are expected for all employees by 1 October 2004. This takes into account the new special agreement of 1 January 2004 on conversion in the country. The work is currently in a very active phase. However, it is too early at this stage in the process to finally express the course and activities to be moved to Setter Farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1044	I thank you for your answer. Despite our disagreement at the outset, I am pleased that the Minister of Justice and the Department have so clearly indicated in this case that they are to provide work for people who remain without it, that alternative activities are to be provided, or at least contribute to it, in a part of the country that is struggling quite significantly, and the last thing that we need to do is to use the farm in the way that is now sketched. This is what I think the department and the parties involved deserve credit for, and it also makes me partly relieved in view of the process we are now facing. Is it true that the decision has now been made in relation to Seats and the expansion plans that are there, among other things. as mentioned by the Minister of Justice now on the construction of boarding schools, and in which Kongsvinger municipality is also well involved as a builder? Is it the case that a decision has been made that this should now be started?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1053	I said we're now in a process to sort it out, that we've made clear plans. It is clear from the answer that we are going to use Sets, among others. the workshop and the staff. But there are aspects of the matter that have not been completed, so I will come back to that. I am firmly committed to what is the representative's business, and which is common to us, that we should upgrade the Farm Seat and ensure that all employees in the North Odal get a meaningful job afterwards. It turns out from the knowledge that I have now, that many of them can of course expect to get in the area. We saw in our time several possibilities, both the Set farm, the prison in Kongswinger and the police for the rest. We're going to make sure that this is followed up properly for the employees. As for the final clearance of all sides of the Setter, I have nothing to add to what I said, that we are now in a very active process, and that I have to get back to it. But my basic attitude is quite clear, as the representative has described it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1062	I am pleased with the answer, and I thank you for the answer. I think this is something we can get a win-win situation off. It strikes me when we consider projects and establishments such as Setter Farm, that here the public gets an incredibly large amount of money in relation to quite reasonable basic investments. I just have a call to the Minister of Justice in that way, and it's to see if there's any possibility of establishing a reasonable amount of money in some of the driving and shooting activity that was at the former plant, under the Setter farm. I know it's hard to answer it on the stand, but I just want to encourage the political leadership to go into it to see if there's anything to save on it. Last but not least, the third part of this Decision, in relation to Bruvoll, is of great importance in putting pressure on the assistance to be provided in order to establish other types of activities in the premises which remain on Bruvoll and which are not, to a large extent, worn down but which should be applicable. In this way, I ask the Minister of Justice whether there are concrete plans for new activities at Bruvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1071	I take the representative's views with me and, of course, have his understanding that I am not commenting on the first part of the question now. When it comes to Bruvoll, I know it's been working on different ideas, but at the moment I don't have anything concrete that I know about, on my table. We're going to investigate what we can investigate, and contribute to what we can contribute, and we're going to do that until we're out of ideas. Of course, we're also open to those recordings that had to come from the municipality, given that we've said we were willing to have a dialogue on this. Otherwise, I would like to thank the representative for a constructive tone. We had a different view initially, but we have a common view that what is now the result must be real. In this context, I would also like to thank the representative for a very constructive contribution he had in his time for putting the prison in Kongswinger. Sometimes it's like this in the hall that we can compete party politics, but we can also work together on solutions. The representative is quite right that we are talking about a part of the country that needs jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1083	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘The rapporteur in Halden has recorded signals indicating that the construction of the new large prison in the municipality is being pushed out in time. Planning and design will be postponed because of a lack of funding from central authorities. Will the Council of State provide information on what appropriations can be expected from the State budget for 2005 so that planning work can begin?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1092	I cannot go into any discussion about the 2005 state budget until the Government has submitted its overall budget. A budgetary matter is only a budgetary matter when the budget is presented. However, I would add that in the 2004 draft budget, the Government provided funds to continue work on new prisons in Halden. Work on new prisons in Halden is now in a new phase. In the practical design work, drawings and documents are ensured. The cost framework is for external review and quality assurance, in line with the guidelines for large-scale State investment. I remind you that the ordinary procedure for State-owned construction projects is to complete detailed design and to draw up tender documents only after the cost framework has been approved and start-up appropriations have been granted for the project. That is how it is also presented in this case now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1101	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand, of course, that he cannot make any specific amount until the state budget is presented at the beginning of October. I also know the procedures for state construction projects, but it is now such that Halden Municipality and those who decide there take this task that is to be solved also by the municipality, very seriously. They want and are eager to get started on infrastructure and other things, so that we can start in 2005 by building this prison. It concerns the planning, organisation and other tasks for which they are involved. I would like to remind the Council of State that, in the Question Time on 30 April last year, he said that the project would be able to ‘keep up with the timetable to which it... has been assigned’, i.e. that the prison can be completed in 2006. Will the Council of State maintain the timetable set for the construction of the Great Prison at Torpum in Halden?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1112	The timetable and information on the development of the Halden prison have been corrected both in connection with the current year’s state budget, in the examination of the budget of the Judicial Committee and in a parallel written question to me, with the same subject as the question from the representative Hedstrom, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen. There I have given exactly the same answer that I have now given to the representative Hedstrom. It will be some delays, based on the progress that this work has made. I've said that in the past. That is the practical situation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1119	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. It was a signal that there will be delays. The municipality gets that signal through two Eastfold representatives, perhaps with a slightly different wording. I do not know what the written answer says. Nevertheless, we are very concerned about getting this big prison. It has been planned and prepared for many years and will have a major impact both on Eastfold and on the country in order to meet the tasks in the justice sector it is intended to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1126	Party representatives are treated equally by me. I do not remember in the hurry that the representative Svein Roald Hansen received a different response from the representative Hedstrom. If he had received it, I would have broken with all the basic principles, both for my behaviour towards big business representatives in this room and against the actual situation. The Judicial Committee has underlined the importance of this project. But I want to show that there are a number of measures going on in the East, where we have a large pay queue, both in Kongswinger, on which I was concerned with the previous questions of Question Time from the representative of Storberget, in Oslo prison, and also temporary solutions in Kongswinger. We also have other measures. I'm aware of what we need for settlements, and I get to get back to it based on what becomes the government's arrangement when we bring the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1137	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Hamar Arbeiderblad reports on 3 March about two police officers who travelled the trip back Trysil, i.e. 200 km, and spent an entire working day as well as two hours overtime transporting a custody prisoner from the Hamar Police Station to the warehouse. The distance is 800 – eight hundred – meters. Pressed budgets make it difficult to see that this is a sensible use of resources. Can the Council of State provide information on the procedures applicable to such shipments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1146	In each police district, the chief of police is responsible for planning the problem so that the best possible police service is provided within the resources available at all times. In Hedmark Police District, current procedures for the transport and manufacture of custody prisoners are such that the entity as the ‘owner’ of the case is responsible for transport and manufacture. However, Hedmark Police District is large in scope and, in order to be as cost-effective as possible, the Hamar Police Station, as a general rule, has assisted the other services in the district with these tasks. The question has been referred to the Directorate of Police, which gives the following information: Even in the case of the above - mentioned assignment, it was assessed whether Hamar or Elverum police station could assist in transportation and manufacture. For several reasons it was precisely this time impossible to obtain, and the alternative, as the police district assessed the situation, was to order police officers overtime to carry out the mission. The Police Directorate believes that the police district has chosen an unfortunate solution in the matter at hand. The police directorate will follow up the case against the police district in order to assess whether this case is an isolated incident in relation to the existing procedures for transport and manufacturing in Hedmark police district. I can inform the representative here that I am not satisfied with the result of the assessments that have been made here, based on the information I have received. I will also provide the following additional information: The transport and manufacture of custody prisoners is a task that requires considerable resources in police districts. The Ministry of Justice has therefore focused on this issue, and the Directorate of Police will now launch a pilot project in 2004 to launch a prisoner transport tender. Another part of this project, in cooperation with criminal services, is aimed at better coordination of the transport of arrested, custody prisoners and sentences. Hedmark Police District will be one of the pilot districts of such a scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1165	I would very much like to thank the Council of State for a very clear and correct answer. We will probably quickly agree that neither I nor the Council of State are going to operate with detailed regulation of police districts. But we must be able to say that in connection with the police reform, it was probably just these things we had in mind that we should avoid. However, I think the answer from the Council of State is so clear that I assume that it will be noticed in the relevant police district, and that, if necessary, the Police Directorate will follow up the matter to the extent necessary. I'm not looking to hang anyone out in such a case, but to find constructive solutions, so that this can be avoided for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1174	I think everyone is looking for constructive solutions. As I said, I have referred the matter to the Police Directorate, who has given me the clear comment and the clear conclusion that they have. I have not found any reason to add anything or subtract anything. At the same time, I would like to focus on the fact that there will be work to coordinate everything that concerns the production and care of the East, and I stress the cooperation that will take place between the criminal services and the police. I think it might be some idle drive. Taking advantage of this in cooperation between the criminal services and the police, I take a positive view.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1183	We're now going to question 25.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1190	This question, from the representative Sylvia Brustad to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1193	I will be asked the following questions: ‘In the evening post on 2 March, it appears that the delayed mapping process will be delayed by one year and that the level of ambition for new measurements has been reduced. The reason is stated to be the imposition of VAT on services. At the latest during the budgetary procedure of the Stortingen, the Minister for the Environment confirmed that cutbacks in the allocation to the Cartel would not affect the required charting. Can the Council of State confirm that the objective of electronic maritime mapping is at stake?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1202	Forced charting is a high priority. The government's ambition level was presented in St.meld. No 30 for 2002-2003, ‘Norway digital’ — a common foundation for value creation. The aim is that the Norwegian coast has a satisfactory coverage of authorised electronic navigational charts for all important navigational leaders during 2006. This target is firm. Following completion of the service programme, the State Maps will focus on the maintenance, modernisation of the port maps and upgrading of individual areas which were initially not prioritised according to the need for navigation security. The introduction of VAT on consultancy services means that all users of consultants have to pay VAT in addition to normal fees. In the same way as in other State activities, the State’s mapping works received compensation for the introduction of VAT on mapping services. I cannot see that the implementation of this reform has had a decisive impact on the progress of maritime monitoring. Over the last few years, the Minister for the Environment has given priority to maritime monitoring as the main response area. It follows a plan aimed at achieving targets as foreseen in 2006. By the end of 2003, the finished electronic maritime map was available from the Swedish border to and including Vega in the Nordic region, as well as in areas of Troms and Finnmark. The Ministry of the Environment has a continuous follow-up to its work and will, if necessary, take action to achieve the set objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1213	Firstly, I thank you for the answer, and I am to a great extent also satisfied with the answer, because it shows that the information given in the evening post that it may be one year late is wrong. The majority in the Stortinget, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, showed among others. during the examination of this case, if there is a change in the priority of maritime mapping, the Government will have to come back with a case on that matter. But according to what the Minister of Justice now says, I realize that the objective is firm, that the pace is kept up, and that we are sure that the charts come when they are going to, so that one can thus also become safer when a voyage at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1220	That's the information I have to provide on behalf of the Minister for the Environment. The information is also in line with the response I gave to the representative Bastesen, who asked the same question with a slightly different reason in practice, namely that we should have a safe fairway. I have nothing to add to the answer I have already given.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1225	So we go back to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1231	I will ask the Minister for Development the following question: ‘Norway has provided financial support for training in the Palestinian self-government areas for several years. In order to create peace and reconciliation, it is essential that Palestinians and Israelis have knowledge of each other. Palestinian school books do not refer to Israel as an independent state, and maps of the territory do not show the State of Israel. Israeli cities within the 1967 border are also not described as Israeli. What can the Council of State do to the Palestinian school authorities in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1240	Education is a high priority field of Norwegian development cooperation. Norway supports school authorities through funding for the construction and rehabilitating of schools and the enhancement of teachers’ skills. From 1996 to 2002, Norway contributed 145 million. NOK to this. However, we are not funding textbooks. As part of the Palestinian 5 year development plan for the education sector, 2000–2005, the establishment of a unified Palestinian curriculum based on democratic principles and human rights is included. Per. The current date is a new curriculum and new textbooks for 1 to 4. and 6–9. class step. Four class steps still have no new textbooks, and for these steps older textbooks are used in the West Bank and Egyptian textbooks in Gaza. By 2006 all primary class steps shall have put into effect the new curriculum and its related textbooks. This work is supported by a number of donors. Palestinian textbooks have been the subject of debate and accusations of spreading anti-Israeli attitudes both locally and in international forums over time. On this basis, several external reviews of the new Palestinian textbooks have been carried out. On this basis, other EU Commissions and Belgium have concluded that the allegations are unfounded. The last review, from March 2003, was carried out by the recognised research institute IPCRI, Israel/Palestine Center for Research and Information, on behalf of the US Congress. According to the report to the U.S. Congress, the content of the new textbooks is not anti-Israeli or of such a nature that it counters peace. A similar review of Israeli textbooks is under way, and the results are expected with the first. In the ongoing dialogue with the Palestinian school authorities, the Norwegian authorities discuss the various reports, results and recommendations. With regard to the problem of the use of maps, this is an important but difficult issue for both parties in the conflict. According to the report, Palestinian school authorities use neither the name Israel nor Palestine on new maps. The IPCRI report points out that the textbooks have been developed during an interim period during which the border issue has not been resolved and that the Palestinian school authorities explain that this is a question to be addressed between the parties in final negotiations. If the areas were marked by names, this could be seen as a unilateral feature in the final negotiations. However, IPCRI recommends the use of terms that reflect both historical facts and today's political reality. In concrete terms, they propose that names in the areas be used as described in, inter alia: international agreements and UN resolutions: Israel, the Palestinian Authority, the West Bank and Gaza. The Norwegian side is concerned that the parties are not using school books or maps for propaganda purposes. This, of course, has also been on the agenda in discussions with the Palestinian self-government authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1255	I thank you for the answer, and I am happy to hear that this has been taken up with the Palestinian authorities. I know that this has been a recurring topic, and that there has been a change in the last of the 2000 curriculum, I have seen. But I read the report differently – or longer – than the Council of State now refers to. The accusations against textbooks used in Palestinian schools have not been unfounded, that is why they have changed. Yet they are not good enough, because they do not show the existence of Israel. Among other things, I have The report from IPCRI here, and I've read the whole report. I also have several textbooks with me. By self-esteem, I see that the maps do not show the State of Israel, but that the whole area is called Palestine, with Jerusalem as its capital. On page 7 of the report it says that Israel as a sovereign state is not clear or adequately presented in the textbooks, creating confusion when maps are presented with cities that are within the state of Israel while showing maps of Palestine. My question is, can the Council of State take the initiative in creating educational programmes where teachers receive special training in conflict resolution, peacemaking and reconciliation, for use in schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1266	As regards the description of the report and the content of the report, I am concerned to stress that this report is explicit that it is not such that Palestinian textbooks ‘incite against Israel or against peace’, which is the text reflected in the report. It is clear that here you are actually in a situation where there have been significant improvements in the Palestinian learning material. You give credit for both the change in pedagogy and new types of learning methods, and you also give credit for the fact that the Palestinians in the textbooks avoid the use of stereotypes and have some rhetoric against Israel. But it is absolutely right that we should like to see more reconciliation and reconciliation in the learning material. You don't really mention the other party. But I think it's worth mentioning the significant improvements that have happened, as this report shows. With regard to Norwegian initiatives in this context, we are not involved in the provision of educational assistance, and we are not involved with specific initiatives in relation to the training of teachers. We may be in dialogue with the Palestinian authorities on education support, but our support is still for the construction of schools and the financing of school establishments, and not for such special initiatives. [[The President clubs.]] I'm sorry I took too much time, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1275	The President reminds us that time is to be kept!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1278	I thank you for your answer. I am aware that this money does not go specifically to textbooks. But we know that schools in e.g. Ramallah calls himself Norwegian-funded, and that there is contact with the PA Ministry of Education. A young Palestinian woman writes in an e-mail: My vision for the Norwegian nation is to help my people and me, not by giving money to projects that will only improve, but to projects that will change and then improve. The change I would like to make is to change the attitude of the youngest generation of Palestinians, that it should be better than the generations before them to believe in the good will and be free from hatred. Schools and education are a priority, because there is a focus on development. On page 16 of the report it says that peace is too precious to be left alone in the hands of politicians, that teachers are like agents for change, and that they can bring forward debates, etc. in relation to the students. This is particularly the case with the right of the Israelis to a secure and peaceful existence. How will the Council of State use this report in relation to the authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1291	The representative Scarbøvik and I are fully in agreement on the importance of reconciliation, and we have tried to contribute to it in a number of actions. Palestinian and Israeli children have funded participation in joint events as well as in joint education. This, of course, affects the teachers. It is clear that we have had many different initiatives for people to work with to strengthen the possibility of awareness-raising activities and the ability to respect each other and to create peace. Of course, we'll keep doing this. The possibilities to do this are, of course, more difficult now, in the very complicated situation that we find on the ground. But there is no doubt that, on our part, we want to contribute and like to participate in other types of initiatives in this context, but there is no question of going directly into the Ministry of Education and creating further training programmes for teachers. There we must respect the dialogue we must have with the Palestinian authorities and the Ministry of Education. Let me also stress that of course I discussed this with the Minister of Education when I met him on my recent visit to the Palestinian area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1302	The question goes to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘In the ordinary Question Time of the Storting on 25 February 2004, the Council of State asserted that there is technology for the management of CO2 and that ‘There is gas power plant that works today’. The existence of technology is widely known, but the challenge is its high cost. On the other hand, few, if any, researchers and others know that there are full-scale gas power plants with CO2 management today. Can the Council of State provide information on the profitability and experience of the gas power plant to which it refers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1311	The commitment to gas power stations with CO2 management is a key element of the Government's energy policy. Such gas power plants are an important part of the Government’s strategy for a wider and more flexible energy supply. In the Gas Communication, the Government drew up a policy across a broad field to facilitate gas power stations with CO2 management. In addition to the fact that gas power plants with CO2 management will generate significantly lower emissions of greenhouse gases than conventional gas power plants, it is important that Norway works towards the realisation of such gas power plants. Among other things, the Government pays great attention to the possibilities of both storage of CO2 in continental cap reservoirs and the use of CO2 for pressure support in oil extraction. Furthermore, the development of gas power with CO2 management will give Norwegian electricity generation a technological advantage and could provide a basis for other gas-based activities. The activity related to the development of environmentally friendly gas technologies is large both nationally and internationally. There are now several interesting initiatives in Norway related to pilot plants to bring new technologies from the research stage to practical testing. The different technologies for CO2 management vary in degree of maturation. Some technologies depend on significant development work. Other technologies such as: flue gas cleaning is relatively mature technologies. Such technologies are currently being tested in some small gas power plant pilot plants with CO2 handling. Technology has also been used for other purposes. In this way, there are technologies that can work related to a gas power plant today. There are currently no full scale commercial gas power plants with CO2 handling. However, techniques for the separation of CO2 from exhaust gas have been tested on different occasions in different parts of the world, including: in pilot plants. The Japanese power producer Kansai Electric is currently cooperating with the technology supplier Mitsubishi on testing CO2 emissions from gas power generation. The size of the pilot plant is approximately 35 MW. Other actors are also testing the most mature technologies for exhaust gas cleaning. In the past, CO2 management technologies have been tested in the context of older energy technologies, including: in Texas, U.S.A. This type of technology has been used for a long time for the separation of CO2 from other gases in connection with industrial processes. This use of CO2 management technologies is different from what will be the case in energy production. Among other things, the different technology components will be put together in different ways. The most mature technologies for the emission of CO2 from exhaust gas related to energy production have been tested to varying degrees. Among other things, at Statoil’s plant on Kårstø, various tests have been carried out in relation to a small gas turbine of 25 MW. However, the main challenge for all concepts is to further develop technologies so that costs can be reduced to an acceptable level.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1328	I thank the Council of State for the answer. State councils were involved in this with the storage and deposit of CO2. It's done today in the Sleipner field. That's $400 a day. tonnes for purification and DKK 400 per tonne; tonnes for landfill, while the CO2 ratio in Europe and the EU is likely to be between EUR 10 and 20. I am a little surprised that the Government will not have the most cost-effective measures, because this has been emphasised by the Government itself in the climate communication. But here, you have to have some kind of distortion of competition in the matter of producing electricity from the gas power plants as well. So you have to have a technological advantage, and then you have to have the economic disadvantages. Why does the Government not want to build full scale gas power plants with today's technology, with the same emissions and technology requirements in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1339	Norway has set high environmental targets. We take responsibility for the situation we have seen globally, with too much greenhouse gas emissions and with the risk that these could lead to an undesirable warming of the climate, of global temperature, with a risk of adverse effects in this regard. Therefore, it is important for the Government to combine the desire for a safe, stable energy supply, where gas power plants are an important element, with our international commitments regarding the climate situation. We believe that the road will then pass through a gas power plant with CO2 handling. We note to our satisfaction that there is now an international commitment to this, and that Norway is not alone in its ambitions to achieve this. This international commitment will help us find the most cost-effective technology. It is important what the representative of Korsberg pointed out in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1346	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was interesting to note that he refers to what is happening internationally. Then I just want to remind the Council of State that the Swedish are building gas power plants, and they do not understand the Norwegian debate on CO2 management in Norway. They just laugh at us, it's been referred to in the media. The Swedish argument for building gas power plants is precisely environmental. They do not import large quantities of coal power from Denmark and other countries and can also phase out nuclear power plants. They use the construction of gas power stations with today's technology as an environmental argument. But you don't do that in Norway. Is it not time for the Government to take inwards that we will have the same technology and profitability requirements in Norway that they have in the rest of Europe, so that we will not be left out in this area too – that is, that Norwegian authorities can act environmentally friendly?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1355	The fact that the Swedes were going to laugh at us, I'm taking it easy. It says that a good laugh prolongs life. In this way I wish our Swedish colleagues a good and long life. But it also says that the one who laughs last laughs best. In this case, I believe in a commitment to a forward-looking environmental technology that will also provide us with the power supply and use of natural gas that we see here. Still, we do not have the right cost-effective solutions on the table, but we are approaching the goal. Together with our international partners, including: Norway has entered into a very interesting partnership with the United States and the EU – we can reach a situation where Norwegian top technologies that are currently not commercial can produce a forward-looking technology that can also have a commercial value beyond Norway’s borders, i.e. in a global market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1365	I have the following questions: ‘In the ordinary Question Time of the Storting on 25 February 2004, the Council of State states that a support system for conventional gas power plants is likely to be in breach of the EEA Agreement. [[equivalent to wind power]] At the same time, gas power stations in other European countries are known to receive different economic incentives to trigger a development decision. Does the Council of State, irrespective of the subjective position of gas power plants, consider that there is no room for legal measures that can make the development of gas power plants more profitable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1374	The representative of Vaksdal addresses issues related to a comprehensive regulatory framework in the EEA Agreement. As a starting point, the EEA Agreement prohibits States from granting State aid. State aid exists if it can be referred to an economic advantage which an undertaking could not have acquired in the open market and which is not linked to a public order imposed on it. The EEA Agreement also provides a framework for aid schemes which must be said to be in line with the purpose and content of the Agreement. In doing so, ESA has issued a set of guidelines providing information on how the control body interprets and applies the relevant provisions of the EEA Agreement. These guidelines indicate that State aid may be granted for environmental purposes under specific conditions. Therefore, renewable energy aid schemes are in a special position in relation to other types of power generation. In addition, there are rules on aid for R & D and for regional purposes. The legislation I have outlined here is binding on all countries within the EEA territory, but it is not possible for me in an answer to the question-trendment to give a detailed explanation of how energy and environmental policies in other EEA countries are designed in relation to the development of gas power plants. What I can say is that all EEA countries are obliged to follow these guidelines. It has not been relevant for the Government to review the feasibility of supporting the development of conventional gas power stations. As can be seen from St.meld. No 18, On security of supply for electricity, etc., the Government rates as one of a series of measures at gas power plants with CO2 management. The Government will therefore return to Stortinget in the current session with a statement on a support scheme for gas power plants with CO2 management as part of the strategy for increasing the use of natural gas in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1385	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was obvious that he had been better involved in the legislation this time than he had done on 25 February. As I have found out, EU legislation in this area opens up up to 30 pst. without problems. Support of up to 70 pst can be approved. subject to the development and testing of new technologies. Of course, if the Norwegian authorities impose CO2 management on Norwegian gas power plants, they must also cover the costs of these special Norwegian requirements. Can you now expect the Government to take a more offensive view of this and take advantage of the opportunities available?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1396	I do not wish to confirm the relatively unreserved description of aid possibilities within the EEA legislation that the representative, Mr Vaksdal, has now expressed. On the contrary, there are strict rules on how to provide aid for power generation, and there is no doubt whatsoever that such aid must be granted in such a way that it does not discriminate between different types of power generation. So these are strict rules. Whether this is so that we can provide support on the basis of a research assessment has not been examined by the Government – whether our strategy is different. Within the framework of the legislation on environmentally friendly power generation, we want to seek modification on a number of measures. We want to have a long-term commitment to power generation that ensures the supply of both Norway and the Nordic market, while at the same time respecting our international climate obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1403	I thank the Council again for the answer. The costs of building gas power plants must also be seen in relation to the power problem and the need to expand power lines. All planned gas power plants, both concessional and non-concessional, are in areas where they will have a very positive effect in power context, and the Kårstø project is a good example of this. Has the Government assessed these clearly positive socio-economic benefits against, for example, windmill construction in Finnmark, resulting in billions in net investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1412	As the representative of Vaksdal should be well-known as a representative of Rogaland, Natural Power has a concession on a gas power plant on Kårstø. They can build it at any time, they can put the spade in the earth today, if they want to. The feedback I have received from the industry is that it is not profitable today. It is simply so that they can sell one cubic metre of natural gas to Europe for one penny, while they need a price of 40 cents of natural gas in order to provide profitable production in a gas power plant. It is then obvious that there is a large distance between NOK 1 and NOK 0,40, which Industrialkraft Mid-Norway and Naturkraft do not see it possible to bridge over. So it's up to the companies themselves to evaluate this, and the profitability is not in place. Through various measures, we want to facilitate gas power plants with CO2 management, which we believe is the future-oriented and correct solution for Norway to bet on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1420	My question goes to the Minister of Education and Research: ‘Fersh figures from the SSB show that every 5 students do not complete secondary education. This dropout is particularly high among students in vocational training, with as many as one of the three falling out of it. These are very high numbers, and they testify that we are not able to organize 13-year-old education courses for everyone. Too much theory in training and poor advice on the way and on in the course of education may be some of the explanation of the major non-response. Where do the Councils of State think the education system is failing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1429	The representative Lena Jensen raises a very important question. Reform 94 led to an improvement in the implementation of secondary education, in particular in the vocational education and training sectors. Still, it's worrying that only 63 pst. by the students complete in normal time, while over 20 pst. had not completed in five years. We also see systematic differences between the general and professional professions in implementation, and also differences between the different professional courses of study. It is a goal for the Government to qualify pupils and apprentices for further education, professional life and social life. We know that people with no formal competence have a higher risk of falling out of the labour market. Therefore, there is reason to take the drop in secondary education seriously. The causes of non-response are many, and this is reflected in the various measures taken by the Government to prevent non-response to secondary education. With background in Ot.prp. No 67 for 2002-2003 and Innst. O. No 126 for 2002-2003, In the case of greater local freedom of action in initial training, legal amendments from 27 June 2003 allowed county municipalities to accept apprenticeships which provide that all or part of the training may take place on a company basis. This will help to create a better and more flexible training system, especially for those who are tired of theory. The strategy plan for minority speakers presented by the Ministry before Christmas sets out, among other things. up to a pilot project in the advisory and follow-up of minority language students in four counties. Experience shall be disseminated nationally in 2004 and 2005 in response to the increase in the number of teaching places for minority languages in vocational education and training courses adapted to the low school background of young people coming to Norway in secondary and secondary school age. In the context of the Government's poverty report, a broad effort has also been made to combat non-compliance with secondary education. These measures include reinforced training and vocational guidance, i.e. counselling, differentiation and organisation of training, use of alternative training venues and cooperation with the labour market and vocational training. Furthermore, actions relating to the creation of networks between the community and students are at risk of leaving secondary education. The Government has a broad review of both the content and the structure of initial training in the main education. The quality of initial training is a recurring theme of the message, and this is, of course, closely related to the issue of non-response. The notification will alert different actions that can contribute to better adapted training, and thus to a reduction in secondary school drop-outs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1458	I would first of all like to thank you for the answer, where it is clear that the Council of State believes that the question that I am addressing is serious and important. There is an important initiative taken by the Council of State towards the Learning Centre to increase efforts to prevent high school dropouts. I am also aware of these measures to which the Council of State refers. However, I believe that this is a more profound problem, which was also discussed by the Council of State, where both structural changes in the system and changes in secondary education have to be considered. Theoretisation of vocational training has been a major problem. There is no organized training, and there is too little guidance and counselling service. One may also have to look, in my view, at the organisation of the follow-up service. One in five who started in secondary education in 1994, gave up education. The 1997 coal figure shows exactly the same thing. These are serious numbers. My challenge to the Council of State is then: How can you succeed in completing the 13-year-old race? Is there a structural change in our education system? What kind of changes will the Council of State make concrete?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1469	The representative Jensen is raising a number of very important questions here, and I agree with many of the things that are mentioned here as important. But I hope the representative Jensen understands that I cannot break the content of the message that is to be submitted in a very short time, which is about the content and structure of both primary and secondary education. But I still think it's right to say that a core question is related to this with adapted and differentiated training. I see that we have two main problems in Norwegian school when we look at the results page. One is the large systematic differences between students, with a very high proportion of low-skilled students. The second is the issue of non-response that has been addressed in the question today. Both may well be attributed to a lack of appropriate and differentiated training. The representative Jensen and I are well aware of research, among other things. the higher education differentiation project, which illustrates this. I can promise that the message, although I can't break the content, will be very much about improving the quality of training, and that to a large extent it is about better adapting education to the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1478	We know little about where it's going to be of these kids. About 7-8 pst. by the students will be caught by the follow-up service. We know that the average drop out is about 7 pst. Young unemployed are about 7 pst. Young people receiving social assistance are also 7 pst. But we don't know if these are the same people. Analyses carried out by the Learning Centre show that students with poor grades leave higher education. Of those opting for secondary education, the vast majority are in vocational training. There is a clear link between the withdrawal of school and absenteeism in secondary school. Those who chose to leave the school lived less with both parents. Not surprisingly, those who left school had lower educational ambitions than those chosen at school. They've asked students who have opted out of school, what's the subjective justification for their choices. Three indications remain. 64 pst. of the asked students say that they were either school rents, that they did not enter the desired course, or that there were wrong choices. This is a problem which I am pleased that the Council of State will follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1487	There's still a lot of important things to mention that we should definitely study more closely, and that we'll come back to. It's not that the school can even out all the differences or eliminate any apostasy. But what we have to make sure is that everyone has the same and equivalent opportunities to exploit their abilities and talents. In addition, we know that there is a link between not completing secondary education and the risk of falling out of the labour market. Therefore, society may have an interest in more things to do in higher education. We have challenges, linked to both the theory-ridden students and the theory-highest students. In both cases it is a matter of adapting the education/training to the individual. The representative of Jensen is also right in saying that motivation is quite important. I believe that one good reason for doing free schooling in higher education is that students can apply to a greater extent where they want to and can be motivated by the training they start. The likelihood that they will then implement is greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1497	‘In the 2004 budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Workers’ Party, the budget for 2004 was cut sharply. 243 Special Education Competence Centre. The consequences are that school and residential services for hearing-impaired pupils are being met, including: this applies to Bjørkåsen secondary school in Bergen. This and other institutions have been hit by budget cuts for several years, so they are hit again in 2004. What does the Council of State do to ensure that important training skills for this type of student are not further impaired?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1504	The representative of Sortevik refers to cap. 243, Special Education Competence Centre. For 2004, the allocation for the whole chapter has been reduced by 30 million. kr. The change has led to a reduction of 25.5 million in 2004 in the allocation to the State Special Educational Support System, Statped. kr and now lies at 554,5 million. kr. First of all, I would like to make it clear that in 2004 the budget cut will not lead to restrictions on the admission of students at Bjørkåsen secondary school. The amount of funding the Bjørkåsen wants is primarily related to the number of students. There has been an adjustment of the number of employees compared to the number of students and the need for students to meet the challenges needed in school and leisure. As regards the development of Bjørkåsen secondary school in general, I would like to say the following: The Training Act gives young people who have sign languages as first language or who, after expert judgement, need such training, the right to choose training in and in sign language in a sign language environment or the right to choose the use of interpreters in ordinary secondary schools. There are now four secondary schools providing organised training in sign language environments — one state and three county focal schools. Knutepointschool is the name of a county secondary school organised for sign-language students, to which students from all over the country can apply. In addition, the Andebu School of Competence and Skolester provides training for deaf students with severe disabilities, for example: deaf blindness. A catalogue is sent annually to present the school offerings to these schools plus the schools offering organized services for hard-to-heard students. The node schools are the result of, among other things, the wishes of pupils and parents. This has led many deaf students to apply for a place in a more nearby secondary school rather than to go to, for example: Bjorkåsen in Bergen. Thus, the number of pupils at Bjørkåsen has dropped from 62 students in the 1997–98 school year to 24 in the current school year. This year there are 53 sign language students at the three node schools. In addition, nearly 20 deaf students have opted for training using interpreters in ordinary secondary schools. As mentioned above, all students who have applied for a place on the courses offered at Bjørkåsen have been given a place. The decline in the number of pupils at Bjørkåsen has led to a reduction in the need for teachers at school and staff at housing units. Some have been eloquent and canceled. Others have, among others: in order to maintain sign language competence, transferred to other positions of the Western Centre of Competence, of which Bjørkåsen is part. In St.meld. No 14 for 2003–04, On the provision of training for hearing impairment, which is now under consideration in the Committee, the Government proposes to negotiate with the County of Hordaland the transfer of the school offer at Bjørkåsen to a secondary school in Bergen. This school will then be a node school that students from all over the country can apply for. Knutepointschool will be a major secondary school with many courses of study. It will then be easier to find other teaching tasks for teachers if the number of deaf students varies from one year to another. This is how the school can take care of sign language teachers. As a conclusion, the development of Bjørkåsen secondary school is a consequence of more choice for deaf young people in school provision. They would like to apply to centres which have a broad study offer and are closer to their domicile, or apply to ordinary counties of higher education using interpreters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1523	I thank you for your answer. It is true that both at Bjørkåsen and at other schools for hearing - impaired people vary. But it's a dangerous strategy to let the number of educational yearbooks vary short-term according to the number of students. The student group also varies, regardless of the total number of students. At present, Bjørkåsen has many students who are unable to follow a normal curriculum but who must have an individual curriculum because of behavioural problems, different syndromes or general and specific learning difficulties, as well as hearing impairment. Does the Council consider the budgetary framework in recent years for centres of expertise for special education and the allocation of resources to individual schools in this system capture such variations?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1532	As I have explained, there are many natural and positive reasons why students in these special schools are falling. It also applies at primary level. This is because you have been given greater freedom of choice and better offers in other ways. But, of course, I agree with the representative Blackevik that it is important to take care of the skills, because it may be needed elsewhere, even if the students move. It will be ensured in a number of ways, by further developing these centres of excellence as I mentioned, by strengthening their external activities, such as guidance, counselling, etc., and by continuing to provide relevant education services at universities and colleges. There is a limited number of teachers with audio-pedagogical competence, and therefore teachers will be attractive to municipalities and county councils with hearing-impaired students, as I consider it. I see, of course, the positive thing in that the municipalities and county councils have so systematically built up and continue to build up their competence here. It's important to think that primary school is a municipal responsibility, that high school is a county responsibility, and that we want an inclusive school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1541	One of the special things about Bjørkåsen high school is that it's the only school where teaching is given by sign language teachers to hearing-impaired students from all over the country. I did not intentionally bring St.meld. No 14 for 2003–04. The Council of State itself did. It is a matter for consideration in the Committee. But the background for asking this question is the resource situation today. Thus, there is a concern about today's resource situation, in anxiety and fear that today's competence will be reduced over several years. It is true that budget cuts in 2004 came to the top of a previous 16 pedagogical decline. Statped's messages to that school are now that they are required to cut further, so that you can reach over 30 pst. two-year cut, which is not entirely in line with the student mass challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1548	I have to repeat, and clarify, that in 2004 the budget cut has not led to and will not lead to restrictions on the admission of students at Bjørkåsen, that the development of which is primarily the result of student development, because students are given other opportunities, other offers and greater freedom of choice, and that all students who have applied for admission to the course offer at Bjørkåsen have actually been given room. I believe that it is not possible to draw that connection line, and you also have to remember that there are a lot of positive reasons why students can now choose other offers than those they have traditionally had. This is due to technological developments, but it is also due to the skills and offers built up in the ordinary school. Many of these developments have taken place in consultation with and in cooperation with those concerned, both children and parents, so that developments are best suited to their own needs and desires.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1558	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘According to the nations, SND has lost L.B. in the last two years. kr on loans. In view of this, will the Council of State now demand other credit practices in Innovation Norway and will it take the initiative to prevent business owners from making profits in the companies if the loan obligations are not met?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1567	SND has suffered greater losses in all its lending arrangements in the last two years than in the past. The risk loans in question are mainly raised in the years after 1992 and the low-risk loans after 1982. The tapes include: the relationship with the economic cycle of the Norwegian economy and is due in particular to the losses in the fishing industry. In the new phase of the 2003 budget, a commitment was made to cover the identified and future losses on the risk loan schemes and to strengthen equity associated with the low-risk scheme. Strengthening is a first step towards building up the loss funds and equity in Innovation Norway over a four-year period. In view of the loss situation, the Ministry of Industry and Trade set up a working group consisting of representatives from the departments concerned in autumn 2003 to review the SND loan arrangements and lending procedures. A result of this review is a proposal for a new Innovation Risk Loan Scheme in Norway that can contribute to better risk management in the future. In connection with the establishment of Innovation Norway from 1 January 2004, a due diligence by SND was carried out at the same time. Innovation Norway has further examined the procedures for loans and grants and recently established a general credit policy for 2004. This implies a tightening compared to the previous one. The new loan and grant policy is one of several measures taken to reduce risk exposure. The other measures take place, inter alia: against the lifting of competences, risk management and follow-up of default and loss. With regard to the possibility for business owners to make dividends in the companies if the loan obligations are not met, Innovation Norway acts as an ordinary creditor within the provisions of the Share Act on the distribution of dividends. These provisions include, inter alia: that in no case can dividends be distributed in excess of what is available in a prudent and sound manner. Losses incurred at the balance sheet date or expected to occur shall be taken into account. Thus, companies that are unable to meet their loan obligations should not be able to pay dividends on a general basis either. All loans Innovation Norway establishes, has a set of standard terms. In specific and individual cases, other types of special conditions are also agreed which may include both comprehensive reporting obligations and limitations, including limitations on the possibility to decide on the distribution of dividends. It is not considered appropriate to ask Innovation Norway on a general basis to limit the possibility of dividend distribution in the companies to which Innovation Norway has established loan relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1580	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think was an informative response, as the Council of State now explained that a number of measures have been put in place to improve the situation of state loans, and that Innovation Norway will now be equipped with a number of instruments to prevent losses in the current year and in the future. However, I still believe – and the Council of State knows very well – that the appropriations for Innovation Norway, formerly the SND, are well in place. There is an increased risk that the large losses will affect us in terms of future appropriations for Innovation Norway. But I will still ask the Council of State the following questions: Does the Council of State think that there should be a stronger signal to Innovation Norway than he has now expressed, if a company owner does not comply with its loan obligations, but nevertheless makes dividends? Will there be an early warning system or a warning system in Innovation Norway to deal with these things at an earlier time than clearly has been done?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1587	I can't quite see any evidence that there should have been any misappropriation of dividends in companies where there is a default of loans. Nor does the article in the nations to which reference is made make this clear. As I explained, if you default on a loan, it's presumptuous because you can't pay. In that case, the Share Act and the general rules for auditing indicate that there is no option for dividends to be paid. Otherwise, I would say that these loans are old, that's actually up to 20 years old loan exposure, and that it's especially in the fishing industry, where this has been happening, has been tough in the last two years. I have not been presented with any individual items that would indicate that there is a need for special early warning systems in addition to what we have in terms of taking dividends from companies that have loans from Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1596	I just want to give a comment to the last state council said. Of course, there is no basis here and now for discussing individual companies, but I think a more precise review of the loan portfolio for some companies might give some surprises. I want to challenge the government council on the following: I think it bears witness to bad business practices not to repay state loans at the same time as dividends are collected, although there are rules for this. I would like to ask the Council of State: does he share the view that this is bad business?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1605	Both on a general basis and with experience from business, I have to say that at the moment when you have a loan default and it is clear from the accounts that you pay dividends at the same time, in the same accounts, it is in my opinion a mismatch that does not deserve a stamp from either Per or Pål. On the basis of what the representative addresses, it is natural for me to take a round with the SND to get a review of this. And it is clear that at the moment it can be documented, it will therefore not comply with the rules that apply both in the Share Act and in relation to good accounting practice, as I said in my first answer. So I will take that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1623	This question has been withdrawn. So we go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1632	This question, from the representative of Gjermund Hagesetter to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Transport, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1635	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘From 1 March of this year, 6 pst was introduced as known by the State. VAT on domestic voyages at the same time as transport companies were to receive reimbursement for their input VAT. According to the Ministry of Finance, this would lead to cheaper tickets for travellers. Media look-up, however, suggests that travellers can look at lower fares for the time being. Will the Council of State take initiatives and ensure that the intentions of lower fares are followed up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1644	The purpose of including passenger transport in the VAT system is to reduce the costs of collective societies so that the collective offer can be better and more competitive. This can be done through lower tariffs or by improving the offer in the form of multiple departures, multiple routes, etc. The 2004 budget proposal presented a calculation showing the estimate of the tariffs for the inclusion of collective societies in the VAT system, if the full benefit is taken in the form of lower rates. The calculations show the greatest price drop for local public transport and rail, and minor changes for the other modes of transport. As mentioned above, there are also other ways of improving collective provision than through tariffs. As expected, VAT reform has been different for different modes of transport and for different parts of the market. With regard to local public transport, for which the municipalities and the Municipality of Oslo are responsible, the Government, through the VAT reform, has provided the county councils with solid help in raising the level of public transport, either through lower tariffs or through a better offer. The county authorities have also followed this up on the way. Four counties have chosen to reduce real prices and at the same time improve their supply. Most countries — nine in total — have opted to reduce real prices without changing the offer. One county improves the offer, but at the same time increases the prices. The remaining three counties plus Oslo increase prices in line with or more than the price increase, without improving the offer. This is due to a decrease in ticket revenue in some counties, but some counties have also chosen to reduce subsidies to public corporations and use the gain to strengthen other parts of their business. In the form of a letter, I strongly encouraged the county councils and the municipality of Oslo to make the value added tax gain benefit the travellers. However, it is up to the individual county council, as purchaser of local public transport services, to ensure that this is actually done. I cannot instruct the county councils in how to dispose of their revenues or how to distribute cost reductions in the purchase of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1655	I would like to thank you for the reply that a letter has been sent, and that the Council of State would also like to press for prices to be lower. When the government budget was presented, it was pointed out that this would lead to lower prices or lower prices. When the state budget was treated, consider that one would have a price increase of 1.8 pst. for this financial year. Now the consumer price index shows that we no longer have a price rise in Norway. We have a deflator of 1.7 pst. in the consumer price index, and we also have a nuclear inflation that is negative of 0.1 pst. This should also lead to a greater basis for lowering the prices of transport operators. I want to ask the Council of State if it doesn't agree with that reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1662	I agree with that reasoning. And what we put up in the budget gave the companies and county councils the opportunity to take out the benefits that I gave in my previous answer, either lower prices or better offers. I also realize that it may take some time before the companies notice that the VAT reform will turn out in relation to the economy of the company, but I do not believe that this should prevent what we have been pressured on, and I still want to press for, that the travellers should benefit from the reform in the form of lower rates or better offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1667	I would once again like to thank the Minister of Transport for taking this very seriously. I would also like to refer to the Torbjørn Hansen from Right stated in the Official Journal of Bergen on 4 March of this year, where he proposes that if the VAT reform is not followed up by the various transport companies, a response should be given. And then he was about to increase the competition in the transport industry could be a measure to push prices down. My question is whether the Council of State agrees that the suspension of competition can be a measure, and whether it will possibly take the initiative if it turns out that prices do not fall so much, or the supply does not get so much better than this VAT reform would provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1676	It is up to the county to decide whether the local public transport is to be put out to tender or put out for competition. While this possibility has existed in the past, VAT reform offers of course a unique opportunity to go through the existing agreements and contracts and assess these types of measures. So the opportunity lies there, and it could be a good measure to ensure that the travellers just get this prize.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1681	We go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1687	Question 19, from the representative May Britt Vihovde to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Harald Hove.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1690	I have the honour to ask questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘In the context of the introduction of the AutoPASS system in Bergen and Tønsberg, the Data Protection Authority has called for a satisfactory solution in order to ensure the possibility of anonymous passage of the toll stations. The scheme that has been introduced has had poor availability and is far more expensive than the discount schemes linked to normal subscriptions. Will the Council of State take an initiative to ensure that the system of anonymous passage is as equivalent as possible to normal subscription?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1699	The question of anonymous passage is an important question. The Data Protection Authority has required that it must be possible to pass with anonymity, as would be the case for manual payment in other toll projects. Payment on arrears, as is possible, does not give anonymity. On this basis, an anonymous AutoPASS account scheme has been established, i.e. anonymous piece. The users complained that the anonymous piece was not well known, and that it was too poorly accessible. Therefore, the availability of the road user for the creation of an anonymous AutoPASS account is now extended to the same level as for the establishment of an ordinary AutoPASS agreement, according to the Swedish Road Administration. In practice, this applies to the operator and selected dealers inside and outside the Tønsberg and Bergen bombings. The Road Directorate is now awaiting a report on the implementation and functioning of this scheme. The Data Protection Authority has also addressed the issue of discounts, and has considered that the anonymous piece should provide for a discount such as in the case of ordinary pieces. The Directorate of Roads has argued against this, stating that the anonymous piece is parallel to manual payment in other projects where no discount is given. I am aware that the Road Directorate is awaiting a letter from the Data Protection Authority on this matter. I am concerned that anonymous passage should be a real option in AutoPASS. The Ministry of Transport will follow up on the State Road Administration if it turns out that the system of anonymous pieces is not working well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1710	I would first like to thank you for your answer. I could have given a rather direct description of how difficult it was to obtain such an anonymous piece in connection with the introduction of the scheme in Bergen. No information was given in advance about the piece and the existence of this scheme. It was only after the Data Protection Authority and the press made some publicity about it, that it was at all informed about the scheme, and that such a piece was available. That's the difference between the AutoPASS system and the cash payment you had in the past, that you now pay in advance in line with other users, and that you pay in the account. Would it not be natural to give anonymous use, as far as possible, the same opportunity for discounts as other uses?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1717	The AutoPASS system has been developed based on a link between the tag identity and the registration number of the vehicle. The check may be carried out by reference in the vehicle register, where a registration number is used to find the owner of the vehicle. An anonymous electronic solution in automatic toll stations increases the possibility of abuse when moving the piece between vehicles. Discount schemes are not initially requested by the Road Administration of the State, as this will increase the interest in a regime that makes control difficult. In addition, the anonymous solution does not allow participation in the AutoPASS Coordinate Payment. As mentioned, there have been complaints that the anonymous piece has been too little available, and we want to do something about that. I want it to be clear that this possibility exists and where it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1722	As the Council of State initially said, this is an important issue, and it is an important data protection issue. For the Left, which both I and the Council of State represent, this with privacy has been important to follow up. It is clear that this question is about the opportunity to move anonymously. I know that there may be some differences in discounts and in systems that are justified by the fact that there may be differences on the technical side or differences in what one actually gives of credit as a private individual to the toll companies. But I have to ask quite precisely: does the Council of State think that a possible lesser abuse should stand in the way of getting almost as good discount schemes, when the situation today is that it is more than 50 pst. more expensive to choose an anonymous piece than another piece?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1729	I basically believe that the differences in the prices of the anonymous solution and the non-anonymous solution should be based on costs. If there are different costs associated with the different systems, the solutions have to reflect them. I think it should also be taken into account that the system can be cheated. But I would like to challenge the State Road Service that there should be as similar solutions as possible, without my guarantee that the discount schemes will be exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1745	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1751	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «In the newspaper Dagbladet 19 February d.o.b. it states that the Ministry considers taking from the municipalities the operation of municipal property. Does the Council of State mean that such a signal is consistent with the objective of greater local freedom of action and strengthened local democracy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1760	The answer could simply have been: No, it does not correspond to that, and therefore no such signal has been given. We have reduced a public body that looks at municipal property management. The background for this, I think the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa also knows well. The state of the public building stock has been in the spotlight in several independent reports over the last few years. There have also been questions about this in Stortinget. Many believe that buildings such as: schools, churches and cultural houses fall due. There was a background for the government to set up a separate sample to review the municipal property management in autumn 2003. The committee was asked to propose the necessary improvement measures if structural weaknesses were identified at the time of the review. The selection should look at the framework for property management and how municipalities exploit the possibilities offered by the framework conditions. The survey in the newspaper on 19 February refers to this sample work. Here it is erroneously claimed that the department considers that it is depriving the municipalities of the operation of municipal property. Such a measure is not at the discretion of the Ministry, nor is it to be assessed in this sample. I have tried to get Dagbladet to correct the claim that was wrongly made on 19 February, so far without making them admit that they have made a mistake. At the same time, I have to say that it should be sufficient to look at the mandate of the committee in order to establish that it is not appropriate to take the properties from the municipalities. The selection has just been asked to propose measures to improve the municipal property management, with clarification of ‘municipalities’. I want to go so far as to say that it would be pointless to exempt the municipalities from liability for the properties on which they depend to operate kindergartens, schools and health services, as there is a strong link between the services and the premises in which the services are provided. What I, the Minister of Local Councillor and the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, should be concerned about is that the municipalities take the highest possible responsibility for the properties. Not all municipalities have been good enough here. The ability of municipalities to make better use of resources, both through better organisation of services and through cooperation with private individuals, should be known as my position also from past issues related to municipal organisation. In respect of local self-government, I will leave to the local government itself to choose the organisation of the municipality's property management. However, the public sample will help to demonstrate their opportunities, and therefore also has a broad community representation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1769	I have not registered that the council has gone back on what she was quoted in the newspaper, so I thought it was good to give her the opportunity today to cancel what is there. It's done with it. I am also pleased that the Council of State says that it is pointless here to sort between municipal ownership and municipal operation. But there is something else that is also completely meaningless, and there is a lack of focus on the consistency between the tasks that the municipalities have and the means that they have at their disposal. When the Council of State now sees the search light on a decay of as great a magnitude as what we have here, is it so that the municipalities can actually expect it to also set up a stepping-up plan that allows us to correct the ever-increasing imbalance in the economy of the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1778	Let me say that the follow-up question was not unexpected. I also want to correct the representative Meltveit Kleppa, because I am not quoted anything in that article in the newspaper. It is a tabloid mention of the mandate and the reduction of a public sample, personified with an image of me and what I should have done. However, I have neither been presented nor asked by Dagbladet about their interpretation of what is in the mandate is correct. It has been pointed out by our department, at the State Secretary level, that this is totally wrong, and that they should correct it. What they have done is incorrect even if you are able to read the mandate. So I can't ask you to correct things that I'm not quoted on, to put it like this. This is the newspaper's version of what they think is in the mandate of this sample, and it is totally wrong. Now we have a searchlight on the lack of consistency between the economy and tasks in the municipal sector all the time. The size has, among other things, asked to get a case to the Stortinget with a review of the school building situation. This sample has one of the jobs to chart the situation. But I want to stress that there are also major differences between municipalities in this area. Some municipalities have chosen to balance the budget by not having maintenance, and others have managed, even within a tight framework, to organise themselves for good maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1789	The status now is that despite the addition of 6 billion kroner to the municipal sector in 2004, municipalities had increased pension costs by more than 4 billion kroner and the lack of tax revenue by 3.4 billion kroner. All municipalities can then be expected to receive a total of a smaller amount at their disposal in 2004 than in 2003. The SSB's figures show 13 billion dollars in losses last year and a debt of over 100 billion dollars. I agree with the Council of State that there are different situations in the individual municipalities, but I would also like to remind you that there are actually reports from several states that show an alarming situation with regard to the maintenance of construction, cf. KS Nord-Trundelag, there's only a billion in that county. Then I ask again: does the Council of State really think that consistency between tasks and means does not matter here, and will it still keep the search light away from the fact that there is actually a need for money to maintain municipal buildings as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1798	There has never been any question as to whether I do not agree that there is a lack of consistency between tasks and the economy in the local government sector. I've repeatedly stressed that it actually is. It is a aftermath, especially from the period in which Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa was a member of a government that did not give rise to free income for the municipal sector at all. But the maintenance system has been much longer, the maintenance system is a story from both the 1980s and 1990s. Several municipalities have spent more money on maintenance in recent years than we did in both the 1980s and 1990s. In particular, the Municipality of Oslo, which, in addition to what they receive in state transfers related to the school package, spends much more money on rehabilitation, among other things. school constructions, other than those done earlier. The new City Council in Bergen has also given priority, in line with the 2001 agreement, when the right had an influence on the priorities of that city when it was a municipal economy. I would like to stress that it is not a discussion as to whether we do not believe that there is a lack of conformity, but the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa now also exaggerates the non-conformity significantly. We agree in our consultations with KS that there is a lack of consistency here, and the delay is about NOK 5.5 billion. I thought the assumption was that the consultations we had with the local government sector would form the basis for an agreement on what was delayed. KS and we agree, and neither should the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa use other figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1809	My question goes to the Minister of Defence: ‘Military equipment is stored more often and more frequently outdoors in all kinds of weather or in purchased/rented plastic halls, because the defence's own rental prices make it too expensive to use for each department. Does the Council of State see that this must be a wrong development, as we have invested in good stocks for many years, but which unfortunately are too expensive to use with the rental prices that the Defence has?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1818	In the conversion of the defence, an important part of the cost reduction on the operating side shall be through the de-allocation of areas and the de-allocation, disposal and sale of surplus material. Therefore, the Stortinget has decided that 2 million m2 of building mass should be released and then disposed of. In order to achieve the Storting Conversion Goal, it is absolutely necessary to speed up the pace of freeing up the building mass. If the defence succeeds in increasing the relief of superfluous building mass, it is necessary to some extent to store some military material temporarily outdoors or in mobile plastic halls. I would like to stress that, of course, this material should not include the categories of sensitive military material. Material stored in such temporary solutions is mainly material that has been decided upon and discarded. It may also be that some materials that are robust can be stored problem-free outdoors for shorter periods. It will also occur that the Defence Emergency and Training Equipment will be temporarily stored outdoors, e.g. for the preparation of major exercises, training or configuration of military units to be sent to international service missions. Therefore, there is not necessarily a link between temporary or outdoor storage and the introduction of cost-covering rent in the Defence. I think it may be implicit in the question from the representative Per Roar Bredvold that the rental costs in the defence have increased as a result of the introduction of cost-covering rentals through a new management model for the property, construction and civil engineering service. Therefore, I would like to remind you that the Stortinget in the treatment of budget revenue. S. No 7 for 2002-2003, based on St.prp. No 1 and St. Prp. No 1 Appendix No 6 for 2002–03 was informed of, and did not have any comments that, from 2003, full cost-covering rentals were introduced in the Defence. A unanimous committee also said in Innst. S. No 266 for 2000-2001 on the basis of a Document No. Eight proposals from, among others, the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. The representative of Bredvold that the State should be based on the principle of cost-effective rentals and that the Committee was aware that this was now also assessed in the Defence. Cost-covering rent is one of the main incentives for the user to free up land that is no longer required from a critical assessment. The defence must, as a consequence of the Storting decision, look more critically at the number of square metres of building mass it disposes of. On this basis, it is my opinion that the rental scheme and the new management model work on the basis of the assumptions underlying the model. On the other hand, in exceptional cases, in the event of any disagreement between the Military Organisation of the Defence Agency and the Defence Building on the rental of certain buildings, this should normally be able to find its solution in the ongoing dialogue between the head of defence building and the head of defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1840	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a complementary and, to this extent, a good answer. But what I want with this question is to put the search light on whether maybe the defense has too high rental prices, and on why you have it. On my travels both as a committee member and as an individual member of the defence committee, I have visited quite a number of places and military installations lately. Some buildings are empty, and the equipment is out because you can't afford to store it inside, so the rent is too high. What we also see is that others are creative. They rent plastic halls, as I mentioned in my question, or they rent premises in the private market. Then the question is, why has the defense so high rental prices? Is the cost of defence construction by owning and operating so much higher than for private people? I think that's nice. How does the defense do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1851	Cost-covering rental means not only covering current operating costs but also costs of maintenance and consumption of fixed capital that are on a mass of buildings. It is a principle that the Storting itself has decided to make use of for the Defence, and that the Defense must comply with. In the case of leased-in plastic halls and other temporary solutions, Defence Buildings have stated that experience has shown that the costs of such plastic halls and such temporary solutions are in fact higher than the rental price charged by the Defence in their facilities. So I'm going to add that a main goal of pricing is that it's going to cost more for the defense units to seize unreasonablely large areas, because we're simply relying on selling 2 million m2 of building mass to finance other and more priority investments in a new and modern defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1860	We do not disagree that the defence should get rid of a lot of property, 2 million m2, nor do I disagree that the defence should get rid of equipment. But when the rental price gets so high that the defense itself cannot afford to rent their own premises, there must be something wrong. I think that the private, in line with the military, have their expenses, so I come back to the fact that the private run cheaper than the state – and in this case the defense – and there must be something wrong in it. Otherwise, there have been some creative solutions on how to store military equipment. I've been looking at that instead of storing on one floor, i.e. at one height, you've figured out that it's possible to store at two heights in the same room. But even if you're creative, you've got rents for two floors even if it's in the same room. Then it is not useful to be creative and find opportunities to save money, and after what I experience, it creates some frustration around.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1867	If there were any private actors who, for various reasons, want to take lower rent than what is needed to cover the costs of the maintenance of buildings, there would be an indirect subsidisation of the defence against which we will not, of course, protest. But the defense's lease fixing is based on the tenant paying for maintenance of the buildings as well. In addition, as I said, we want a more critical review of whether you actually need all the buildings that have been seized in the past in the individual unit. However, I will not rule out, as the representative Bredvold had in mind, that there may be individual cases in individual areas where it can be seen to be an unreasonable rent required. Then it's important, as I was in my first answer, that the military departments play such matters up to their chief chief, the chief of defense, and that in his general dialogue with Defence Building, he seeks to find a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1877	I have a question for the Minister of Defence: ‘In Avisa Nordland, it appears that the Department has provided evidence that the calculation of savings requires the use of figures that do not correspond to actual conditions. In the case in question, the transfer of air protection from Bodø to Ørland was concerned, where Bodø may lose 70 jobs. How does the Council of State view this matter, and what is the direction of the Ministry in relation to the underlying agencies in terms of savings calculations and so on? in relation to planned measures?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1886	The Chief of Defense's military professional investigation was handed over to me on December 8th last year and constitutes the professional military contribution to the future long-term defence plan. The government's aim is to present the proposition to the Storting in this month. I therefore do not think it appropriate to address the issue of localisation in individual cases at this stage, as long as the long-term plan has not yet been presented to the Stortinget. My political leadership of the Defence Chief's military professional investigation was given in October 2002. The purpose of these leaderships was, first, to direct the development of the defence through the most precise overall objectives of the defence, second, to clarify political expectations of the defence's activities in key areas, thirdly, to ensure that the necessary action was outlined and that the consequences of them were highlighted, and fourthly, to provide the defence chief with back cover for the political preconditions on which his professional-military assessments should be based. On the other hand, with regard to the financial assumptions – as stated by the representative Bastisen – for the assessment of the profitability of the different business location options, the Ministry has provided only general methodological guidance, to ensure consistency in the basis of accession and comparable figures for different site options set up against each other. These guidelines apply, of course, to all economic calculations and not specifically to air protection in Bodø. It is therefore not correct that the Ministry of Defence has made special reference to the use of the numerical material in the relevant investigation referred to by the representative. There will always be discussions on the number material behind different decision-making options. Therefore, as in the previous long-term plan in 2001, external consultant assistance has been used for precisely the economic calculations to ensure the quality of the methodology and the numerical basis. Finally, I would like to emphasise that all assessments of organisational changes will be carried out in a total economic perspective. In such a perspective, both the division of roles between different bases in the Air Force and the collection of different functions at home, in order to focus the professional environment on fewer areas and to make different specialisations at the different bases and locations. This means that not only the crowns and the ear aspect of these general calculation models are included. Operational conditions, quality, flexibility and availability will also be included in the assessments when a location option is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1901	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is a reorganisation and a change in defence across Norway. Is it so that basic numbers are added that don't match reality, as in Bodø?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1908	There is a need to distinguish between cost figures for each year, for example, and the present value calculation between two comparable alternatives. A present value calculation ensures that two localisation options are assessed on the basis of the same criteria. This means, for example: not that it is the last financial year to be taken into account. The most important thing here is comparable criteria. With regard to the reorganisation that is taking place throughout the defence, on which the representative Bastesen is involved, I would remind you that one of the most difficult measures here is the dismantling of 5,000 men, as the Stortinget has decided. Since the representative Bastesen in this case takes up Bodø, I would say that Bodø is one of the locations that have reason to rejoice, because most of the activity in Bodø remains there with the defense chief's proposal, despite the fact that the other defense has to deflect with almost 25 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1917	Once again, I thank the Minister of Defence for the answer. We're going to jump a little bit further north. Moving the coastal hunters from Harstad to Tromsø has been proposed by the Ministry of Defence. The argument that the Ministry of Defence uses is that it's cheaper. Where is the calculation that can verify that this is true, and is all of the factors involved in that calculation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1924	The Ministry of Defence's proposal has not yet been submitted to the King of the Council of State, and the Ministry of Defence has no proposal, nor is it linked to the coastal hunters. But what I can say is that when the Ministry of Defence assesses which location options are the best, a number of issues are highlighted. One thing is the cost of building: what do you need from new building mass, and what investment is required if you choose one or the other option? Equally important is who a unit must operate with: if you are to operate with allies, you must operate with others in the Defense – what is the most appropriate location option? The conclusion of the choices the Ministry of Defence has made comes when we promote the proposition later this month. So it's not just a dollar and ear aspect that are taken into account when we make choices, but it's also these operational needs and, in part, what the trade unions themselves want.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1942	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 25 has already been answered. That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-10.ana.ud665e1957	There is no record.
