ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e30	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e35	I suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e40	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e45	On behalf of Lodve Solholm and myself, I would like to propose the creation of a new nationwide seed fund to facilitate the financing of new knowledge companies during the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e50	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e53	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Per Sandberg and myself, I would like to propose an action plan for the construction of gas power plants in Norway with the same CO2 management requirements as in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e58	The representative Knut Storberget will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e62	On behalf of the representatives Anne Helen Rui, Gunn Karin Gjul and myself, I would like to propose changes to the rules and measures to reduce the time of criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e67	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e91	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik State Council Torild Skogsholm The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e107	I have a question for the Prime Minister. One of the greatest injustices in today's pension system is that many hundreds of thousands of workers do not have occupational pensions. They only have the right to a national pension and therefore have a lower pension than the majority of Norwegian pensioners. The working party has therefore long supported the requirement to introduce occupational pensions for all. We therefore strongly disagreed with Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss, who said earlier this year that it was not appropriate for the Government to contribute to occupational retirement provision for all employees in the annual salary settlement. I am pleased that the government now seems to have turned around, and that there are now signs that the government is still set to contribute. The Workers' Party believes that the proposals of the Pension Commission should initially be dealt with as comprehensively as possible, but we are willing to make an exemption for occupational retirement provision, so that we can clarify this important issue as quickly as possible. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: If the Government still decides to recommend statutory occupational pension for all, when can the Government be ready to promote concrete legislative proposals for the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e120	It is clear from the Pension Commission’s position that representatives of a large majority of the political parties want a pension scheme in working conditions for those who do not currently have it. That's a point of view that is also shared by the three government parties, and therefore the government. Last night I received a letter from the parties in the payroll, the Joint Association and the TBL, about this. They will receive an answer from me this afternoon or tonight. It would be wrong for me to say what I want to say in this letter to the parties who have addressed myself, but I can express the general view that the Government is in favour of an income policy cooperation. We are positive to find a scheme for those who do not currently have a pension in their employment. But going more into the time and other questions raised in this letter from the parties to the payroll would be wrong for me to do at this point. We will reply to the parties in a letter this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e127	What was the problem was that the Minister of Finance was strongly opposed to going further with the law of occupational retirement provision for all, and that the Right has also opposed it in the Pension Commission. That there now seems to be a broader consensus, not least after the Joint Association and the LO have made the demands in the wage settlement, I am very pleased. What the government has announced is a big deal about retirement. That's good, but there's no invitation to the Stortinget to take concrete law decisions. Therefore, it can easily be many years before occupational retirement provision actually comes into effect, if you are to wait for the treatment of a disability report and then a bill. What the Workers' Party is now signaling is that we are prepared to deal with legislative proposals, concrete decisions, as quickly as possible during this process, so that we can put in place a system to correct this unfair injustice. I accept that the Prime Minister will wait to answer, as long as the answer tonight is positive, namely that we say yes to statutory occupational pension during this period!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e136	Firstly, I'm a little surprised that a former Prime Minister is so deeply involved in issues that are now dealt with in a wage settlement during the mediation phase. There I had expected that Stoltenberg, out of respect for the process, had shown greater restraint. Secondly, there is a slight paradoxical attitude that the Workers' Party will have better time to work on the major pension issues, but on this point, where one has not finished the case in the Pension Commission, the Workers' Party has a much greater urgency. That's a little weird attitude. What has not been properly investigated has a hurry and is ready to pass a law on very soon; what has been investigated, the Workers' Party will have more time than the Government has put up with. But I'll ignore that. The Government shall deal with this matter in substance. We have to answer the letter that we received from the parties. There's a point that if this had been priced, it would only have been valid for approx. 100000 of the many who today do not have such a scheme. It is therefore not a good solution, and that is what the Minister of Finance has been primarily concerned about here. He is not strongly opposed to our contributing, as Stoltenberg makes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e153	There will be follow-up questions – Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e156	The question of pensions involves people all over the country, and it also plays a significant role in this room. Since its establishment, public health has been the main safety net in the Norwegian welfare community. The big pension obligations challenge popular security as a system, and we clearly record that it makes people uncertain. Our main welfare challenge is to secure pensions. How can the Prime Minister defend that in such a situation, the Government adds to new, large tax reliefs, which then weaken the future income of the State, thereby weakening the future ability of the State to finance good pension schemes in the social security system?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e165	I agree that securing pensions for the future is our main welfare challenge. The background of the Pension Commission, which was also established by the Labour Party Government in which Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was a member, is that today's system is no longer economically sustainable. It has to change. There may be some unpleasant changes too, but there has to be accumulation and government enough adults to make, just to secure pensions for the future. I do not agree with what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen says about what the Government has announced about taxes, will weaken our work for pensions and welfare in the future. On the contrary, our tax proposals aim to increase the value creation of business, create a fairer system and eliminate the huge difference between those who have large capital incomes and those who have similar incomes — that is the great injustice of today's tax system. In my view, such a system, which is fairer and more business-friendly, will increase performance and improve the welfare base of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e173	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e176	I would like to return to the main question from the representative Stoltenberg. The confusion that has arisen at the present time, related to the possible legalisation of occupational pension schemes, is largely due to the Government itself, because the Minister of Finance was previously out of office and stated that this was not the government's policy, but then we got a performance in the media yesterday where we could get a completely different impression. The Pension Commission aims to introduce the new pension reform, which will be in force for many, many years to come, from approx. 2010; My question to the Prime Minister, to which it should actually be answered, is: Are you willing to take out a small part of the major pension reform to deal with it now, and not see it in the overall context, as it has been suggested in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e185	We are willing to initiate a process on the question of retirement in employment for those who do not have it today. But if one reads the Pension Commission report, one will see that that's just the question that's least investigated, and there's no majority for any model. Then it's a little paradoxical if Nesvik also has the attitude that what's the worst done, and where it's not a majority in the Commission, we can deal with it the fastest, while what's investigated, and where it's a broad majority, it has to wait a lot longer. Of course, the government wants to clarify this as soon as possible, but in fact a certain investigation work is still required to get this done, among other things. because the Commission did not agree and was not able to find out. It was this one point the Commission was unable to gather about, unfortunately. But we're going to further elaborate on this tonight in our correspondence with the payroll partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e194	Sigbjørn Molvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e197	There are major irregularities in the pension system, including in the proposal made by the majority of the Pension Commission. I now understand that it is somewhat unclear what the Government will land on in terms of statutory occupational pension. If the Government does not want to contribute to such a statutory occupational pension, what other measures does the Prime Minister see separately in the pension schemes that can contribute to much greater justice in the case of pensions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e204	We have said that we want to contribute in terms of pensions in employment for those who do not have it today. That's about. 900,000 people who don't have it. Among them, there are some self-employed people, and there are also some students and schoolchildren who have less part-time jobs. What we're primarily concerned about is employees who don't have it. If this is only to be fixed, it will include approx. 100000 of these. So there's going to be a bunch of workers that will fall out of the way. Personally, therefore, I am more concerned with schemes that will embrace all employees in working conditions that do not currently have such a scheme. This requires some further investigation work. It can only read the Pension Commission's report to find out. But the government is positive that we're going to find arrangements for these.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e209	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e212	I have a certain understanding that the Prime Minister does not think it is easy to deal with a question that is so complicated, and also with the certainty in the back of the mind that this can have an impact not only on wage fixing, but also on the whole further treatment of the pension reform. The Prime Minister pointed out that there are currently 900000 persons not covered by occupational retirement provision. Of them, it's approx. 450 000 who will also not be subject to a statutory occupational pension. This applies to maritime operators, sole proprietorships, part-time employees, primary industries, etc. How does the Government assess the situation of that group of people? How does one consider securing future pension options for that population group?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e219	There are just such questions that the representative Arnstad mentions, which show that this is a little more complicated than the Labour Party and the Advance Party clearly express. It is this that requires further work on this matter; it is not just immediately to promote a bill, but to do more work on it. I am concerned that one has to find arrangements for the groups that the representative Arnstad mentioned here, which also provide them with security for their pension. Modernised popular fear is aimed at guaranteeing everyone a disability pension that will provide security at the bottom. Then it is desirable that you have pensions in addition to that in the form of supplementary pensions, which will increase as time in work increases – and that you can have pensions in employment. That some people at the top of it again have their private pensions, are up to the individual. That's how this should be built up. It will also ensure the groups mentioned by Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e226	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e229	I also have a question for the Prime Minister, but with a different theme. The Norwegian economy is now in a darker state of development. Growth in gross domestic product is very low, lower than foreseen both in the long-term programme and in the 2004 government budget. When the government presented its budget for 2004, it was optimistic about attacking unemployment and, hopefully, reducing unemployment. Now numbers show that by the end of February this year there are 97 000 people entirely available, corresponding to 4.1 pst. by the labour force. So there's almost 4,500 more people available than at the same time in 2003. Is it the case that the Government now sees this development before the revised national budget and, in revision, will take action that really attacks unemployment instead of being passive?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e239	The government is not passive. Firstly, a number of proposals have also been made in the State budget on which we were reconciled with the Labour Party, which is intended to increase employment, inter alia. a number of construction projects, a number of transport projects, etc. Of course, the key to boosting employment is to keep costs low, so that Norwegian enterprises can both secure vulnerable jobs and create new ones. Unfortunately, the proposal of the Progress Party would have been a very bad medicine, with the violent money consumption that the party is going for. I think the representative Sandberg is drawing a too dark picture of the Norwegian economy now. We've had a low growth -- that's absolutely right -- in a couple of years. But it's coming up now, and the forecast indicates that we can get a growth in gross domestic product in this year of about. 3 pst, and equivalent into next year. So it's going to be able to take up employment, and we're already seeing signs of it. Of course, the number from Aetat, which the representative Sandberg referred to when it came to the vacancy, is too high, I fully agree with that. We have to bring down that number. But now it's at least flattened out. There is a certain trend towards decline in the last few months, overall, and we have reason to believe that it could decrease further, especially in the second half of 2004. And what makes it quick in the economy again is the low interest rate and the low interest rate. I myself was last week in a meeting with the business community in Romesdal and Sogn and Fjordane. It was a completely different tone than it was a year ago. Now the optimism is back. Exports are increasing significantly, investments are increasing, and they look forward to the future. That's what I think the representative Sandberg would bring, instead of drawing a dark picture here. In fact, those who are out in the business world now have a different opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e250	I note that the Prime Minister chooses to attack the positive proposals of other parties in terms of reducing employment, instead of looking at his own argument and failing in relation to the policy promised in the 2004 budget. I would also like to point out that the Bank of Norway recently made figures indicating very low investments in the companies. The growth in corporate credit demand was negative for the second consecutive month. Even at an extremely low interest rate, companies have problems finding profitable investment projects. So my claim that the Prime Minister is standing here drawing such a bright picture is that one actually has the opposite effect. For the second consecutive year, it is a party that has made extensive proposals here in the United Kingdom on concrete measures to reduce unemployment. At the same time last year, it was also done, without government or big business following up the proposals in any way. So my question is again: does the Prime Minister and the Government now act in revision to come back with active measures to really try to reduce employment, instead of drawing a picture that is rosy and that does not match the actual conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e259	First, I must be allowed to tell the representative Sandberg that when he accuses the Government of being passive – which of course is completely wrong – he has to bear to hear a little about the consequences of his own party's policy. It was just the facts I pointed out. As for the picture of the situation in the Norwegian economy and business, I'm not going to draw this rose red, but when the representative Sandberg started saying that it's gloomy, it's not exactly what people out in the living business are saying. They are pleased that the Government has pursued a policy that has made them competitive again, and that exports have increased significantly in many countries in the country, among others. in the North West, where I was last week. In the revised national budget, we must promote the proposals and policies that we believe are adapted to the fight against unemployment. The representative of Sandberg can be sure of that. But we can't do it just by spending money, which makes interest rates, prices and the rate of interest rise again. Then we're ruining employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e268	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e271	The basic problem in the Norwegian economy now is that, although the economy and economic cycle are turning around and growth is starting to rise – which is good – unemployment is falling at a high level. And what we've seen in many other countries, too, is that once unemployment has reached a level, it's very difficult to push it down again, even though growth is rising. The freedom goes up more easily than it goes down. Therefore, it is necessary to mobilise vigorously to reduce unemployment, even if the economy is turning around. We have had over 100,000 unemployed people in Norway before, but then it was massively mobilised to reduce unemployment. That's why we managed to get the time off to 50,000-60,000. Now the government has said that it is pleased with the economic development, although the unemployment seems to stabilize around 100,000. It may go down a little by itself, but the prospect is that it will remain at a very high level, even if economic growth takes hold. Therefore, much more targeted efforts are needed to combat unemployment. It is true that the budgetary agreement gave more in action, but we need further escalation in the fight against unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e278	Firstly, I agree with the representative of Stoltenberg that it is more difficult to push down again an unemployment that has come at an too high level than it is often to see it faltering. Therefore, the Government will not sit passive and see that it is at a level of 97 000. I can assure the representative Stoltenberg that the government is not satisfied with such a level of unemployment – if that is what he tried to create an impression of. Of course, we are pleased that there is now a completely different optimism in Norwegian business regarding the opportunities to secure and create new jobs. It is, in fact, a main objective of this government. We adapt the economic situation and the measures to combat unemployment, to reduce unemployment. Giving people a job is, in fact, for the co-operation government a major part of economic policy. I expect that the representative Stoltenberg also agrees that we should not do this in a way that only fires up again under a price, interest rate and exchange rate increase. After all, we've really ruined employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e285	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e288	Unemployment in Norway is high, too high, and it has stuck even though interest rates are falling. The only thing that now moves significantly upwards in Norway is prices in the housing market. It's time to be constructive. SV has launched an action package on unemployment which could provide 20,000 new jobs in different fields, e.g. in the case of forced expansion of school buildings and social housing, racial protection, renewable energy and alternative energy sources, increased extraction rates in the North Sea, rail development and several other measures. How does the Prime Minister deal with this package?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e295	We come back to economic policy in the revised national budget. Many of the measures mentioned by the representative Bjørklund are measures already in the budget. But I understand that SV will have a further increase in the different fields. It is also interesting that SV is in favour of increased extraction rates in the North Sea – there are new rates from SV. We're going to study all of these suggestions. It is also true, the representative of Stoltenberg was concerned that we had – it was actually under a workers' party government – a much higher unemployment early in the 1990s. At that time, the greater the need for action to bring it down. Fortunately, such a high level was never available during the Cooperative Government, as under the Workers' Party. But it's too high, and we're going to do what we can to push it down. I cannot now comment on all the proposals referred to by the representative, Mr Bjørklund, from the Chair of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e302	Kenneth Svendsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e305	The Prime Minister says to Sandberg that the government is not passive. However, with regard to the national transport plan for the next period, there is actually a reduction in the first years of 545 million. kr in relation to the adopted national transport plan – plus 600 million. kr per. years as the Sem Declaration has promised the Norwegian people. Then the Prime Minister says it's not so gloomy. But it is very gloomy for the 100,000 people who are unemployed and in line. That's about. 10 000 unemployed workers raising unemployment benefits. There's an increase in the number of fatalities in traffic because we don't invest in new and better roads, four-field roads with middle parts. Would it not be better to put these 10,000 works in place to build this country, to save all the lives that are lost in traffic today, and all that are being damaged in traffic today, plus to get the industries out in the districts and around in this country back on track, so that they can compete and deliver their products to markets in Europe and in the Central East region, and earn money from it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e313	The difference between the Government and the Advance Party in terms of the national transport plan and also some other important areas of action is that we need to put this into a responsible economic framework. It does not normally do the Progress Party. They have a number of proposals that, in isolation, may seem sensible, but the sum of them becomes unreasonable, because it creates an economic development that undermines employment. It does not help to put anyone in work in one place, if one takes from much more work because a burster is responsible for the financial framework. The government has given priority to road purposes. We increased the appropriations in the proposal for the current year's budget by approx. 700 million. kr. It was the highest level in many years. With regard to the national transport plan for the next period, we have stated that, for road and rail purposes, we will have a total of NOK 1 billion more per. year over the level of appropriations for 1998–2001 and 370 million. kr higher per. year over the average level of appropriations for the years 2002 to 2004. So there's an increased bet from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e320	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e323	I also want to comment on the availability of the construction industry and the road standard. I believe that extra funds should be used to set free hands and machines in motion, so that you could improve the road standard and therefore the infrastructure, which in turn would provide a better framework for business. It had to be value creation and would provide the basis for increased employment and growth. So a small question: the increased unemployment has led to the exclusion of a very large number of people with disabilities and those with a job choice from work. The Government has continued the agreement on inclusive working life. That's where you have to focus on this group. What will the Government now do to increase access to the labour market for disabled persons and persons with disabilities and those with a professional choice, thereby becoming employed, so that they can have a meaningful daily life, with their own income?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e332	Firstly, I want to say that the government, together with the social partners, renewed and adjusted the IA agreement before Christmas. Regrettably, the effect, especially in the case of sick leave, has not been as the assumption. If the objective of the IA agreement of reducing sick leave by 20 p.m. In 2005, the government had spent almost 10 billion more on the budget for purposes other than what we have. It says a little bit about what sizes of numbers we're dealing with. In the case of the groups referred to by the representative, the IA Agreement provides for a more active follow-up to them. That more people could have temporary incapacity is followed up, so that they could possibly come back without being long-term incapacitated. In the case of reintroduction, there shall be a corresponding rapid follow-up in order to bring people back to work in full or in part.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e339	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e342	: I have a question for the Prime Minister. In the last six months, two major reforms have been presented. The first is the pension reform, and at the time of the presentation, the Commission’s manager clearly stated that the pension scheme was not suitable for implementing the policy of distribution. Then we have a tax reform, and the Government has presented its tax report. The Minister of Finance has been quite clear that the tax system is not particularly well suited to implementing distribution policies. Both of these reforms contribute to the same thing, namely increasing the differences between those who have the least and those who have the most. The Christian People's Party has just had a new national meeting and elected a new leader. He has determined that a more fair distribution shall be a major matter for the Christian People's Party. Is the tax reform, which increases the differences between those who have the most, and those who have the least, in line with the Christian People's Party's distribution policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e353	Yes, because I believe the presentation from Heidi Sørensen is wrong. The tax reform provides for a fairer tax system. The great injustice of today's tax system is that those with large capital income pay only 28 pst. taxes on their income. A corresponding employee income may pay up to 55 pst. in marginal taxes. It is the great injustice, and this government is proposing something concrete to put an end to it, by proposing some sort of dividend tax and a slightly reduced marginal tax. Then it equals taxation of capital and compensation of employees. When we reduce the marginal tax, it could in isolation get a biased distribution profile for those with only employee income. We're correcting that by also proposing tax relief at the bottom, by increasing deductions. So it becomes a fair distribution profile. At the same time, there will be a much better tax system for our businesses, which can increase value creation and secure and create jobs. When it comes to pension reform, we have to do something, because today the system will eventually collapse if we don't change it. It's not sustainable. When people's rights were introduced, we worked on average for 45 years and were pensioners for about 45 years. 10 years. Now people work on average for approx. 35 years of age and retired for 20 years. Then it goes without saying that this system needs to be changed in order to be sustainable. That's what you do, and through the guaranteed minimum pension and the modernised popular pension proposed by the Pension Commission under the leadership of the former Labour Party Council, Sigbjørn Johnsen, we believe that this is going to be quite good. But we're going to keep working on it and see if it can be further improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e362	There is no doubt that SV is pleased that a dividend tax is introduced, but the sum of the tax reform means that those who have the most will get more and those who have the least, please get little more. It makes the differences increase. On 29 August last year, the Prime Minister said, ‘It is a shame that we have so many poor children in Norway.’ Many of these kids have parents who are dependent on a welfare state or who have very low incomes. Will a tax bill of DKK 12 billion and a tax reform that increases the differences between those who have the most, and those who have the least, help help the poor kids in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e369	What helps to help the poor is that we have targeted measures to support the poor. The co-operation government is the first Norwegian government to put forward a plan of targeted action to help the poor in our own country. In fact, the Prime Minister is quite satisfied with that. We have raised the level of targeted action against poor groups in Norway by nearly DKK 1 billion through the first three budgets, and I can say here and now that we are going to continue the escalation in next year's government budget. Lone dependants, long-term social assistance recipients, migrant groups, etc. – the ones we know are poor. They must be supported by targeted actions. But I disagree with the presentation that it is those who have the most, who now get the most through the tax reform. They're going to get a dividend tax, which they haven't had in years, which makes the tax system fairer than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e374	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e377	It is absolutely necessary to do something about the difference in taxation of capital and labour. It's necessary to do something about it, because this government has increased that difference. One of the first things this government did was to remove the dividend tax we had, so that the difference between taxes on labour and taxes on capital increased sharply. That's why it's good that the government turns around and understands that it was wrong, and that the Christian People's Party is now back where they were when they cooperated with us, and believes that it's right with some sort of dividend tax on capital. But then we're back where we were before the Bondevik government increased the differences by removing the dividend tax we had until 2001. The second problem is that what is included in the dividend tax of those who have the highest capital income is much less than what you distribute back to the same people in terms of gradually removing the wealth tax and reducing the top tax considerably. Overall, there is no doubt that the tax reform presented by the Government leads to greater differences, significantly greater relief for those who have the most, and less money in the common funds to pay for, among others. pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e385	If one is to carry out such a tax reform, in which there seems to be broad agreement on the main elements, without greasing it with relief, it becomes unsocial. That's what I'm asking if the Workers' Party is in favour. The consequence of what the Workers' Party says – a reform, but without lubricating it with relief – is that it can become unsocial, for one must lubricate it with relief, among other things. to provide the necessary relief at the bottom of the small and medium income. When the Workers' Party carried out a tax reform in 1992, it was lubricated with some relief. 5,5 billion kroner – today it will be worth 7 billion kroner. It corresponded to 1.8 pst at the time. of the total taxes. That cooperation government has now announced is roughly equal to the exact same thing, namely 1.9 pst. of the total taxes. In that way, we're doing something about what the Workers' Party did. What was right at that time is obviously completely wrong now, twelve years later. The taxes on wealth should descend and gradually disappear, in order to ensure Norwegian ownership and to prevent tax-based emigration from Norway. Otherwise, our pensioners pay 40 pst. of our wealth tax today. I understand that Stoltenberg wants them to still pay a lot of taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e394	Heikki Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e397	I also want to ask about redistribution. In the government's housing report, where there are not so many other measures, the government has at least a clear objective that young people should be helped into their first dwelling. But then comes the tax return, which completely kicks its legs under this. There you remove the BSU scheme – which is about 400 million. kr – and introduce a document fee on residential properties, which was previously opposed. Dwellings are small dwellings, dwellings in which young people establish themselves and which are most often traded. In the past, the document fee has actually been a majority on Stortinget to remove. Instead of making more targeted use of this extra tax for young people, in order to provide young people with a place to live, these tax payments drawn from young people are to be used to remove the house tax, which will lead to an increase in prices and which will provide the most in tax relief to those with the largest house and no tax relief to those without housing. Then my question is: is it that housing policy should not be used for redistribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e408	Yes, it is, and therefore one has to do more to give a dwelling to those who find it most difficult to enter the housing market. It has been outlined by the Government in the Housing Communication. In addition, it is not correct for the Government to go in to remove the BSU scheme and to introduce a document fee for housing law. I asked the representative Holmås to read the tax report more carefully. It's said that we're going to go through all the deductions that we have today in the tax system that make it more complicated. However, we have not specifically notified what deductions we want to remove, and which we want to keep – we also want views from the Stortinget – in addition to that we have referred to the Sem Declaration, where a few deductions that we want to keep are prioritised. As regards the document fee for housing law, the Ministry has said that initially all dwellings should be treated equally, and that we will therefore look at the differences that are currently in that system. But we have not said that we are imposing such a document fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e417	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e420	There's something absurd about the Prime Minister's answers today. On the one hand, he stands here and regrets that the sickness absence has not fallen so much that he has 10 billion extra kroner at his disposal for the benefit of those who need it. On the other hand, he stands here and defends a tax reform that opens up billions in favor of those who already have the most. In 1990, the tenth of the highest income had 19 pst. of the total income, the lowest tenth had 4 pst. at the disposal. In the year 2000, the corresponding number was 24 pst. and 3.8 pst. The tax reform of the Government is now reinforcing this difference. I want to remind the Prime Minister that those who think the least are not getting involved in the tax havens, but they are getting their share in the government's increasing ownership of health, care and school. Is that a fair policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e425	First of all, those who earn the least benefit from the government's tax relief, because we are proposing to increase the bottom line. And as you know, it's those who serve at least, who have the greatest advantage of it. The representative, Kleppa, manufactures this in a way that does not correspond to the message, to say it nicely. Secondly, we go in to remove the tax on the benefits of housing. I don't think it's any particularly good social policy that houses and homes should be taxed through up to several forms of taxation, as we have in Norway. We go in to remove one of them. Thirdly – and then I come back to the main point: the great injustice of the tax system today is the difference between those who have large capital incomes and those who only have employee incomes. The injustice goes into the government to remove. Isn't the Center Party open for that? It's the big and important thing, and that's why it's now becoming a fairer tax system. But if one is going to do this, one must lubricate it with relief, otherwise it becomes unsocial, for reasons I have mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e434	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e437	I also have a question for the Prime Minister. The state has large values in a number of larger companies. Any sale of holdings in these companies must be made in such a way that the State does not destroy its own values. The way in which the Government has now chosen to deal with sales in some state companies has led to questions: Why did DnB shares be bought in the market, probably at overprice, instead of getting a fixed issue? Why was SND Invest sold out in the market, probably at underprice, contrary to what the SND Invest board recommended? And why do you choose to sell Telenor shares in a difficult market, instead of retaining the possibility of assessing industrial alliances in the future? The question is simply whether the government is so ideologically concerned about getting less state ownership that for this reason, it risks taking into account the need to safeguard the values of the state in the event of possible sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e448	First of all, I have to say that what the government has done in terms of both SND and Telenor is in line with the staging decisions and powers the Stortinget has given to the Government in terms of the sale of SND, and the corresponding in terms of sales in Telenor. We have an administration that also uses external consultants on such issues, and which carefully evaluates the timing and form of such sales in order to safeguard the interests of the state. So the representative Arnstad shouldn't think we're ideologically so suspended in this that we're just busy selling out at any time, and for example. at an adverse time. With regard to the circumstances surrounding the sale of SND Invest, the Minister of Industry has been asked to explain this to the Stortinget, and he will do so. As far as I know about the matter, it is done in the best possible judgement regarding the time and price in relation to possibly waiting. I think the representative Arnstad should be a little careful to say that someone here has sold it at underprice. At least one should await the detailed presentation of the Council of State before taking such a strong expression in its mouth. So this is in line with powers given by Stortinget, and the Government is trying to exercise the best possible judgement and to use those powers in a way that ensures the best possible value of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e457	I've been told not to claim anything, I'm asking questions, and I'm really asking the Prime Minister if he feels confident that this is sold to the value it actually has, and that the state does not destroy its own values here. It is correct that the government has received a clear signal for sales from Stortinget, but it is also true that Stortinget has not said that it must be sold right now. One has not said anything about deadlines. One has not said anything about how. And one has taken it for granted that here the government would do it in such a way – and preferably for a long time – that the state gets back what is possible for its own values. The problem of selling in Telenor now is simply that in a situation where the stock exchange is flooding with shares, the price is thus falling, and the state is losing in relation to the difficult market situation. It's one of the obvious things that the government has to consider before any sale. So there's a lot of people who would think that one here is on the swinging ground not only in relation to the values that one might possibly sell off, but also in relation to the industrial freedom that one could have had in terms of the ability to go in alliances instead of direct sales out in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e467	That's right, as Arnstad's representative says, we don't have to sell right now. Nor was the government going to sell those shares as soon as the powers of the Storting had been given. The government and the ministry have, on the contrary, awaited the situation, obtained advice and made it at some point thought favourable to the values and interests of the state. But this will, as far as SND Invest is concerned, the Stortinget would be able to assess in more detail in the light of the statement made by the Council of State, so I will not go further into it now. In the case of Telenor, I have good reason to believe, with the information I have, that the price was good, that the time was reasonable. I can assure you that we have had one main objective in mind, namely to safeguard the interests of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e474	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e477	The working party is a party to create and share. We are therefore committed to an active industrial policy to ensure profitable private enterprises in Norway. In order to do that, we need government instruments, especially in a start-up phase, so we have SND. Therefore, it was also wrong to sell SND Invest, because SND Invest provided valuable equity to companies in a start-up phase, in a build-up phase. Whether it's Tomra or it's ScanWafer in Grenland or Glomfjord, there are examples of profitable private companies that have come into existence through a partnership through government and private business. So this government chose to sell the entire SND Invest. This means a severe weakening of an important tool to ensure profitable private enterprises around Norway. It was therefore wrong to sell SND Invest. It weakens the innovation in Norway, and it was also a double mistake to sell it at an unreasonablely low price. However, although the price was correct, the sale was incorrect. My question to the Prime Minister is: Are they wrong about all the business leaders who criticize the state for now having a passive industrial policy, among others? through the sale of SND Invest?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e484	Now, Stoltenberg says, "That's why we have SND." No, now we don't have SND, now we have Innovation Norway. I had thought that Stoltenberg was up-to-date. That's where we've gathered a lot of the former tool. Through Innovation Norway and through the Government’s strong communication on innovation, this government has presented a more offensive innovation policy than any other previous government. SND Invest was sold after an agreement with SV in Stortinget, and we got compensation for a nationwide seed fund, which I believe for business will be a more favourable overall arrangement. Under Innovation Norway, there are now a number of instruments, and we are launching eight targeted projects in the fields of industries and geography to get an active industrial policy, not a passive industrial policy. I think the result of this is eventually coming. It's not always hanging back in old instruments that are the most beneficial, it's creating new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e491	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e494	The sale of SND was authorised by SV. The party of progress drew its mandate. We were first out, because we realized, as I said at the time, that this would be like selling chickens in rainy weather. Now there's Telenor that's up to date, and there's also an authority to go down to the top of 50 pst., yes, the government can even go down to 34 pst., if it happens in the form of a strategic alliance. But the big problem is, as I see it from previous billions of sales, that most of the values go out of the country. When we look at previous sales in Telenor and Statoil, between 80 and 90 pst. of values out of the country. And we know that when it comes to sales in the billions class, it's very difficult for private Norwegian sources to raise capital. Only 5 pst. of the private ownership of the Oslo exchange is Norwegian. And part of our financial institutions are moving out of the country. How will the Prime Minister contribute, so that Norwegian private sources can be more involved and compete for valuable pieces of Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e501	Some of the answers to this question are found in the tax communication and precisely in the proposal that others in the Chamber have criticised, namely, to step down and gradually remove the wealth tax. For it has gradually become a rather strange tax, which they abandon in most other countries. That makes us get some tax-motivated emigrations from Norway. So I expect the Progress Party then, even though they drew their mandate when it came to SND Invest, to stand firm on this issue. The whole tax communication is based on a policy that is more business-friendly in relation to Norwegian companies and Norwegian ownership. In addition, we have now put together the tool in Innovation Norway. In this context, we are launching eight concrete projects for industrial development in different industries and parts of the country, and we have received a system of seed funds as an important incentive for economic development. I'm glad that SV here was less dogmatic than the Progress Party and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e508	Inge Ryan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e511	SV is pleased that we have combined a little over SEK 1.5 billion to invest in business in economically weak areas. During the package agreement with the Government, SND Invest sold. But I have a question for the Prime Minister, and it goes in relation to who's responsible when you're going to sell, whether it's the Storting, or whether it's the Government. We're often blamed here in Stortinget for operating with big business. We fully support the sale of SND Invest. But it's probably the government's responsibility to make sure that this is sold in such a way that you get the best price for it, and that the state gets the money that the government should have when you make such a sale? It's not the Grandfather's responsibility to implement such a decision, is it not entirely the responsibility of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e518	The representative of Inge Ryan is quite right about that. It is the responsibility of the majority of the population that it is sold, but when, and how, of course, is the responsibility of the government. We're using a power we've been given from the bulk of the population, and we believe that we've used it the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e523	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e527	What the Prime Minister now said is correct: the government has been given a power to sell, not an order to sell. The government might even have let go of selling shares, if you found out that the market was not good enough for you to sell. But it's a fact that that sale like you, for example. now in Telenor, likely to increase the foreign ownership interest in Telenor. What the government is doing with this is reducing the state's ownership of a Norwegian company, which has been good investments for the community for many, many years. In return, the oil fund is used to increase the ownership interest in non-resident companies. With the results you can see, for example: in relation to the sale of SND Invest, and with what is now seen with Telenor, where the Norwegian holding is reduced in favour of an increased foreign share, must there be reason to ask the Prime Minister: wouldn't it be better to sit on a relatively high government, public, holding in these companies instead of making substantial investments in foreign companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e534	It is important that the State is strong within large infrastructure companies such as Statoil, as it was also the Workers' Party that privatised, and Telenor and other important companies of that type. That's also going to happen. The size has authorised a sale to a certain level. It seems reasonable to the Government to exploit it at the times that are favourable. But we want government governance – necessary governance, framework management – in these areas. Therefore, the State must maintain a high level of ownership both in Statoil and in Telenor and in some other similar companies. But that one has a certain partial privatisation, we see it beneficial that these companies should be as competitive as possible in the market in which we operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e539	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e542	I also have a question for the Prime Minister, which concerns a whole new theme. In recent years, in Norway, we have used medicines such as methadone and Subutex in the treatment of drug addicts. This has saved life and restored dignity to people who have literally lived in the reindeer stone. In a letter dated 20 February of this year, the Health Inspectorate states that the professional community estimates that the need for treatment includes 7 000 heavy injecting drug users. At the turn of the year, 550 drug addicts were in line for treatment. The waiting time has been in some places for three years. It is easy to prove that young people lose their lives in this queue. What will the Government do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e551	I agree that we are facing a major problem in terms of drugs and drugrelated harm. The instruments that prove to be effective, such as: The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, referred to, should be strengthened. There are also some points of light in this area. For example, KRIPOS has reported a halving of drugrelated deaths in the last two years. They explain the decline mainly by the fact that several heavy users receive methadone treatment and that health services have been strengthened, including alcohol and alcohol. through lowthreshold health services to those harmed by drugs. The Government has been set to strengthen its efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e558	I thank you for your answer. In my opinion, the great ethical paradox in this case is that the drug addict's doctor cannot initiate what I would call life-saving treatment, because the law forbids the decision to do so. The doctor knows that the young patient can die if he does not do anything. He's got drugs that can help. He can take responsibility for a complete rehabilitation facility, but he is not allowed. The working party believes that we have to think about this matter again. The doctor must be allowed to treat drug addicts as other patients. I have a prayer to the Prime Minister: can the Prime Minister meet such a proposal with an open mind, and make sure that the Government is at least positive in investigating this as a possible alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e567	Let me first say that we have a division of work between permanent doctors and specialist doctors. Determiners also play a central role in the medicinal product-assisted rehabilitation service. They refer to treatment, they follow up patients after they have been evaluated by e.g. methadone centres, once stabilised on medication, and initiate a rehabilitation process. At these stages, the definition plays a central role. Whether they can also have an additional role and take over some of what specialists are doing today in putting in a life-saving treatment is a question I'm going to bring back to the Minister of Health with an open mind. I do not want to take a stand on such a change in the division of labour, but anything that can save lives and give those drug addicts a human existence will be in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e572	Time allows only one supplementary question – Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e575	In this question, we must be humble, as I actually perceive the Prime Minister to be. In the past, the Labour Party was opposed to the decision-makers taking responsibility for these medicinal products and for a comprehensive rehabilitation scheme. However, needs and experiences suggest that we need to take new action, and we need to use the competences of the doctors at the level where the drug addicts actually are. So even if the Workers' Party has turned around, we don't think that pills and drugs alone solve the drug addict's problems. It has advantages and disadvantages. Nevertheless, does the Prime Minister see that these drugs have led many drug addicts to life in more dignified forms than before, and will it be the government's line ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e580	The answer is yes. I see that these drugs have given more drug addicts a more worthwhile life, and I've also met some of these people, who can tell you about it, even during visits to institutions here in Oslo, and I'm very happy about that. But at the same time, it is very important that they can move forward and be helped out of their drug problem, so it is important to have a rehabilitation process and follow-up. Such medicinal products can provide help, can give them a more humane existence. It's in itself positive. It will be even more positive if we can help them to get out of their drug problem and eventually become independent of such drugs. Therefore, the whole process of medically assisted rehabilitation and lowthreshold services is very important. It's as well-known as anything the government is working for, and here I think we're in line with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e585	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e591	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Heikki Holmås to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 3, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Health, will be taken up by the representative Harald T. Nesvik. Questions 9 and 10 from the representatives of Lena Jensen and Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, respectively, to the Minister for Education and Research, are moved and answered, at the request of the Council of State, in response to question 2. Question 15, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Defence, who has been removed. Question 16, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered in response to question 6 to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e611	This question, from the representative Heikki Holmås to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e614	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but see that the Minister for Finance has to answer. He's a pretty good guy, who probably knows a lot about Iran, so I get to be happy with that! The question is as follows: ‘Norwegian authorities have actively committed themselves to strengthening the establishment of Norwegian business in Iran, given the idea that interrelationship and dialogue with the Iranian regime will contribute to the positive development of conditions for human rights and democratic development in Iran. The recent elections were a setback for democracy. What plans does the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Norwegian authorities and the Norwegian business community have further relations with the regime in Iran?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e623	The questioner can thank me, but on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs I can then answer the following: Norway today has normal diplomatic relations with Iran. It is therefore both natural and positive that we also have a certain corporate exposure in the country. Issues related to corporate social responsibility and the activities of Norwegian business abroad are important. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in close contact with the business community on these issues, including: through the Compact Consultation Forum, which is the consultation body for human rights and Norwegian financial engagement abroad. The aim of the Compact is to contribute to strengthening human rights, inter alia: by raising awareness of human rights issues in business. COMPACT, established in 1998, brings together participants from business organisations, non-governmental organisations, research institutions, enterprises and authorities. Although the last parliamentary elections were a clear step backwards for democratic rights, we must not give up efforts to improve the situation in Iran. Before the elections, reformists asked that outsiders not interfere with the political process that took place in the parliamentary elections. We respected that, but we still believe that social and dialogue with our Iranian interlocutors is the way to go to achieve improvements in Iran. The question of democracy and human rights will therefore constitute an important topic in our further dialogue with Iran.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e636	I thank you for the answer, but I have, surprisingly, a follow-up question. In the last elections, reform politicians, as the Minister of Finance also says, became obsessive. There were very many people who were not allowed to remain silent, there were very many who did not vote, simply because a majority in the National Assembly, Majlis, does not bring about changes in society, because all the decisions that are of a certain social nature, are stopped by the Guardian Council, which is appointed under the full control of spiritual leader Khamenei. Then there is the question: what does the Government do specifically to the real leaders of the country, and not just in conversations with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the kind of thing that I see that the Minister of Foreign Affairs answered questions from Morten Höglund in the Question Time of 10 March? What are we doing concretely to support under democratic forces outside this Parliament, as we did in the Balkans for periods of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e643	I think maybe we shouldn't mention the Foreign Minister as the ‘type of thing’, but I'll take the question. The question concerned more directly how to meet the Watch Tower Council. It's probably depending on who the Iranian authorities are working with. I could mention that Secretary of State Helgesen in the U.D. is going to have a trip to Iran in May this year. The purpose of that trip is twofold, both to attend the Norwegian oil seminar in connection with the International Oil Fair in Iran and also to discuss among others. human rights issues with Iranian authorities and reform work with Iranian parliamentarians. So when you get as far as it's official access, to the real rulers. I think there are several countries that notice that access to the very top of the Security Council is somewhat restricted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e648	I myself was visiting Iran as part of the President's delegation last fall. There is no doubt about Norwegian politicians, among others. uses its influence to promote the interests of Norwegian industry, strictly without imposing requirements other than purely economic ones. Nor do we make any demands, as far as I am concerned, towards Hydro and Statoil, even though they are clearly seen by Iranian parliamentarians, who have a very strong mix of state and policy, as instruments for the economy and policy of the Norwegian state. Then my question is: to what extent does the Government believe that Hydro and Statoil can be used as democratic havens and arenas for both corporate democracy and trade unionization, and thus simply as a place where values such as freedom of expression and human rights can be cultivated? To what extent does the Government promote such invitations or concrete proposals to business partners?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e655	I refer to what I said in my first answer, that human rights issues and democratic issues are among the themes of dialogue through the Compact Forum, where companies also participate in line with the authorities. To what extent Norwegian enterprises in totalitarian countries can constitute a kind of peace mark for Western values, I think one should have limited expectations about. We have the expectation that Norwegian companies will bring the Norwegian or Nordic farm culture into the world, but it is clear that it is limited when this is opposed to legislation or cultural traditions/prejudices in the countries in which they operate. But to put it this way, they're going to do the best they can out of the place where they operate, including in relation to labour rights, corporate culture and, as far as it goes, within the company's borders, also human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e664	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘A boy from Hedmark has received a replacement for the patient due to his injury. wrong treatment after birth that made him blind. The parents have to pay taxes on the compensation. Does the Council of State consider that there is a basis for amending the legislation in such a way that families of children who are being compensated for patients should not be taxed on this amount?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e673	Let me first point out that the paid one-time compensation for life-long disability and the like. is tax-free. The tax question in this context therefore concerns the subsequent annual treatment of bank deposits and interest arising from the amount of compensation received by the child. So it's about ordinary, annual capital taxation, where it's special that the capital was received by children to compensate for disability. Children under the age of 17 are similar in nature to their parents and thus do not receive their own tax-free base amounts in the capital tax. However, the Tax Directorate has given instructions on so-called ‘low-cost’ reductions in property taxes and income taxes on children’s means of compensation for personal injury. Under these guidelines, VAT may be waived as a result of the common equation with the parents. The current exit policy, as I see it, provides for the tax burden arising from the resemblance of children and parents. But such remission depends on the fact that tax relief is actually applied for. I am going to assess in more detail whether the tax relief provided by the remission scheme today should also be legalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e682	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is not directly easy for anyone, nor is it the technique of the tax system. But it is clear that when it is such that there has been a mistreatment that in this case caused the boy to become blind, there has been a medical loss at the hospital, and he has received compensation for the patient, I understand that it seems unreasonable that someone then has to pay significant taxes from it. I hear the Council of State say that here it is possible that it can be abandoned etc., but it then opens up the discretion of the various local offices, and fortunately there are not so many of these. My question is: Will the Council consider clarifying the legislation even more in this area, so that in similar situations this boy's family and others do not pay taxes on compensation that would help to ensure a good life for the boy and others in similar situations in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e691	I just want to add that of course I also understand the tragedy behind this that has happened. But here the question was limited to how we treat it in an equation and in a tax way. Then I refer to what I said in my original answer. Tax relief must be applied for. It shouldn't be complicated. Set up a letter, and show what I have said in my answer, for example, so this should be possible. But I have also said that in order to ensure that there is discretion in the treatment at different offices, I will also consider legalising it. It will not have any effect on this specific matter, but it will be able to ensure that we will not be discriminated against in the future. But send me a letter, and I'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e696	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and with the clarification the Council of State now gave, I think we have reason to be satisfied. I interpret it in such a way that the family concerned can send a letter, and, as the council says, that would be all right. Then we're really excited about it, on behalf of this family. I am also pleased that the Council of State will take an initiative, so that it will also apply to others in similar situations, by legislating the issue of tax relief. So I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e701	Is follow-up requested by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e704	Nothing but saying that I share the joy of the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e709	So let's go to 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e715	I would like to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘The Community accounts of 2003 show that they provide less and less funding for the teaching material of students. Some municipalities have cut with as much as 25 pst. from 2001 to 2003. The figures also show that there are considerable differences between municipalities. While the students in Utsira get NOK 4 938 each for educational material, the students in Oppengård only get NOK 777. Good learning materials are the most important tool we have to ensure quality in school, alongside teaching skills. Will the State Council accept such wide variations in student training provision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e724	Overall, expenditure on education has been relatively stable from 2001 to 2003. It shows KOSTRA figures, most recently through the preliminary figures for 2003, which were presented just two weeks ago. The preliminary figures show an increase from 2002 to 2003 in operational expenditure per year. Student from 58 800 kroner to the top of 60 500 kroner. The final KOSTRA figures will be presented in June, and the Ministry will then come back with a more detailed review of the figures at municipal level. For the time being, only 270 municipalities have provided accounts figures. In terms of educational material expenditure, they have also been relatively stable over the last three years for the country as a whole. That's right, like, for example. The Education Association has pointed out that expenditure fell from 1999 to 2000, but since then it has been relatively stable. It is important to keep track of local differences in the use of resources for schools. However, I am of the opinion that the areas of action of the municipalities are important in order to enable them to adapt their services in the best possible way. There are significant structural differences between the two municipalities the representative Jensen mentions in his question. Utsira municipality has 32 pupils in primary school, while Oppegård has 3,460. Utsira spends a lot of resources on educational material, also compared to the municipalities with which it is natural to compare Utsira. The average cost of teaching materials for these municipalities is NOK 2330 per year. students in 2003. The average cost of the municipalities it is natural to compare Oppegård with is NOK 1174 per person. student. The average cost of teaching material for the whole country in 2003 was DKK 1 258. I would like to point out that a comparison of a single cost item, such as costs of e.g. educational material, for a single year, may give an unsound picture of the real situation. The municipalities are different and have different needs, as shown by the transfers to municipalities through the income system. Utsira municipality had free revenues of more than SEK 74 000 per person. The population in 2003, while Upper Farm had about NOK 23 000. The national average for all municipalities other than Oslo was approximately NOK 24 000. This can also help explain that there are so many differences between these municipalities. In addition, local priorities and different school structures will affect resource use. The funding system for municipalities takes into account the different expenditure needs of municipalities and therefore also varies income. However, there will be a need to consider whether the differences in income are fair. I refer to the fact that the Government has appointed a sample to carry out a wide professional review of the distribution mechanisms of the funding system, inter alia. to arrive at a fairest possible system. We accept that there is inequality in the priorities of municipalities, but we insist that national standards are set by the state, for example. curriculums for the training which all municipalities are obliged to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e741	: I would like to thank you for your answer. I also believe, as the Council of State says, that it is important to keep up with developments, and I am very pleased that the Council of State does so. I also agree with what the Council of State says that looking at the figures for a single year can only give an unsound picture. Good learning materials are the most important tool we have to ensure quality in school, alongside teaching skills. I expect the Council of State to agree that 777 kroner is not a lot of money, when this money, among other things. are to be used for books, rulers, pencils, flours, etc., and not least for new teaching materials – new, modern teaching materials – in school. Of course, it may also be fascinating to hear about teachers who go around flea markets, or take money from their own pocket to buy learning material. But when this becomes normal in many municipalities and not an exception, I think something has to be done. Does the Council of State think that the students have a good enough teaching material in the Norwegian school today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e754	You can always want more, but I would say as a starting point that the resource situation in Norwegian school is good. As I've said countless times, it's about the best in the world, and I've just referred to the number of dollars we spend per. students have also increased in the last year, from 2002 to 2003, as shown by the most recent COSTRA figures. This does not mean that there may not be challenges in each school or municipality, or in each year. Whether the exact number it refers to from the municipality of Oppegård is a low number, it's hard to say before we know what Oppegård has done in the years before and is going to do in the years after. So it's hard to draw out a single year. But mostly I think the resource situation is good. I think it's getting worse if we start to control the municipalities in detail, earmark funds and determine in detail by the state how the municipalities are going to spend their money. Then there will be very little room left for local priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e761	It's alarming that we have a school system that seems to be more powerful and stronger to accumulate and reinforce the social differences we have in Norwegian society. It seems that it is becoming a more important criterion to succeed in school that the children come from a home with a thick wallet, where there are books and you are at home online. The survey ‘Young people in Norway 2002’ confirms that this is aggravating trend. The children who have teaching materials at home are the ones who win at school. If we're to create a fair school that balances the social differences, we have to ensure good learning material in school. I believe there must be an increased bet on this. Does it worry the Council of State that we have a school system that creates losers and winners, and is there any concrete action that the Council of State will take when it comes to increasing school material spending?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e770	I think I almost haven't talked about anything else since I became Minister of Education than that I'm very concerned about the great differences we have in Norway, and about the high proportion of students with professionally weak skills that we have in Norway. A lot of people say this isn't new. And it's not. It's always been like that. But what's new in Norway — and I put forward a few years ago — is that the differences are bigger in Norway than in countries we like to compare with. And what's completely new is that the differences in social background seem to have increased from 1992 to 2002. But in all modesty: this cannot possibly be the result of the policy of the current government. I put a lot of emphasis on that all children should have an opportunity to reach out to their own abilities and talents, regardless of the background they have. I would say that is the main purpose of the policy we are pursuing. We've done a lot. Later today, I want to present even more measures, and then a nuclear term will be equivalence, that being concerned with the similarity that you put in, not always leads to equivalence or equality at the other end, but perhaps rather to greater inequality. Here there is a major mistake in Norwegian school policy that I hope we can help correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e783	I will ask the Minister for Education the following questions: ‘The need for special education and PP service has exploded among Norwegian school students abroad, according to VG. A report from the County of Oslo and Akershus shows that from the school year 2001 to 2002/2003 the need increased by 32 p.m. All Norwegian schools approved under the Law on Free Schooling, obligations to provide PP service and special education to their students. What will the Council of State do to fulfil the intentions of the Law of Education, so that Norwegian students receive the help they are entitled to?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e792	The County of Oslo and Akershus at the Education Department have a national responsibility for the operation of a pedagogical and psychological service for students at Norwegian independent schools abroad. The service was launched as a pilot scheme in 1996, primarily to prevent the need for research and advice for students at Norwegian private schools abroad from collapsing. The original starting point was that no rights to PP service were to be established for students in private schools abroad in addition to addressing existing needs. However, the scheme has become a permanent service and it now follows from the new Law § 3-6 that the rules of the Training Act on special education and PP service apply mutatis mutandis to fresh schools. This will therefore also apply to approved Norwegian fresh oils abroad. In addition, the Ministry of Education of the County of Oslo and Akershus are responsible for supervising the operation of Norwegian boarding schools abroad in accordance with the law. This is the result of the general provision of supervision in the Law § 7-2. In their supervisory reports, the county council imposes changes if schools are operated contrary to the law. In addition, the county may recommend solutions to various issues where appropriate. In the specific case of the VG that Bekkemel Orheim refers to, it turns out to be an actual increase in the number of students in Norwegian hospitals abroad who have received special education. In order for the right to special education to be fulfilled, the school must follow up and implement the decision on special education. Schools have an obligation to follow up such decisions. Those authorities shall supervise them. In cases where it appears that the provision of special education is not working properly, either instructions or recommendations are made to improve the situation. The Department of Education of the county has supervised, inter alia: with the Norwegian school at Costa Blanca, and the school has been instructed to improve its special educational competence by 1 June this year. The school informs the VG that it is in the process of recruiting properly qualified teachers. Therefore, the article in the VG just shows that the right of students to special education under the law on high school education is taken seriously and fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e807	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There have been several media surveys recently on the problems of Norwegian children during family stays in Spain. We've seen it on the school page, but we've also seen several examples of a failing child protection that can't go in and help these kids. When the country spends money on setting up schools abroad for Norwegian students, it is important that they receive the assistance and organized education that is expected. And when we see the increased problems of these concrete schools, I hope that the county has the necessary resources to exercise adequate supervision. I feel that through their response, the Council of State believes it is important that these schools follow up the intentions that have been drawn up for their operation. But I also think it is important that the county council is able to exercise offensive supervision, because this is actually about giving these children a decent and good offer. If we don't make it, we know that we'll get the problems back in other areas later.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e816	As far as child protection issues are concerned, I allow myself not to answer that question, because it belongs to the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. However, the Ministry of Education and Research shall approve the boarding schools and supervise them according to the law. And that law is tightened up in relation to former private school law, in terms of these things. Now, I think we can raise a number of issues related to special education in general, which also apply in Norway, to which this increase is given the opportunity to come back. Sometimes the scope is too large and does not have a real basis based on the criteria the Storting really wanted. But if we leave it at risk, it is clear that these children have the same right as others. As far as resources are concerned, budgets have been balanced so far. As far as resources are concerned, just for special education itself, there is a regulated system, so budgets have to be kept. I'm familiar with the County of Oslo and Akershus and others. in the less distant future, the intention is to make renewed visits to the schools concerned in order to become better acquainted with the situation and to ensure that the instructions and recommendations that have been made are followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e825	I would like to thank the Council of State again. I feel that the Council of State takes this seriously through the answer she has given. As far as special education is concerned, I expect that the Council of State and I will have ample opportunity to discuss it in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e832	I can just say I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e837	That's good. Then we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e846	This question, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Health, will be raised by the representative Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e849	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘According to the Health Supervision Communication for 2003, there are some areas of concern within the LAR. According to the report, there are serious deficiencies in treatment capacity with long waiting lists and times in some parts of the country. There is also a significant unmet need for treatment sites and it is estimated that 70 pst. in the case of 10 000 addicts concerned, an offer should be made within the LAR. Still, many people have to wait up to 2 years for an offer. Will the Council of State take the initiative to increase treatment provision within LAR in the near future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e858	Since the provision of medically assisted rehabilitation became nationwide in 1998, and until today there has been a sharp increase in the number of people admitted to treatment. This government has provided for an annual budgetary strengthening of the offer during the period in which it has been sitting, and also this year. In total, appropriations for this purpose have increased by 68 million. kr. During the same period, there has been a marked increase in the number of patients in treatment. The number of patients admitted to LAR during this period has increased by nearly 1000. At the end of the year, about 2,500 received such an offer. The number of deaths has also increased in terms of drugrelated deaths by half over the last two years. KRIPOS blames the decline in the number of heavy users receiving methadone treatment and the strengthening of health services. So here we see that the government's strengthening and tightening up of the offer has had an effect. Unfortunately, it is also a reality, as the representative Nesvik points out, that many are on the waiting list – 550 at the end of the year. We have received reports that the demand for treatment has increased and thus the waiting lists as well. In the case of waiting time, it varies slightly from region to region. After our reports, a waiting period of up to two years should only have occurred in the Central Norway health region. That's also the background that we've asked Health Nord, in collaboration with Health Mid-Norway, to set up our own regional centre for LAR in North Norway. Provided that everything goes as planned, it will be in place for the harvest. Now we should also be aware that in many cases it will take time for a person to be ready to start in a drug-based rehabilitation facility. The high number of drug users who are often in need of help requires a comprehensive approach with the necessary psychosocial support measures – help to establish a home, etc. I assume that, pending possible participation in the LAR, the municipalities will assume their full responsibility here. In terms of treatment needs, we have no precise figures on it. Within the discipline, the relevant persons for LAR treatment of between 11,000 and 15,000 active injectors are estimated to be between 40 and 70 pst. This means that far more than today’s people could benefit from LAR treatment. Therefore, the Government aims to liquidate the queues for medically assisted rehabilitation and will assess this in budgetary terms. We have also launched a broad evaluation of the LAR. It shall provide us with a detailed response to the capacity of the regional and local action as well as to the functioning of the local follow-up. In addition, the evaluation shall provide the basis for changes in the organisation of the LAR, if justified. We will receive an answer to this in a report in November. In the current year, we have strengthened the budget by a total of 30 million. to increase treatment capacity and job-oriented measures for participants in the LAR. It is also important to stress that LAR is one of several current treatment interventions for drug users. Regional health firms must be given the opportunity, as soon as they take over responsibility for the specialised treatment measures for drug users, to demonstrate that they discharge their new responsibilities. I want to follow developments in this area carefully, because it is one of the most vulnerable groups that may have had the worst access to healthcare in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e880	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. It is both sad and outrageous to read the annual report of the State Health Authority for 2003, which states that only 2,400 drug addicts are receiving methadone or Subutex treatment, while those in need of health supervision are estimated to be about 2 000. 7 000. Drug-assisted methadone rehabilitation and Subutex became nationwide as early as 1998, following a long battle in the Stortinget, such as the United States and Japan. was led by the Progress Party. It is therefore shocking that in 2003, one still has 5 000 waiting for such rehabilitation and that the waiting time for treatment in the current system is quite up for three years more locations in the country. The undersigned and the Progress Party believe that the organisation of the LAR is a direct plug in the system with which one has to dispose. From 1 January this year, heroin users have received patient status and have rights under the Patient Rights Act, which is not being followed up today. Will the Minister of Health consider entrusting LAR with the decision-makers?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e891	It is wrong to produce it in such a way that there are 5000 waiting for treatment. According to regional figures, there are 550 on the waiting list. We should get those waiting lists cleaned up. The representative Nesvik here combines the assessment of how many could have benefited from an offer, with what is actually the situation with regard to waiting lists. Having said that, I would like to say that I have taken the initiative in a critical and external evaluation of the entire LAR organisation, just to see if there are aspects of the organisation that are too bad and that suggest that we should do things differently. I would like to make proposals for the Storting on the basis of the systematic evaluation. Deputies should play an important role in this, but should be linked to a rehabilitation facility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e898	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer, but this time I cannot be quite satisfied with the answer given. From 1 January 2004, the responsibility for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts has been transferred to health establishments. So far, intake peaks in the LAR system are reported, in many places due to a lack of economy. Of course, this has something to do with the general under-financing of healthcare companies in relation to their tasks, but I believe that it may also be linked to the lack of priorities for this healthcare by several of our companies. This development with a worsening situation and longer waiting time for drug rehabilitation despite the rights of these patients cannot be accepted by the Progress Party. Furthermore, we can read what senior advisor Svein Zander Bratland of the State Health Authority has said: ‘We see the problems that the best drugs are not available to everyone in the treatment of detoxification.’ Will the Minister of Health ensure that, in the context of the revised national budget, businesses receive a earmarked additional funding for drug-assisted rehabilitation of drug addicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e912	I have already asked them to have an eye in particular in relation to drug users and drug treatment in the newsletter of health companies, for which they have been given an extended responsibility from 1 January. This also applies to the LAR offer. As I said in my main response, it is my clear goal that we should wind up the queues. In budgetary terms, I will consider what is necessary to achieve that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e920	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘Geitehold is a small but important district industry. Unfortunately, it turns out that the products of this industry are not always used for food. Several thousand litres of goat’s milk is fed to animals each year, despite the demand for goat’s milk products. Furthermore, 45,000 kids are killed at birth, despite lean, healthy and tasty meat. What will the Council of State do to ensure that all products from the goat population are used for food products?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e929	The parties to the agricultural settlement agreed last year that it was necessary to facilitate Norwegian goat’s milk production. A joint working group was set up to explore targeted instruments. The group has recently issued its report. One of the main objectives of this work was precisely to propose measures to reduce the amount of goat’s milk for various reasons in animal feed. Special challenges in this context are that milk production is very widespread in relation to the structure of the processing industry and that the quality of milk is vulnerable to transport. The Group has proposed to offer producers who do not have the opportunity for industrial use a voluntary migration package to stimulate local milk processing or conversion to other production. In order to improve milk quality, it is also proposed to make some changes to the subsidy system and to focus on the health situation of goats. The matter will be settled and followed up in the agricultural negotiations for the spring. Today’s goat farming is mainly based on milk production as a basis for processing into different cheese products. There has been no widespread tradition of meat production in goats. However, I am not in doubt that there is a market potential also for goat meat products, as one has also pointed out in previous studies on opportunities within the goat population in Norway. To exploit this potential, action must be taken at all stages of the value chain. Changes were made to the financial instruments in the agricultural statement last year. As a result, suckling goats were treated in the same way as breeding animals of the sheep. Furthermore, slaughter kids were given the same status as slaughter lambs. It has therefore become more profitable than in the past to feed good quality kids for slaughter. In my opinion, the most important job is now to strengthen the processing and market side. Producers and processors now have to take responsibility, as I have also understood that they do, but it's a bit way to go to get up a market of importance. Other opportunities may also provide local value creation and profitability in the goat population, e.g.: wool and leather production, the importance of goats for the cultural landscape and for the environment and tourist attraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e940	We are aware that there are parts of the country now that get the so-called conversion package, which can be heard temptingly. But that means that what it's kind of natural to do, you're going to end up with. This is an option in predatory areas for keeping goats in relation to sheep farming. We know that the goat avoids predators more, because it clumps a lot more together, while the sheep are much more prone to predator attacks. So, in my opinion, these conversion packages are very demanding. I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture: is it the conservatism of the agricultural cooperative that we now see? We know that those who have been trying to drive local goat's milk production for many years have actually met only resistance. A good friend of mine named Svein Håpnes, fought for 15 years, I think, before he was allowed to produce his own goat's milk. And today there are long waiting lists to deliver cheese to all of Norway. Will the Minister of Agriculture do anything about the conservatism of agricultural cooperation for many years?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e947	Let me first say that with regard to the report I am referring to here, I will decide what I think it is right to promote, when the state is promoting its offer in the agricultural settlement. So that report is what it is, until a political decision is made on what to use. I am concerned about the conversion packages that should come to those goat milk producers who do not currently have the possibility of industrial use for food, but who are in the unfortunate situation that the milk is transported long roads and back again and ends up in a pig-fowl like pig food. They should convert to continue to drive with goats but to process locally. It's my main ambition to do that. That's the kind of conversion I'd like to do, and we have to come up with a good package to get it done. I think we need to understand the agricultural cooperation that they are in a heavy industrial tradition, as the entire Norwegian food supply system is built up, where there are large volumes that are the basis for much of the thinking. It is a great job to get agricultural cooperation to be able to handle smaller volumes and highly specialized qualities. But I think they work well in that area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e954	I appreciate the fact that the Council of State is concerned that we should get solutions that make it easier to produce locally. But I think that agricultural cooperation is kind of a big bend here, because you haven't shown a willingness to participate in this kind of work before. But let me briefly go over to the second part of my question, and it concerns meat. It's a meat that unfortunately hasn't been used at all today. There have been attempts for some years back, and we were then given the project "Sprinkle of the Mountain", where we were going to try to sell meat. It was a very half-hearted experiment, and today meat is in a way totally sporadically used in Norway. Does the Council see the possibility of putting in an offensive so that this healthy, lean meat is more likely to enter the market, and that the kittens are raised, fed and slaughtered in the same way as other animals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e963	Let me say to the first that there aren't very many things that apply, which are in the situation that they don't have the opportunity for industrial application. We might be talking about a 30's use in Norway, so it's a pretty manageable size. And if we can manage to get most of them not to transport this long road on trucks, but to process locally, we also know that there is good economy in it. It's about training, and it's about organizing some tools. Then I would also like to remind you that it is TINE that is the big one – and I have no plans to remove the reception obligation that TINE had to have throughout our entire market system. A small company called the East Company has now been set up to handle the type of small-scale products through the large distribution of TINE. So I see some interesting possibilities, if the individual wants to. So for meat, where luckily something has happened in recent years in the direction that this is produced as food for people, but it's a bit of a way to go, and this has to do with diet and long traditions. We've changed the grant system, as I said, but I hope we're going to be better off on the market now. For example, the health care system, which needs just that type of food for many of its patients, could have been an interesting market to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e973	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘Numbers from SIFO show strong price increases in Norwegian food. Despite the weaker dollar price, goods subject to border trade are on average 42 pst. more expensive in Norway than in Sweden. In halving the food tax, the reduction in prices would benefit consumers. When will the Council of State present margin studies that reveal which stages of the food chain have eaten up parts of the levy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e982	The representative Hedstrom refers to a study by SIFO on the prices of the 50 most exposed goods. After the weakening of the crown in recent times, price differences have decreased, but on these goods, price differences are still significant at the typical border points. Hedstrom claims that there has been a strong price increase in Norwegian food, and indicates that it is a prerequisite that halving the food tax should benefit consumers. We know that the VAT reform has brought about an almost full over-valuation of the tax reduction to consumers. I guess the food was 9 pst. cheaper. Starting from July 2001, the first month after the reform, prices up to now, almost three years later, have increased by 6.8 pst., while the overall price growth has been 4.1 pst. In the last year, food prices in Norway, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, have risen by 2.5 pst. So after the fall in prices almost three years ago, food prices have increased slightly more than the general price increase, which has been abnormally low. I believe that this is still the basis for claiming that the halving of the food tax has benefited consumers, even if we never know what the food prices would have been without the VAT reform. Since October 2002, which is the reference point of the SIFO survey, food prices have increased slightly more in Norway than in Sweden. Employment growth in Norway and some increase in commodity prices may be some of the reasons. Effective competition is important for efficiency and reasonable margins in the value chain. And that's necessary, not least in the segment where price competition is dominant. Good evidence of prices, price quotations and price variations can contribute to increased public attention and to increasing consumer knowledge and increased competition. Monthly evidence of price developments at commodity, wholesale and consumer level. As I have previously announced, I have taken the initiative to examine price increases in the food chain three years after the VAT reform. The survey shall be carried out on a planned basis during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e996	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We are then waiting for the margin surveys that the Council of State has announced to come during the year. I think there are three important reasons for the increased food prices. First of all, some parts of the food chain have taken out increased margins. Secondly, we have received a new meat inspection fee, which is a premium in the hundreds of millions, and thirdly, we have had increased target prices in the last agricultural operation. In total, this has contributed to higher food prices. We're now going to have to confirm that. With regard to the agricultural situation, we know that there has been a significant fall in interest rates in the last year. We have lost between 3,000 and 4,000 annual works. In fact, there has been a significant increase in the efficiency of agriculture. Preliminary calculations before the start of the agricultural negotiations show that farmers arrive between NOK 15 000 and NOK 20 000 better per year. annual work. Will the Council of State, during the agricultural negotiations, now stress that to keep food prices down does not increase target prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1010	Let me first say that there are enough reasons why we have had this price increase. I think it's also important to say that we don't know what would have happened if we didn't have the VAT reduction. When it was implemented, it was not intended that all prices in food and agricultural products should be frozen as well. I think it might be very interesting to see the so-called margin poll. We see from today's newspapers that the most profitable part of Norwegian business is the merchandise trade, not least the food trade. It's where it's the largest yield, and it can't just be explained by the large volumes being sold. There must be some margins, some prices, to multiply the volumes by. I think it's definitely also other than the farmers who have contributed to these prices getting high. So it's going to be interesting to see the margin poll. I am concerned that, through the negotiations in the agricultural settlement of the year, we are able to reduce the cost of food. There is no longer any basis for increasing the price level of Norwegian food. Now, one through the agricultural agreement system has to bring these prices down.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1019	I thank the Council of State for this answer. It is a pleasure to hear that the Council of State will follow up what he has said, that the prices of Norwegian groceries must fall. The Council of State has done a lot too, and he needs to have some credit for that. Concession limits in power-feed-based productions — contributing to rationalisation — increased opportunities for co-operation, tradable milk quotas and a number of other things. But this isn't enough when you look at the statistics. Although food prices are also rising in some other Western countries, price differences are increasing or increasing. On 1 May, we receive a number of food producers – formerly Eastern bloc countries – into the EU. It will contribute to a new price pressure on Norwegian food, even if we are not EU members. Does the government have a strategy or a thought for how to curb the new price pressure that is coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1028	Let me first say that as long as we have food production in Norway, food will always be more expensive here. This applies not only to the level of costs of agricultural production but also to the food industry. But there are limits to how large this price range can be, and we have to work on it. One key in this is Norwegian cereal price levels. The Norwegian grain price is dramatically much higher than the grain price in other countries. Because we want grain production so far to the north, the price of power feed, which is the main means of food production otherwise, is also going to be high. And a little bit of the key that we have to consider towards this year's agricultural settlement is how we can reduce the grain price, for example. to combine with the granting of an area grant. It will also have consequences for all other livestock and food production. It is a very big challenge that the representative Hedstrom is raising, about what happens when the huge food producing country of Poland becomes part of the EEA Agreement. It probably doesn't have any very fast and short-term effects. But we'll follow this closely, and in Norway we can only do one thing: try to become more effective and even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1040	My question to the Minister of Justice is: «In recent times, individuals, insurance companies and fire and ambulance services have reported very serious breaches of police preparedness. If the descriptions of the failure are correct, this is a situation that is contrary to the intention of the adopted police reform: a closer, more visible and better police. The Minister of Justice has so far acted passively and referred to the evaluation in 2005. Will the Council of States now take action to correct distortions, and is it aware of its implementation responsibilities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1049	Initially, I would like to remind you that the police have carried out the largest reorganization that has taken place in the police and officers' seat in over a hundred years. As regards the allegations that police preparedness fails, there is no basis for claiming this. It is now, as in the past, so that the police at all times must and must assess the tasks to be carried out. As part of the implementation of phase 1 of the police reform, operational centres were established in all police districts. This has further strengthened the preparedness and quality of the assessments to be taken in response to the call-out. Unlike in the past, there are staff on active duty at all times to receive messages and to send patrols where it is needed. In addition, the police directorate informs that no reports have been received from any police districts that show that the reform leads to worse preparedness than before — on the contrary. However, it is always necessary to make a strict assessment of what it is right to move on. I stress, for the sake of order, that it is of course still such that the police should always move out if there is a danger to someone's life or health. As far as reference to reporting by insurance companies is concerned, these have been concerned, as far as I understand, with the police's call for and clarification of profitability. Nor has the Police Directorate been reported here to indicate that police reform has a negative impact. As in the past, the police have to carefully assess whether it is right to move out of the pre-existing breach after office hours, because this must be done through the use of costly overtime payments. The fact that it is not considered necessary to move out immediately does not mean that the cases are not followed up with research. Normally the required track securing could take place the next day. In implementing phase 2 of the reform, all police districts are required to maintain and further develop a strong commitment to locality and needs. I want, in cooperation with the Police Directorate, to conduct a reputational survey to ensure that developments are right. By asking the citizens of all 27 police districts, we will get important and correct answers. In the course of the process, adjustments will be made if the measures taken do not improve police service and cost-effectiveness. If it is that the public feels insecure about the changes in the police, I take it seriously as Minister of Justice and will be very aware of it in the evaluation of the reform. In addition, the Directorate of Police and the individual police officer are responsible for ensuring that the service to the public as a whole is not impaired, and they must keep this under review in the implementation of the reform. In addition, I am given the opportunity to address the questions raised by the representative of Storberget when the interpellation of his party-based representative Gunn Karin Gjul is to be debated over Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1066	I thank you for your answer. I miss the activity of political leadership in the Ministry of Justice in relation to this particular issue we are now discussing. Is it so that all the input and comments that are related to how the police function and do not work in Norway are misstatements, there is a serious information problem. If it is that some of the recordings that are coming actually have something in them, in my opinion, you have to live in a reasonably small vacuum to not perceive that it is a challenge in relation to the implementation of the reform. Let it be said right away: in fact, I believe that the intentions behind the reform are good, and to that extent it is also a very good effect of the reform. It will be played out if we do not now receive active measures that can contribute, among other things. to an active watch regime, so that active closeness to how the police operate actually improves. That's where I'm asking for action from the Minister of Justice. How the operating centres have functioned and paralyzed many local police stations is an example of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1075	After the reform that the Labour Party presented and that I have loyally followed up, the Council of State, the Police Director and the police chief are the chief of police. If the Council of State suddenly replaced the police director or the chief of police, we were put back long before the reform. For the specific examples included by the representative in his statement, e.g.: from the insurance industry, I allow myself to quote from a press release by Police Director Killengeren, referring to NRK Dagsnyts, where it says that the head of the Chief Financial Industry Organisation claims that: ‘insurance premiums are increased as a result of lack of police intervention. The Directorate of Police will highlight the reduction in reported profitability by 10.6% in 2003. We assume that winning crimes are reported for insurance reasons. According to police reporting statistics, gross thefts from villas and apartments are halved from 1995’... ‘We find it difficult to see that this provides a basis for higher insurance premiums’. With regard to the situation taken from the electoral district of the representative, there has been vigilance cooperation in the north-east valley between the southern part of the South Trondelag and the north-east valley long before the police reform. To put it a little bit simple: it's a long way to go from, for example, Alvdal Holtål.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1087	This is an exciting debate. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice, to the extent that he meets the opportunity we will have in the Grand Duchy later, because we need a broader debate and more time in relation to this. At the same time, I would like to stress and challenge the Minister of Justice in relation to what was the intention of the police reform, precisely that the police should come closer to the population. Then we experience that that readiness and the presence that you have, among other things. in Hedmark, has actually been significantly weakened. After 8:00 a.m. 16 it's almost impossible to meet a police officer at the police station, whether it's in cities like Elverum and Kongswinger or elsewhere. It is clear that people are responding to it, because part of the police department is actually creating security and showing the local population that you are present, not just resolving matters and having a quick procedure. That is where I believe that political leadership in the Ministry of Justice should have gone much further and said that when we have such an important reform on the steps and are going to implement it, it is important that we do not lose that proximity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1094	I assume that perhaps the representative Storberget has ambitions to become Minister of Justice at a certain time. Then I am quite convinced that he would not have acted the way he thinks I should act. I am quite convinced of that. At the same time, he can be absolutely sure that I am following this closely through those whom I trust – the police director and the deputy of the police director. And just to be sure that what I see is the representative of Storbergets and my common cause, I have for a long time been calling for public and reputational studies in every police district. Anyone who reads Norwegian newspapers – and I do – will see that there are different look-ups in different places. That's something that's very good. That's something you can wonder about, but that's exactly what you're going to learn from. What I understand is that tight budgets, as it is a fact that we have – and here the Labour Party and the Government have voted in favour of the same budget – can lead to tough priorities. However, it is difficult to link it to police reform, because it must build competence and efficiency. I will return to Hedmark. The Chief of Police refers to the security cooperation. When I say that the municipalities are Tynset, Alvdal, Folldal, Tolga, Os, Røros and Holtålen, and that cooperation has existed long before the reform, one cannot criticise the reform as a starting point for taking time to run from, for example. Alvdal Holtål.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1105	We're now going to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1112	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1115	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘The County of Troms has recently put an end to a film team that wants to record in Lyngsalpan and Balsfjord. The rapporteurs in Lyngen, Storfjord, Balsfjord and Tromsø strongly disagree with the decision and believe that Lyngsalpan must be given a local administration. A unanimous chairmanship of Balsfjord strongly protests the decision of the county council. What will the Council of State do to ensure that local democracy has a greater influence on the use of local natural areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1124	I answer on behalf of the Minister for the Environment. Lyngsalpan landscape protected area was established recently to ensure one of the most magnificent and striking mountain areas of northern Norway for the future, and is one of about one of the few. 50 natural areas in the national park land plan. The preparatory work of the safeguard decision has provided the basis for local authorities to be able to take responsibility for the day-to-day management of the protection provisions. Until this is completed, the county of Troms will exercise that authority. Whereas separate rules have been adopted for the protection area and there are those which provide the basis for what should be permitted or not allowed within the limits of protection; This implies that, even if municipalities are transferred to the formal exercise of authority, the framework for what is to be allowed by different activities will be the same. The management framework is reflected both in the preparatory work for the safeguard decision and in the management plan for the area once it has been established. The locality of the administrative authority does not mean that national protection values and Norway’s international obligations to preserve our natural heritage are given lower priority. I trust that the municipalities want to assume such total responsibility when they ask to take over the administrative authority. I also believe that it is possible to find good solutions in most individual cases, so that user interests can meet their needs within the scope of the protection objective. In the case referred to by the questioner, the purpose is to transport operators and equipment by helicopter, to perform repeated landings and to operate low-flying operations in the protection area of film capture. I do not think it is right to address the specific matter to which it refers, as the decision can be appealed to the Directorate of Nature Management. On a general basis, I can inform you that according to the regulations for the protection of the landscape include: motor travel on land and in water and watercourses prohibited. The prohibition also applies to low flying below 300 metres and to landing within the protection area. The collection and transport of passengers and goods where the aircraft is not affected by the ground shall also be prohibited. In addition, where areas outside the protection area are concerned, the municipality has the influence on the use of the natural areas resulting from the general legislation, inter alia, in this context. the design and construction law and the provisions of the Motor Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1143	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that this can be appealed to the Directorate for Nature Management. But if you look at the season, it doesn't have any purpose, for the snow they were going to run in, is probably gone long before that time. So this is just one way to train the case. What has also caused irritation is that they applied in November, and then they refuse the same day that those who have applied to film heliskiing in Lyngsalpan, stand at the airport. The left and the other parties in the government have strong formulations in their party programmes that are just about to increase local democracy and self-determination. The left opens, among others: in its party programme ‘Deliver municipalities!’ for a simpler society and work hard to strengthen local democracy. And the Sem statement says: ‘The Co-operation Board will work to ensure that decisions are taken as closely as possible. The local self-government shall be strengthened.’;» What has the government done in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1159	Both in my time as a government councillor and as a left-wing member, the government has done a lot. There is an enormous amount of authority that has previously been entrusted to agricultural authorities and environmental protection authorities, centrally and locally, because we trust that local peoples represent a good judgement. With regard to key national environmental issues that have retained some general frameworks, the answer I have given shows that very much has been delegated. And with regard to the specific matter that was raised, I said that it is the county that rules until the municipalities actually get the authority transferred. It is also the case that the representative's party, for example: has voted in favour of a proposal to the municipalities to remove earmarked schemes. There has been a strong urge, for example: in the Progress Party, to keep earmarked arrangements. As for the ideology of this, I feel that the Progress Party has a view of the municipalities that are rapidly restricting local beauty, while the Left and the Government have tried to fight for a different vision, but we have lost in the Stortinget. There's no need to hide the ideological difference and the practical difference between the parties here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1168	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to have some examples of what the Government has done with regard to transferring this to local democracy. State Councils referred to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment. I would like to have some examples of this. At Stortinget, we have proposed local snowmobile and personal watercraft management, state protection measures in the field of forest, cabin construction, and, in the case of the beach zone, building bans in the 100-metre belt, and, in the case of the Planning and Building Act, changes to strengthen local democracy. All of this has been voted down by the government parties, even then, of course, by the Left. When the Council of State could not answer concretely what the Government has done, I would just ask the question: What will the Government do in this area to follow up the Sem declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1179	Firstly, the Government has already taken the initiative to move forward by setting up its own local democracy commission to strengthen the situation. What is the intersection between the representative and what I think the government has actually done is about the context in which you have national interests to care for. In the case of such national interests, the policy of the Government, submitted earlier, is clear. We trust people locally, municipally, to be able to take total responsibility in this part of the country as this question is about. However, for national reasons, especially in areas of protection related to national parks, the general framework and national grounds are. However, in a number of other areas – I have mentioned agricultural policy and aspects of environmental policy, and in particular the designation of municipalities – we are in order to release the municipalities. We're not for municipalities to be state branches, but we're not for municipalities to be so small that they're almost reduced to being big good associations. It is a very important debate that the representative travels. I would recommend him to produce an interpellation. I will contribute to it being debated with great joy and joy in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1195	We're going back to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1203	I have the following questions: ‘Refer to previous questionnaires where the Council of State has repeatedly claimed that conventional gas power stations are not profitable and that the Government cannot intervene in the investment decision for potential builders. At the same time, the Council of State says that the Government is putting up extensive research on CO2 management to enable future-oriented gas power plants to be built. Does the Council believe that CO2 management gas power plants will be more profitable for builders than conventional gas power plants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1212	The commitment to gas power stations with CO2 management is a key element of the Government's energy policy. As I have explained a number of times in Stortinget, this effort is very important to strengthen energy supply in a way that allows one to also achieve the climate objectives. I would also like to point out that the Storting mainly joined that arrangement to facilitate gas power plants with CO2 handling that were pulled up in the gas message. The overall competitive conditions in the gas power plant energy market with CO2 management and their profitability depend on a number of factors. Among other things, the greenhouse gas emissions regime is a very important element. Stricter environmental requirements will strengthen the competitive situation of gas power generation without emissions, for example: gas power plants with CO2 handling. Other options related to CO2 power plants could also contribute to improving the competitive situation of such plants in the market compared to other fossil power generation. For example, there may in the long term be possibilities for CO2 to be increased by application for increased oil extraction or other purposes. The government’s strategy to put gas power plants in place is to contribute to the development of technology and the establishment of framework conditions that together can contribute to the fastest possible realisation of gas power plants with CO2 management.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1223	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which once again shows that the government's policy – if you can call it that – is not linked in this area. I thought everyone knew that CO2 management is a very expensive solution, and that in this area for many, many years to come, technology will not be available that will be commercially sound. And as if that's not enough, there'll be a lot of energy to play at this type of cleaning. So you get a lower rate of exploitation of the gas. Has the State Council and the Government taken this into account when calculating the costs of the extraordinary emission requirements in order to achieve the climate objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1232	The government's policy is to speed up the realisation of such gas power stations, which should also be profitable. This means that we need to introduce framework conditions that stimulate both research and the development of new technologies. It will strengthen gas power plants with CO2 management competitive conditions in the market. We are betting on the whole chain, from R & D to pilot plants, and have also said that we will support full-scale plants when the technology is mature for this. The challenge is to reduce costs. Today, this is not profitable, but together with an international, committed team of countries that want to contribute with such technologies, we see that concepts that today appear unprofitable and immature can have a great potential for cost reductions over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1237	I thank the Council again for the answer. ‘Today this is not profitable’, says the Council of State. He constantly makes it appear that there is a relationship between gas prices and electricity prices that is the only reason that gas power plants are not being built in Norway. I attended last Friday at an energy conference in the NHO-Registry, where the Council of State was also in. There it became clear from the actors that this was only part of the reason. Uncertainty about the costs of future emission requirements as well as persistent negative policy signals was equally important. In addition, there was a wish from some on the infrastructure for the gas. When will the Council of State listen and take inward the signals coming from the industry, instead of working actively against it, when he really says he's in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1246	I have also participated in many energy conferences, but I hear quite different signals from those heard by the representative of Vaksdal. This is primarily a cost problem. Gas prices are high in the future, while electricity prices in the Nordic electricity market are much lower in the long term. That's why it's not profitable. With regard to the framework conditions, it was the Progress Party which, together with the Workers' Party and the Right, laid down the conditions for these conventional gas power stations, which are not being built today but on which Waksdal is very concerned to be built. He himself must therefore take responsibility for these conditions of competition, and that there is uncertainty, in that case he must also be responsible for the parties which laid down these framework conditions. I have always made it clear that this government does not want to change any of the framework conditions imposed by the Stortinget when it dealt with the matter of the three gas power plants according to conventional technology to which it is open. But until now, the government has not considered this to be profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1256	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘Contributors who are affected by a disease and who have experienced long-term hospitalisations are charged with contributions because they have not had the opportunity to associate with their children. What will the Council of State do about this, and when will it evaluate the impact of the new rules on contributions which came into force on 1 October 2003?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1265	One of the objectives of the new legislation on contributions is to encourage continued parental care by both parents and to provide the best possible conditions for the relationship between the child and the parent the child does not live with. The rules on the deduction of the contribution for expenditure incurred by the contributor are an expression of this. The involvement entails the cost to the contributor and the new legislation prioritizes the ability of the contributor to cover those costs before the levying of contributions. The deduction is therefore intended to cover the actual costs incurred by the contributor during his or her association and which the beneficiary saves at the same time. If there is no association between the children and the contributor, there will also be no deduction of costs. In such cases, the contributor must pay the entire amount of the contribution, i.e.: without deductions for association. It is therefore not right to say that the contributor is charged with the contribution due to the fact that he is not in contact with his children. The fact that no deduction is made from the contribution of non-cohabitation shall apply mutatis mutandis to all contributors who do not have relations with their children, irrespective of whether the reason for the non-cohabitation is due to the illness of the contributor or to other circumstances. This is also in line with the intention behind the rule, to which the majority of the Grand Duchy joined during the deliberation of the new rules on contributions. The size has in Innst. S. No 227 for 2002-2003 asked the Government to carry out a continuous and thorough evaluation of the impact of the new rules on contributions in line with Ot.prp. No 43 for 2000-2001, cf. Inner. O. No 127 for 2000-2001. The evaluation process requested by the Stortinget is under way. As promised, I will give the Stortinget initial feedback on the experience of this work in the budget procedure in autumn 2004. As promised in the past, a separate notification will also be submitted to the Stortinget by the end of 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1274	I thank you for your answer. In some cases, different information has been received from public authorities. There seems to be a lot of uncertainty about these new rules on contributions. There are small social security offices around, and one of the social security offices has said: ‘The new rules on contributions entered into force on 1 October last year. We now see that the rules can give unfortunate results in some cases, but the ministry cannot take account of all the eventualities when drafting legislation. The new rules cover the main cases, but one cannot imagine everything that can happen.’... ‘The Ministry is aware that the new rules have certain weaknesses’. We have also addressed this many times in the committee, and I would like to ask the Council of State whether she has any thoughts about what are the weaknesses of the new rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1286	We evaluate the new rules continuously, and I have to get back to it. The quote the representative read out, I recognize from a case that has been in Uppland. It's a very special case that I can't of course go into here. In fact, in the same newspaper post, the case manager of the county agency says that there may have been both procedural errors on the part of the social security office and that he may have been misinformed. If that is the case, if that is the point of departure for the question, I know that it is for the handling of complaints right now. So we're going to hope that it'll work out, if there's been a mistake from the county strike office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1293	There are opportunities to apply for debt cancellation, but the rules are very strict. Clearly, it becomes problematic if you have not received information along the way, nor have you received demands in the course of the process, that you are in a situation where you are ill and you are recovering from contributions. Will the State Council look at this and the rules around this to pay off contributions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1298	We are not looking specifically at individual matters, but we are evaluating the entire contribution code and will come back if there are differences, or unintended side effects, as we have said. I think I would like to make it clear that it must and should be possible to change contributions if association for different reasons does not take place. There may be very many reasons why association does not take place. But it is important to follow the procedure, and you have to have advance notice. You don't have to process contributions. In this one case there may have been a lack of information. I would like to remind you that in such cases the parties can of course find solutions. They may decide for themselves how to pay contributions which are higher in the absence of association during a period of illness, if that is the reason. Each family can also arrange – if they want to. But we're evaluating, and we're evaluating all of the sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1307	Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1312	Questions 9 and 10 have already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1319	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘According to NRK Finnmark, the pilots of SAS are more likely to breach flight safety regulations when operating in North Norway than when operating in South Norway. In a recent study of SAS pilots, it was found that they more frequently committed deliberate deviations from flight regulations when flying in North Norway than when flying in South Norway. What will the Council of State do to ensure that passengers can be sure that aviation safety is as good in North Norway as in South Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1328	I would like to inform you at the outset that the question is assumed to have its background in NRK Finnmark's information concerning an anonymous survey of SAS pilots conducted in 2000, i.e. four years back in time. All commercial aircraft operations in Norway are conducted in accordance with rules and procedures approved or accepted by the aviation authorities. Deviations from the normal procedures in this context are not necessarily associated with lower safety. For example, I might mention that due to local conditions such as reduced visibility, low cloud cover, turbulence, strong side winds and smooth runways, the pilot can raise the minimum height, increase the minimum speed or select a sentence point that provides optimal braking distance. The Air Safety Authority considers this to be a positive deviation that improves safety. The Air Safety Authority further considers that, inter alia: weather conditions and topography contribute to increasing the alertness of pilots. It is also known that SAS uses well-qualified and highly experienced pilots in its operations in North Norway. On this basis, I have no basis for considering the safety of SAS in its operations in North Norway, which is worse than the SAS has in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1340	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am not reassured. Does not the Council of State share my concern when it comes to taking more chances north of the country than you take south of the country? It can't be random. The study is four years old – I'm aware of it. But I wish the Council of State could help to get a similar study done both among Braathens’ pilots and among the United Nations pilots. I think that the debate this information has created in North Norway, actually requires that there be some grip, so that you can look at it. Will the Council of State take an initiative to look at both Braathens and Onions, and perhaps SAS again, to get to grips with the essence of this information that NRK Finnmark produced.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1347	I take it as a matter of course that security should be equal everywhere in the country. Different topographical and weather conditions, as I mentioned instead, must be taken into account. We have the Air Safety Authority, which oversees that safety is ensured both in relation to aerodromes and in relation to operations in the various air carriers. The aeroplanes of SAS and the other major carriers have installed equipment to detect deviations from the procedures to be followed by the companies both during take-off and landing at individual aerodromes. Under the commercial aviation rules, it is the company itself that is responsible for the compliance of the pilots with the procedures. We must not forget that! It is the company itself, when reviewing data from such registration systems as SAS have, that can verify and assess whether any non-compliance threatens or improves safety. It's very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1354	I think I must remind you that in North Norway we have had two tragic air accidents that still characterize people. When you bring forward the Air Safety Authority, the Air Safety Authority is exactly the tool that the Council of State and the State have for carrying out the type of investigations that I am now asking for. I think it would be sad if the Council of State could not take the initiative to follow this up and look at whether the same unculture that we have seen from SAS pilots, also applies in Ontøe and Braathens. If it doesn't and this is getting better, it's great. Then we'll be happy for it. But if there's an unculture, I think the travelers, both north and south, have a right to know about it. State councils must be behind passenger safety requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1359	It is quite right that the Air Safety Authority is responsible for overseeing. The responsibility for security lies with each company, and it is at the airport. The oversight is responsible for ensuring that safety is adequately ensured, and so it does. I have no indication that the Air Safety Authority is not supervising safety. This means that the Air Safety Authority carries out the necessary reviews all the time. All the time, they keep the supervision needed to ensure that both companies and airports follow the rules and laws that exist in this area, that the procedures to be followed are followed. I take it as a matter of course that security is as good as it can be at all. This is supervised by the Air Safety Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1369	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the overall public transport sector, the taxi industry carries out a significant part of the transport work. Drying is an important part of the collective offer. For disabled people in particular, the taxi industry is of great importance in view of the flexibility and ease of use of taxis. In Hedmark, taxis are widely used for the transportation of school children. Does the Council agree that taxis should be defined as public transport?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1378	Drosje stands in many ways in an intermediate position between what we traditionally define as public transport and individual transport. Drosions are characterised primarily by meeting individual travel needs, where the customer determines time and distance, as opposed to regular services, where private operators or public authorities collectively coordinate common travel needs, but where no individual user determines time and distance. Individuals have to adapt to the published offer. Often the taxis are treated in a non-discriminatory manner with regular means of transport in traffic, e.g. by giving them the opportunity to use collective fields. I believe that this is quite correct in view of the functioning of the taxis, and will adhere to these principles when establishing a new sign for road traffic, which is now being consulted. The government’s policy to improve the accessibility of urban public transport will therefore also benefit the taxi industry. To the extent that the taxi industry participates in school and regular services, either as an under-carrier for scheduled services or in my own direction, I have no difficulty in seeing the taxis as a useful and necessary addition to the traditional public transport. Otherwise, they have important tasks in the field of sick transport and transport of PRM, TT transport, and reduce the need for regular services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1387	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The background to my question is that in District Norway it is not possible to have a regular transport that satisfies the residents, and we want people to live where they want to. Then there must be flexibility. Drozjer is the option of which District Norway has the greatest joy. Then I think it comes with some obligations, including those of the state, to give the taxis the same possibilities as the public transport. For example, taxis driving disabled persons carrying TT driving or schoolchildren should be subject to an absolute drop in toll. Can the Council confirm that the taxis are public transport and need to have the same framework conditions, namely to release tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1396	With regard to the exact function of taxis in relation to other public transport, trials have been carried out in recent years and different ordering arrangements have been put in place to ensure that the customer base has been too low to have large scheduled buses. Toll payment exemption is a wish that emerges each time a concrete toll project is considered. It looks at whether there are specific user groups to be excluded. If you first choose to look at that challenge, I think it should be done in a principle round, where you look at whether there's more reason to exempt taxis than other user groups. Obviously, the taxis will have different functions, whether you view them as a collective offer or not. When I, as an individual, choose to take a taxi, it is a question of whether that taxi trip should be exempted from tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1403	I interpret the council so that she is willing to look at this, because it is actually very varied how the taxis are treated in any application for exemption from tolls. So if the Council of State wants to look at what they've done in Sweden, they've gone in there to exempt the taxis from tolls. I therefore ask the Council of State to look to their colleagues in Sweden and learn a little from them. Then we might be able to solve this, because I think a lot of the problem is exactly what a taxi is. The council itself said it was a middle status. I get that very well. But in general, the alternative is a private car. In fact, I think that taxis are much higher than private cars, and therefore the taxis should have the status of public transport and thus also have the same framework conditions as public transport in cities and districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1408	I understand the question, but it's a difficult question to say something about on a general basis. In Sweden, there are not so many toll projects. They don't have the big tradition right there, so I don't know if it's Sweden you should watch to learn. We are more likely to experience that the Swedes are coming to us to see how we have designed our toll projects. Questions related to this will depend on what we want to achieve by exempting some groups from toll payment. I don't want to say on a general basis that we should exempt taxis from toll payment, but it is a question we should periodically sit down and consider, and perhaps especially in relation to some projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1420	‘Information about who passes bombings and uses AutoPASS as means of payment is provided to anyone who has his car number and name. This leads to major problems for, for example: persons who are harassed by former roommates or spouses and who can only call AutoPASS to find out if they have passed. He/she will then be informed of when and where he/she has passed. Will the Council of State ensure that this practice ceases and that such information is not provided?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1427	The answer is yes. In the light of recent feedback on the provision of pass-by information, the Road Directorate will now clarify to the toll companies the requirements for the provision of such information. It's only the balance of the piece you need to get over the phone. However, drivers may have an interest in knowing when the vehicle has passed or is registered at the toll station in order to check that the correct number of passages has been charged to the account. In order to obtain information about the passage, the person must either meet with the toll company and legitimise or send a letter asking for information about the passage, which will be answered. These procedures ensure that we will not experience any more such unfortunate episodes as the representative Svendsen points out. The Road Directorate will send letters to all toll companies in a short time with these clarifications. I also want to ask the Road Directorate to follow up the case to ensure that these procedures are followed by all toll companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1434	In these NTP times and in the budget hours that are coming, I have to say that it is rare that I have been as pleased with a response from the Minister of Transport as it is now. I guess there's no reason to go on with an additional question, but in addition to what I had on my question about cohabitants and former spouses, I just want to say that there are also opportunities to identify whether people are at home, to possibly commit criminal acts, such as burglaries. I am very pleased with the response from the Council of State, and I hope that in the future we will be equally satisfied with the treatment of the NTP and the future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1441	If the Progress Party supports the Government in the submitted by NTP, this would be very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1446	I can't promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1454	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Akershuset will in the years to come have a large increase in the youth school between 16 and 19 years of age, which will take place in secondary school. Does the Council of State believe that the income system provides a satisfactory basis for Akershus to meet this growth and investment need and provide an equivalent offer for the pupils in relation to the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1463	The objective of the income system is to achieve a distribution of the grants which help to enable municipalities and counties to provide equivalent services to their inhabitants. To achieve this objective, the allocation of the framework grant takes into account differences in the costs and differences in tax revenue of municipalities and counties. The criteria of the income system capture the variation in the pupils’ development between county municipalities. This means that Akershus, through the income system, is fully compensated for an pupils’ development that is stronger than the national average. This compensation also occurs from 2003, the same year as the growth of the population occurs. It was a change that this government made from 2003. The counties together will receive a significant student growth in the coming years. Compensation for general population growth through increased income frameworks is a budgetary issue, not a question of the design of the income system. For 2004, the counties grew more in free income than the municipalities as a result of the strong growth in the number of 16- to 18-year-olds. The budget for 2005 will also take account of the strong student trend in county municipalities. In principle, the cost equalisation of the income system includes both operating costs and capital costs. However, in recent years the focus has been on whether the income system captures the increased cost of capital as a result of strong population growth. In October 2003, the Government set up the Income System Committee. In the mandate, the selection was specifically asked to assess the capital costs of municipalities and the extent to which municipalities are currently receiving grants in line with the expenditure needs. As a basis for this work, it shall include, inter alia: a study by the SSB on the cost of capital in school buildings – the project «Analysis of consumption of capital and investment in municipal school buildings». A sample has also been set up to assess current municipal property management and the need for changes. There should be contact between these two samples, so that the issue of construction is properly addressed both by the Income System Committee and by the municipal property management sample. The Committee of the Income Systems shall present its statement of vote by 1 July 2005. So we have changes in the income system where the criteria per. the current date is not fully reflected in the settlement of the hospital reform. Once the hospital reform effects have been fully taken into account, so that the income system criteria turn out, Akershus will appear as one of the largest winners in terms of an increased share of the money transferred to the county municipalities. However, there will also be a transitional period for 2004 and 2005 following the hospital reform. Some of the same effects, but on a much smaller scale, will also happen when you're done with the move for the other problems that have been taken out later, rushes and child protection. The student rating criteria of the income system will be much stronger in the future, as it will be the main task for the income system to finance. Akershus will, through the income system criteria, be able to achieve greater economic elimination in the coming years, when we have completed the transitional period and have been drawn out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1477	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understood that the Council of State is generally satisfied with the stand today, but she has promises of a brighter future. I would like to point out that the immediate need in Akershu County related to the sharp increase in high school pupils, far above the national average, will require around 1000 new places per year. years in the coming years. This is in a situation where Akershus has the lowest income per person. is resident in relation to the rest of the country. Akershus predicts that it will have a significantly less increase in free income than in costs related to secondary education, and I will then include both operating and capital costs. Without an improvement in the income base, this – which is made clear to me at least – will mean large cuts in other services, or negatively affect the offer and scope of secondary school. Pending changes in the income system, is the Council willing to use discretionary means in relation to a situation such as Akershus? It must be reasonable to use low total resources per farm. citizens should be assessed in particular in the allocation of discretionary means, and in particular when we see this in combination with major growth challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1486	There is no basis for concluding that an income system is generally satisfied when the Government has just reduced a new income sample. Public authorities are not reduced because they are satisfied with the situation. It is not necessary to employ people and spend money on that kind of thing if you do not believe that there is a basis for looking things over again. In 2004, Akershus County received 10 million. kr in additional discretionary funds, justified by increased capital costs resulting from a strong pupils’ development. It is clear that in the Ministry of Local Affairs we have a focus on that very question also in relation to the distribution of judgement, but that is the total sum of money and the distribution between primary municipalities and county municipalities and the growth of the free incomes that are in a way the two most crucial things for the district of Akershu, not the distribution through the income system. So when we're done with the redistribution that happens after the hospital reform, it's Akershu County Municipality that will appear to be the one who gets the most joy from what happened to the redistribution of the funds that the county municipality has. The same applies, provided that the Storting does not take unrealistic decisions on how to withdraw the draft, the intoxication and the protection of children. I remember that Stortinget has twice instructed me to have individual negotiations with the county councils about the extraction. If we were to do that, and based on what the county councils that are dissatisfied do, it would hit Akershu County.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1493	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Of course, I have a positive attitude to the scheme, which means that a growing area like Akershus will come out positively in the years to come. But, as I said, the immediate need is linked to the pupils' growth in higher education, and I also interpret the Council of State positively in that sense. When she refers to the increase in beauties in 2004, it was a small amount, and then I say ‘a small amount’ also because Akershus has received a very small amount of these discretionary funds in previous years. I also interpret the State Council positively in the sense that she will also have assessments of the student growth in the counties related to the assessment of the use of discretionary means in the future. Then we're going to have hopes for the review of the income system. As I said, it is positive that growth areas are getting higher on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1502	It has been the government's ambition to improve growth areas. That's why we made a change in the income system that at least goes under the slogan "They said it wasn't possible, but it was possible if you just wanted" – since it was a proposal that had been made twice before and the Storting and previous governments thought it was impossible to do it. Now we count the high school students from the same time the money comes, from the same year of income, and we don't have a two-year delay that it's been at worst. This means that from 2003 onwards there will be a disbursement of operational funds within the total free-range package. Then it is important to stress that precisely because of the evolution of pupils, the growth of the free incomes of the county municipalities was significantly higher than the growth of the free incomes of the primary municipalities, because in the government's arrangement, and even more so after the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party, we have a large growth in free income that goes far beyond what demographic changes require in order to maintain an offer in line with, among other things. educational development for 2004. We'll get back to 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1515	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1518	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In the Eastlanden newspaper of 24 March 2004, we can, among other things: read about an action against the Eastern Region. This is on the fiveth anniversary of Stortingen's decision to expand the field. Can the Council of State confirm that the expansion will go its way, and that we will have a field of shooting and drill, as the intention has always been?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1527	The size decided in 1999 to set up the Eastern Region. Construction work was started on 31 October 2002 with Defence Building The Østerdalen development project as responsible for the planning and implementation of the project. According to the decision of the Storting in the examination of the implementation proposal in 2002, parts of the field are to be ready for use in 2005 and mainly fully developed in 2008. The completion and start of use of the field is otherwise a prerequisite for the corresponding resolution of the Brain Shooting Field. There have been no changes in the operational needs that indicate that there should be any reason to change the progress of the development or other plans for the field. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Government recently submitted a roll-out proposal on the further modernisation of the defence. It is underlined here that the Base Østerdalen in the future will still be one of the two geographical centres of gravity around which the Army's location will be centered. The People's Action Stop Region East and Nature and Youth also last year had actions similar to those recently held, but without the removal of the activists. However, in order not to continue to delay new actions and thus slow down Storting's assumptions, actionists cannot get the pace of the construction work conducted. It is the responsibility of the police to ensure that illegal actions do not prevent the implementation of lawful decisions. The chief of police in Hedmark has therefore issued a driving ban to the public in the region field ‘to ensure the implementation of the planned and adopted construction in the RØ’. As a result of the ban, the lenient in Åvre ordered that everyone in the prohibitive zone be removed by noon. 14:00 on March 23rd, which was the day of the action. This did not happen, and a dozen actionists were therefore removed by the police the following day, so that the contractor's legitimate business in the field could continue. Defence construction and Åvomt municipality now have good progress and a good process in the planning of the defence activities in and around the establishment of the region field. The conclusion of this is that the project is on track and that, in the light of the decision of the Stortingen in 1999 and beyond, defence construction will adhere to the development timetable, so that the defence can start to use parts of this important and modern field of shooting and practice from 2005 as foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1540	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was the way I hoped and not least expected it to be. The question really comes up with a confirmation from the Council of State that the work is done as planned and that the date of completion is the same as before. Because the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs may not be 100 pst. familiar with all the details, I won't ask anything any more. I'm happy with the answer, and that's exactly what I expected to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1549	I just want to stress that it is such that you believe that you are on time now, but that you do not have time to carry out the project. This means that it is essential that this is implemented without delay now, in order to reach 2005 levels. The delay that came after last year's protests, which was not so great because they happened mostly at the same time as the public holiday, has been resumed. So you're working on a bomb to get ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1554	That being the case, it is no. 1 completed on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-31.ana.ud1495e1565	There is no record.
