ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e27	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Pål Kårbø, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e53	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik State Council Knut Arild Hareide The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e69	I have a question for the Prime Minister. A unanimous increase has established guidelines for arms exports, but it is the government’s responsibility to manage the legislation and make the specific decisions. Yesterday, it was claimed that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party had given green light to the decision to lend military laser equipment to the United States. That's not right, and I'm glad the Foreign Minister cancelled these false claims last night. Norway has lent military equipment to a war of which we are opponents. It supports the need for better procedures on these types of issues. Last year, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV promoted proposals to establish a separate inspection body for the export of weapons. What is the Prime Minister's assessment of the proposal for a separate arms export control body?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e78	Of course, the government takes responsibility for the decisions we have taken. We have usually never required a retail declaration of exchange of material between NATO allies. Nor have we done so in this case. This was as well-known material that was borrowed before the war in Iraq. To Stoltenberg's question: I would like to discuss with Stortinget the transparency arrangements of the Stortinget on such questions, if the Stortinget so wishes. I would like to remind you that the Government delivers an annual paper on the sale and export of weapons to other countries. Loans are made to a large extent, often also by minors. We're willing to see if one in this message can also include more information about loans. But if you want to go to a detailed information, one in practice will introduce a licensing obligation, which may have unfortunate sides. In the case of a possible control body or a sample, SV's head of radio said today that she wants it, among other things. in order to have a public debate, and then obviously in advance of individual cases. I must strongly warn against that. It will deal with relations with other countries and with allies and will, of course, be able to reveal their shortcomings in defence. One can ask the question: if Norway, for example, Should we be in a crisis situation, would we like to see what shortcomings we have in our defence, and where do we have to ask for loans from others? It also has one side to the defence industry in terms of sales, because it would create uncertainty for buyers whom they would hardly accept, if one were to discuss in advance in a major body and – as the SV leader says – also publicly whether to sell. So it's not enough that SV now has realized that they have to state the resistance to NATO, they also have to understand what it means in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e87	I fully understand that there can be no publicity about each decision. Nor is it appropriate for the Storting to deal with each individual decision on the sale or loan of weapons. However, precisely because there can be no publicity about each decision and the Storting cannot deal with each decision, it is all the more important that the control and transparency of the decisions be optimised. We have a parallel to the secret services. We have a separate control body for the secret services, precisely to ensure even more that the legislation is complied with, that the necessary judgement is exercised, and that it has the necessary anchoring. It is a similar idea that underpins the proposal that was promoted last year by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party: precisely because there can be no full publicity about all individual decisions, it is important that we have control bodies that take into account the considerations and the rules laid down by the Stortinget Code. That is the background to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e92	An ex-post check will of course not be as problematic as what I said about an organ that will give advice to the Government in advance and create a public debate, as Kristin Halvorsen said. I understood that it was – at least from her side – meant as a body that would give advice in advance and initiate a public debate. It will lead completely wrong out of farms. I am sure that the Workers' Party understands whether SV has not understood this. We like to discuss with Stortinget arrangements that can increase transparency, but I just want to make it clear that in terms of lending, this is very extensive and, to some extent, also of a lesser nature, and it can be very detailed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e99	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e102	I'm glad of what the Prime Minister is saying. After all, the proposal that Jens Stoltenberg refers to was promoted by the three parties last year and voted down here in the Chamber. Now you might see the importance of having done what we asked for, namely to have this investigated by the Government, so that you could make a good proposal for the Stortinget that everyone could live with. And I don't think the Prime Minister should use the expression so unproblematic, because I think that this can just lead to the reverse, namely that these issues don't become as problematic as they really are, by having a control function that can notify the Storting if you think it's something that could conflict with the regulation, or that should have been further illuminated. I believe that the Government here should view this as positive and confirm that it is appropriate to address this issue and make a proposal to the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e107	I would like to remind you once again that we are reporting to Stortinget regarding the sale and export of weapons, through an annual bigotage report, so that is where the Stortinget in plenary has the opportunity to test the policy. There is a limited amount of lending, but we will consider whether one can increase the information also in terms of lending. As I have been informed by the Defence Department, this is very extensive and detailed, and it is happening regularly. In addition to having a separate body, we have to assess, but it is a crucial difference whether there is a body to discuss individual matters in advance, as SV has given the impression, or whether there should be a body to evaluate what has been done in retrospect, as I understand the Workers' Party's opinion. And if the proposers have completely different opinions on this, at least it is useful to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e113	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e116	Throughout yesterday, it was claimed by the government that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party had given a clear signal to this loan. For the Progress Party, of course, I can confirm that if we had been asked, whether it was official, formal or informal, we would have given our support to the loan. But it has come to the debate that it is believed that because some representatives of the Stortinget are being asked, it is the same as the Stortinget being informed and having given its permission. I would like the Prime Minister to confirm that this is not the situation, and that the Prime Minister assures the Storting that if it ever comes to saying that this is approved by the Storting, it should either be on the basis of a formal decision in the Chamber or on the basis of a clearly stated position in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee – that any consultation with individual representatives can never replace the formal information of the Stortinget and the real decision-making decision in the Stortinget. I would like that confirmation from the Prime Minister. And I guess it wouldn't have been so stupid to complain about what happened yesterday, when the Progress Party and the Workers' Party were wrongly involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e121	This was the foreign minister's response last night. Neither he nor I nor other members of the government have said that the Stortinget or the Advance Party and the Workers' Party have given the green light for this. On the other hand, the Minister of Foreign Affairs made it quite clear that it is of course the responsibility of the Government. We know that in case the Storting only gives a clear signal through consultations in the bodies of Storting, as it is called, or in the Parliament. Of course, talking to individual representatives never replaces it. We are fully aware of that, and the Foreign Minister clearly told us about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e126	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e129	Yes, SV believes that there should be much greater transparency on these issues, not in the sense that in a public debate, every single loan of military material between NATO countries should be approved, but in the sense that the principles are transparent and open to debate. What SV is asking about is why this case was not taken up directly and in transparency with Stortinget. So it was a situation around the fact that the United States went to war against Iraq on 20 March 2003, where, of course, it would mean considerable public attention if it were known that while the Prime Minister was standing on the pulpit of the Stortinge on 21 March and stated that this was a war that Norway thought was not in line with international law, Norwegian laser meters to help the United States hit its bombing targets in Iraq were in place in Kuwait. Did Bondevik know that these laser meters were in place in Kuwait at that time?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e136	I knew of course that these were lent to the United States before the war. We did not ask – something we never do to allies – for an end-user statement. I see that SV has gone in for it. I agree with those who have said that it will be in practice to notify Norway out of NATO, because we know that our allies will never, of course, accept it. So SV has to innovate that they have to accept Norwegian NATO membership if they're going into a government – it doesn't seem they've done the right thing yet. Secondly, I have to say that I am a little surprised at the SV's behaviour in this matter. Because there was a public debate on a similar matter in March and in April last year. SV's defence spokesman, Kjetil Bjørklund, had a written question-and-answer exchange with the Foreign Minister twice, in March and in April last year, one before and one after the war had broken out. And SV didn't persecute it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs explained what is Norwegian policy. SV did not prosecute the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e143	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e146	I am pleased that the Prime Minister now says that the Government has not informed the Storting in the way that is correct in these kinds of matters. Because there is a problem that there is uncertainty about that question, both in terms of whether there is a single party that has received information from the Government, and in terms of the fact that, in yesterday's NATO debate, the Minister of Foreign Affairs actually gave the impression that answers to written questions were to be an adequate information between government and big business. When creating the kind of uncertainty about the information flow between government and collapse, could it not be a good solution to set up a control committee in this area that could have just been a sensible information channel between collapse and government beyond the two formal information channels we have in this type of context, namely an open-ended and the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee? Does the Prime Minister not see that a control committee in this context could be a good link between government and big business?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e153	I have answered questions from the representative Stoltenberg. A body that will discuss individual matters in advance with regard to the loan or sale of weapons, I would warn against. It will be to mix the roles between government and magnification. If the Government needs advice, of course, a person can use the extended Foreign Affairs Committee, and I would also like to consider other forms that the Workers' Party has requested. I don't know how to perceive Marit Arnstad's first sentence, that we haven't properly informed. It has not been common to go to Stortinget with such individual things, and we really had no reason to believe that was necessary either, because SVs Bjørklund had asked two questions about a similar case, which also applied to Iraq, and it was not persecuted into the hall here, something the Stortinge could have done, of course, if you thought it was right. I also note that the leader of the Central Party, Åslaug Haga, 17 March 2003, three days before the war broke out, said: As long as we have a weapons industry in Norway and do not want to put it down, we must be able to sell weapons to our closest allies. That's what we had to be able to build on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e164	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e167	I have a question for the Prime Minister about the non-governmental organisations, the third sector, for which the Prime Minister often speaks hotly. Voluntary organisations and humanitarian organisations have received significant revenues from automated gambling for many years. For 30 years, the rescue company has only had billing bags and even more modern machines as its main source of income. The majority of the population, all except the Advance Party, have decided to give monopoly to Norwegian Tipping from 1 January this year. This was supported by the Red Cross and the Rescue Company as the largest, with protests from hundreds of smaller, non-governmental organisations and sports teams that thus lost income. Now the President of the Rescue Company, Magnus Stangeland, and the Secretary-General, Monica Kristensen Solås, have come to terms with this and in a letter asked that the decision to give monopoly to Norsk Tipping be repealed, and that the decision be reversed, because they are going to risk losing one third of their income next year. Will the Prime Minister suspend implementation and reverse this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e179	We do not intend to do that, because we do not agree with ESA's assessment that Norsk Tipping cannot be granted the exclusive right to operate vending machines in Norway. The background for this is that this had a discoloration. And I also hope the representative Hagen is taking over the significant social problem we've had with gambling addiction. The vending machines, more than any other legal gambling or lottery in Norway, are the things that now create great gambling addiction. This is a big problem for young people and families. This had to come under a completely different control, and going back to the release system we had, I hope no one in Stortinget will be in charge. ESA has disagreed with the way we've organized it. We do not agree with the premise or the conclusion to this. We believe it is right to try this case before the Court of Justice, and we will show that similar gambling monopolies are established in EU countries such as Sweden and Finland. It is not that we in Norway immediately speak against ESA, should flatten ourselves and say that OK, then we have to accept it or postpone the implementation of the scheme we have agreed to and have the Stortingen join. We think this is such a significant problem today that we intend to get this under control, and we will try on the good proposal that the bulk of the population is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e188	It is okay that the Prime Minister reads an answer to a question that was not asked, I have no problem with that. But I didn't ask any questions about ESA at all, I didn't touch ESA. I talked about the Rescue Company, which is in great fear of losing one third of its revenues next year and had to complete large parts of its operations along the coast, and about other non-governmental organisations losing their revenues. That's the issue. Otherwise, I'll just be allowed to say that I'm also deeply concerned about gambling addiction. It's just that a monopoly has nothing to do with it. It is fully possible for the Government to establish guidelines for the types of vending machines, how to deploy them, when they are to be used – completely independent of the operator of the vending machine. The regulation that makes sense to counteract gambling dependence, if any, can be made in completely different ways. Is the Prime Minister also aware, when he himself brings in ESA, that there is a risk of billions of dollars in the matter raised by ESA before the Court – and it is soon only the Government who believes Norway will win it – because the Government will not listen to the common sense of the organizations?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e197	I actually answered Mr. Hagen's question, because it was whether or not we wanted to postpone the arrangement. And I said no to that. So he got the answer. He cannot turn away by saying that he did not take up ESA, for everyone knows that it was ESA that was behind the rescue company's letter. It was not to read up from a script written in advance, it was actually an answer to Hagen's question. I know the background of the question and therefore chose to comment on it. I am pleased that the representative Hagen obviously does not want to go back to the old scheme, where there was a kind of release for this, which created an uncontrollable situation and a great deal of gambling addiction. That has to be the starting point. We believe that the system we have set up is so good – and it has parallels in Sweden and Finland, which are EU countries – that we have no reason to be flattened for an ESA opinion at once. Of course, we consider all the questions raised by the representative Hagen – the question of compensation, that organisations should be kept harmless. If we do not agree with the EFTA Court, we must find other ways of regulating this, for the same social policy purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e208	There will be follow-up questions - Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e211	The Prime Minister refers twice to Sweden. The EU has just sent a sharp letter to Sweden saying that this is contrary to EU regulations. The Prime Minister also refers to social policy in the case of gambling addiction. The ESA opinion states that it cannot be seen that gambling dependence is necessarily reduced by the introduction of monopolies. Now that we are also familiar with the Norwegian Typing strategy, which is to increase the number of players to double and increase turnover, my question is: Does the Prime Minister think monopoly is an instrument that reduces gambling dependence? And doesn't he see that there seems something self-contradicting with the increase in the number of players and the increase in turnover on the one hand and the decrease in the number of game addicts on the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e218	We've had that debate before, but we can repeat it. The majority has agreed that a monopoly is the best way to regulate it. We've got a majority for that. And I guess that's because the Stortinget thought there was a good way to control this. I think that Norsk Typing, who also has experience from other big games, is in charge of this, gives the best control. That's why we want to fight for it. We are also aware that the European Union has sent a so-called sharp letter to Sweden, but this may indicate that we are getting our closest neighbours as allies in this fight. I do not have the position of the European Union and the EFTA bodies that we should be flattening as soon as they disagree with us. I have not understood that either should be the position of Stortinge. We have to stand up and fight for what we think is right, and then we'll see if we win. And if we're not going to do that, we're going to have to consider other ways to get as good a control as possible with this. Because I don't think anyone should underestimate the problem of gambling addiction today represents for many people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e227	Magnar Lund Bergo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e230	The government fully supports the initiatives taken to control the problem of gambling addiction. An industry that was out of control in 2001, with a turnover of DKK 8 billion on vending machines, has grown in three years to a turnover of more than NOK 22 billion. The private operators in the market operating these vending machines do all they can to doubt the settlement and the guarantee given by the accumulation and government to voluntary teams and organisations and humanitarian organisations that they will continue to have a level of revenue as they did in 2001. Can the Prime Minister confirm that this agreement is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e237	Yes, we have not changed that agreement, as far as I am aware, and I am pleased with SV's support in this matter. It shows, as I assumed, that we have a majority in the Grand Duchy to try to preserve the system that has been adopted and that I believe represents the best form of control.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e242	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e245	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. On 8 February 1996, the Stortinget had five proposals from the SV on arms exports. One proposal was: ‘The granting of an export licence for the export of military materials shall require the submission of a certified end-user statement with a re-export clause irrespective of the country to which it is exported. This applies to exports of final products and to exports of parts of weapons.» This proposal was put together by the SV, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party on 8 February 1996. Today Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik believes that the Christian People's Party voted in favour of Norwegian NATO withdrawal at this time. I would like the Prime Minister's explanation for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e260	Yes, we have come to the recognition, with the government experience we have, that this will be extremely unwise. I also believe that the Kristin Halvorsen will come to that realization if she, for whom she is now in a violent state, becomes a member of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e265	I think maybe the prime minister should be dampening a couple of dots about what's going on in arms exports. Both yesterday and today, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister have almost produced it as if this were a sort of expedition case for the Norwegian authorities. Is it really that Norway has no discretion? And how could it be that many bells have been ringing in the defense and saying that one was dependent on approval in the United Nations and by the Norwegian authorities for this loan to be carried out? Is there greater political discretion in Defense than in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e270	No, it's not. I say, of course, this is not a simple matter. And these are dilemmas. I recognize that openly. That is why we are dealing with this quite carefully. There was no despatch case where it was just putting a stamp. I can assure you. Norway's position on the war was and is clear: we did not support it, it did not have a sufficient basis for international law. And this is made clear to the top of the United States, face to face with the president, both before and after the war broke out. There should be no doubt about that. I have also said – in brackets – clearly about what I think about the US prison treatment in a prison in Iraq. No despatch case! We evaluated it carefully, but we have assessed it in the same way as other countries did, among other things. Sweden, as on 20 March, the day the war broke out, said that they would not stop their arms exports to the United States and the United Kingdom – Sweden, which is not even NATO!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e277	There will be three follow-up questions – first Kjetil Bjørklund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e280	Let us state that the issue of the loan of laser target lighting equipment is not known to Stortinget and as such is the government's obvious responsibility. So the defence chief command was occupied by the formal and expected, according to the NRK yesterday, a national approval and a UN resolution. In the evening post today, an e-mail from the Defence Logistics Organisation is referred to the Rome-based technical workshop, which refers to a decision in the Stortinget on 6 March 2003 that this equipment can be borrowed. Is there a decision in the Grand Duchy of March 6? And in what way was the Chief of Defense made aware of this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e289	I do not have a quick overview that there was a decision in Stortinget. We have not asked the Stortinget about this or other individual matters, but we have built on the incorporated guidelines and the practices that existed. And I think it's very important that it is maintained. This is a relationship of trust between allies, and there will be major problems in our defence cooperation if the Stortinget is to decide on individual matters in advance – whether it be sales and exports or loans. I think that's not going to work at all, and it'll go to our position in NATO loose. But the representative Bjørklund himself had a written question exchange with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on a similar matter. SV got an answer, like the answer we gave in this laser case. SV did not prosecute the matter into the storeroom – one had all the possibilities if one wanted it. Therefore, it is strange that one of them is now so busy that it should have been in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e298	Jens Stoltenberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e301	I would like to commend the Prime Minister for his clear recognition that he has gained experience which means that he is now opposed to proposals he was in favour of in 1996 and which he believes today are equivalent to the Norwegian statement of NATO. I think that's good. What is not good is that the Prime Minister continues a hacking on SV that I believe is out of proportion to the recognition he himself has obviously received. On many points SV is significantly more responsible in opposition than the Christian People's Party was in opposition. So they're in opposition to the Christian People's Party in the opposition for when it comes to arms exports, without me at any time accusing Kjell Magne Bondevik of being NATO opponents or outrageous in security policy. We also belong to the Swedish Ministry of Finance. SV spends less money in opposition than the Christian People's Party spent in opposition. I therefore have every reason to believe that it will be very easy to cooperate with SV in a government, and I believe that the new recognition of the Christian People's Party means that they should run into criticism of opposition parties, especially because they went further in several areas when they themselves were in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e308	That was a strange question. I thought this was a question time, and not a nice post that Stoltenberg could have held at the SV's national meeting, to which he will be invited. [[Laughter]] Now I understand that SV has become very responsible in economic policy and in foreign and security policy. I have also said that I do not think it takes many minutes in the government negotiations – if they are able to do so – before SV has stated very many of its positions, whether it concerns gas power or the EEA or monetary policy, etc. It's going to be very interesting to follow this development. But the characteristic that they should be more responsible than the Christian People's Party when they are in opposition is, of course, far from reality. I would like to sit down with Stoltenberg and go through both foreign and security policy and economic policy and prove what he said.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e315	The Prime Minister chooses even if he wants to respond – just to mention it. Åslaug Haga – to the last question of follow-up in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e320	The central party believes it is legitimate to have a weapons industry. But it demands that one has reasonable information channels between collapse and government, and there are precisely these information channels that the Government has now created uncertainty about. That the flow of information is not working is illustrated by the fact that, in the Question Time on 26 March 2003, I asked the Prime Minister: ‘although he can also assure the Storting that the aid will not have any elements of military or civil military components that could be understood as supporting American-led activities in Iraq, during or after the acts of war’. A very concrete question, to which the Prime Minister was unable to answer. There is a clear indication that the information between the magnification and the government is not working in these cases. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he does not see that a control body in this context will be able to operate in the same way as the EEA Committee and is therefore very wise to prevent the kind of misunderstandings that my question illustrates on 26 March 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e333	I've answered that up to two times before. We're willing to consider mechanisms for the flow of information between government and growth, but here it's very important to have clarity in the premises. Does the Central Party consider this to be a body that enters into and advises or takes a stand on individual cases before a decision is taken in the Defence or Government, or is it an ex post control body? That's a very crucial difference. I hope that the Center Party, which has government experience, does not lay down on the line that one should go in and do this in advance and initiate a public debate, as Kristin Halvorsen has said, and thus put our allies in a hopeless situation. I think Haga understands that with the experience she has. But the representative Haga spoke so late on 17 March 2003 that we have to be able to sell weapons to our closest allies, and this was based on the Iraq case. I think it's a little strange how the Center Party acts afterwards. But information: Yes, as long as it does not damage the interests of Norway or our allies. But of course, we can't expose it if a defense in one of our allied countries lacks anything, or we should do it in another situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e342	Let's go to the next main question – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e345	Based on the answers that are now given, I think there's a need for a certain stage shift. I intend to ask the Minister for the Environment a question so that he will have the opportunity to participate in his first spontaneous Question Time. The government has long notified a notice of cultural memory protection. That's good, because we haven't achieved the bet in this area that the area deserves. The yield of the Cultural Memory Fund is at rest on the ground, and private experience being met with completely unreasonable demands for the preservation of cultural memories. In Trøndelag we have just had an example where an individual has been met with a claim to secure a cultural memory for NOK 100 000, after he himself told the protection authorities that he had found a cultural memory. It feels unreasonable for individuals, and there is also a risk that one will not provide the authorities with information about that type of finding. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that individuals should be subjected to that kind of requirement and that it is appropriate in relation to an increased level of cultural memory protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e354	We're working on cultural memory protection too fully now. We are reporting on this in January 2005, and we believe that we will be a good start to the year of the Hundred Year marker for Norway as a nation. As the representative Arnstad acknowledges, it is important national values that we can secure through a good cultural memory protection. There are today a lot of people who do a very valuable job in this area, and the most important work is done by individual representatives – who are also stressed by the representative Arnstad. What we have today is a system that we share with the rest of Europe, and that means that one must also take private responsibility for these values. But I'm already going to signal that in the cultural memory message that comes in January 2005, the issue that Arnstad is raising here will be a topic that we'll consider, because it's clear that as individuals we have a responsibility for cultural memory values. The state has the same thing. We have taken a considerable responsibility. The government has, among other things, in the 2005 budget, the proceeds to cultural memory increase by more than 10 million. kr. We are commanded by the state to take a greater responsibility, but we are also concerned that the best cultural memory work takes place through use and through the fact that private people also take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e363	The centre party looks forward to an important debate on cultural memory protection. We agree that large developers such as Vegvesenet, Norsk Hydro or any of the major private and public actors must assume responsibility for both securing and excavating cultural memories in the context of major actions. But you can't expect in an area like Trendelag, where individuals on their property can find almost an entire Viking-time berth, that an individual, a farmer, should secure a cultural memory of $100,000. It's a completely unreasonable problem if you want people to keep telling us about the discovery of cultural memories. My follow-up question to the Council of State is, because I understand that the Government will address this issue: does the Council of State see that the attitude that one has had can lead to the discovery of cultural memories not being notified and not being followed up? And can the Council of State confirm that he will use the discretion that is actually in the law, in the case of individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e370	The experience we have from Norway shows that a lot of people take a significant responsibility. When an important cultural memory is discovered, a contact is made with professional authorities, and a good job is done just to secure these values. It also has a value to keep in mind, not only for the nation, but also for individuals, who make it possible to have important cultural memories of their private ownership and to exploit it. We want a stronger state involvement in this area. We have shown this through the budget, which we have had a significant increase from 2004 to 2005. We will also, as I said, present a cultural memory message in which precisely these questions will be considered more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e377	There will be two follow-up questions – first Ingvild Vaggen Malvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e380	I would also like to welcome Mr Hareide to the oral question procedure. I want to start by asking if he feels comfortable with the financial framework that cultural memory protection has been given. I wonder what relationship he sees between the financial framework and the ability to exercise discretion when it comes to assessing whether the cost should be borne by the private operator, or whether it is reasonable for the public to enter and take a share of the large costs, which may be discussed in some cases, as the example from Frosta shows. Does the Council of State see that there's a dilemma here? And is he comfortable with the economic frameworks of the important cultural memory protection, in terms of taking care of ancient memories, and in terms of preventing these past memories from disappearing in retrospect?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e389	It is of course that an inner important area would have liked to have thought even more of a brighter frame. I am therefore very happy that we within a tight frame this year have managed to increase this field by over 10 million. kr, which is one of the largest increases we've had in this field. That's the one thing I'm very fond of. The second is that we have a cultural memory fund that per person. the current date is 200 million. kr, which also offers the opportunity to distribute public funds to ensure that individuals with special cultural memory challenges can receive public support. In view of the budgetary situation we want to secure responsible frameworks, I am therefore pleased that we have increased when it comes to cultural memory protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e394	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e397	I don't think it's a secret that cultural memory protection hasn't been a top priority in the Ministry of Environment, at least not until now. I guess it's good that there's messages coming. It is important, because there is no doubt that there are both churches and buildings that are now standing and falling away in our country and that we should take care of. I'm probably a little surprised that the Council of State is very pleased with the budget that has now been presented. Among other things, an organisation such as Norwegian Cultural Heritage, such as Norway, is will take care of old buildings, now in crisis because the operating budget has been cut. That's just one example of a lot of people. My question is: Will the Council of States – in addition to messages, which are good and good, but there is now money and action that counts – ensure that we have a stepping-up plan in this area, so that in the future we can actually take care of all the buildings around our country that stand and fall due – take care of culture and traditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e407	As Mr Brustad says here, there are significant challenges in this area. I also stressed in my reply that I am pleased with this within a tight budget framework. But I also see – I would say open – that within this area there is of course a need for extra funds in the future. When we present our cultural memory message, we will do all we can to address this very need and our plan for cultural memory work in the future. Then the representative also came into Norwegian Cultural Heritage, which is an organisation working within this field. I just want to say that my priorities have been strong when it comes to voluntary organisations. Within the entire environmental protection work we have found room for a significant increase for these organisations – 15 pst. in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e414	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e417	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. Through the evening post we have been made aware that the Torshov peak in Oslo, which is a state property, is now being put out for sale. It has a unique location, with a building mass of approx. 12000 m2 and large green areas and open spaces of great value to the public as a recreational area. There are also important cultural memories there, and the Byantik product believes that parts of these buildings are protective. The district of Sagene in Oslo, represented by the Municipality of Oslo, wants to take over the property to use buildings for school and to preserve most of the green areas, which are not so much in Oslo, for most people. This is a very important environmental issue, which concerns many thousands of people in Oslo, and my question is: Will the Council of State ensure that these green areas remain in public ownership and remain free areas for most people in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e427	I am pleased that the representative Brustad addresses the issue just to ensure good green space in cities in general, and so on in the district. In order to get a good urban environment, greenery is very important. We have experience among others. from Kristiansand, which now makes it possible to get a fantastic green area right near Lund, because the municipality has taken a significant initiative and spent over 90 million. kr to secure a valuable area. It is clear that the state is busy securing open air areas. In the 2005 budget, we have also increased the clearances just to secure open-air space. But there is also today a considerable responsibility on the municipalities to secure the area within the municipalities. So we have increased the permissions, but I can't go into the specific matter that the representative Brustad is taking up here, and I promise something concretely that the state will go into relation to her. There must be a municipal responsibility. The state takes the vows, and we go into individual matters that have special meaning for the outdoors. This work will be intensified, but in relation to the specific challenge it will be. be a municipal responsibility. I refer to the municipality of Kristiansand, which has taken such responsibility and spent over 90 million. kr to secure such work. It would be difficult if the state said that Kristiansand municipality had to pay for it itself, while the municipality of Oslo might receive a state contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e436	I had hoped that the government had learned something from the case of the Eastern Islands, where the government was finally put heavily in place by a unanimous expansion, so that we managed to secure the Eastern Islands in public ownership, for the benefit of boatmen and all those who want to be in the Oslo soil. For parts of Oslo's population, the Torshov peak is equally important. It is not useful to operate and put everything out for sale uncritically. So the Storting has said very clearly that where there are cultural memory interests, outdoor interests, etc. inside the picture, there shall be a special review of it. That's why it doesn't last when the council here just shifts responsibility over to the Municipality of Oslo. As for what happened in Marvika in Kristiansand, which is great, it came as a result of the case of the Eastern Banks here in Stortinget. My question is again: will the Council of State do anything but talk, will the Council of State act? Here's a chance for the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e443	I just want to comment first that Kristiansand municipality went into this work already in ours, long before Eastern Bolärne-saka was up. They saw the possibilities in this area. They saw that this area, which is close to Lund City, is so important that they wanted to spend money on it. I'm not saying this is just a municipal responsibility. We have through our budget, among others. increase the licenses for the purchase of free space in order to secure important open-air areas. That distribution takes place on a professional basis, including: The Directorate for Nature Management makes a professional judgement in relation to this. I will not comment on the specific matter raised by the representative Brustad, just saying that I have seen other alternatives where the municipality has a significant responsibility. Within the state funds that I have at my disposal, it will also not be possible to buy such a large area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e450	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e453	I must first remind the council that this is a state property, and that state buildings are going to put it out for sale for housing speculation. So this is a natural pearl in the big city, it's a protective building here, it's been a state special school here, we find graveyards here, and the property is located next to the Torshov Valley and is thus a breathing hole in the inner Oslo that the Workers' Party believes must remain public. In fact, kindergartens can be built here, in a very densely populated area with an increasing population, and school buildings can be used. On 17 June this year, the Stortinget took a decision on the basis of a statement by the Defence Committee on the East Poles asking the Government to present a plan for the state areas to be disposed of, in order to protect those with cultural or open-air values, in order to safeguard the rights of all persons. Will the Council of State take this up with its colleague in the Ministry of Modernisation in order to prevent State-building from selling this property to residential buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e462	I can only confirm that we have a significant work to do in relation to the decision taken in the light of the decision of the Defence Committee, by going through all the property of the Defence Courts that are at sale, in order to assess whether some of them are of particular importance to the open-air interests. That work is in progress. So I'm going to say that it's not like all the areas that are sold to private people are losing their value. It's a lot of stuff. The possibilities here to put strong leads on spatial planning, precisely to ensure that the same owner is the same, areas are to be secured as good green space and secured as the open air areas they can be in large cities. There's the same possibility of applying land-use planning whether it's in public ownership or in private ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e469	Heidi Sørensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e472	I am a little surprised at the lack of understanding by the Minister for the Environment about the difficult situation that is when there is pressure on green lungs in a big city, with the pressures in the housing market at the same time, and given the value of these plots. At the same time, I understand that he cannot attest here and now that he will go in and do something. But what surprises me is that he doesn't even manage to say that he wants to go in and look at the matter, and see if there's anything he can do to secure this area, Torshöpten, as the green lung it is in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e478	Obviously, this theme that's being taken up here is very important. But it's not necessarily that it's in public ownership, it's determining whether this is kept as a green area. What I can promise is that I'm going to look at things, I'm going to go in and evaluate this because it's important, but it's not necessarily that keeping it in public ownership ensures this as a green area. Regulatory plans may allow both a private owner and a public owner to retain this as green space. And then I'm going to end up with what the representative Sørensen says: it's important to secure large, good buildings and green areas in the cities. It is a policy that I take full responsibility for, among other things. through the planning and land legislation, for which I am responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e485	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e488	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. This winter, Statoil and Hydro have been allowed to drill some wells in the Barents Sea. In this context, some environmental protection organisations have, inter alia: Nature and Youth and Bellona, announced actions, and we remember that Nature and Youth had previously also had illegal actions when it came to Snow White development. These environmental protection organisations receive millions of support from the country. Will the Council of State ensure that environmental protection organisations that deliberately violate the law to act unlawfully against lawful decisions lose all State aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e495	Developments in the Barents Sea have been much debated in environmental circles. It has been a good, democratic process to make a decision in these matters, and that is what I am basing on in this matter. The environmental organisations are doing a significant and good job. Of course, we can discuss some of their actions. Some of them think I'm very good, some of them I don't really want to support. But it will never be that we will judge good democratic processes and choose between the organisations that may oppose the Government's policy and those who may support the Government's policy, and then give public support to it. I want us to have good, democratic processes. I want us to have organisations that work widely and that have a strong commitment to environmental issues. I do not want to rely on a political assessment to decide who is to be supported or not. I think that environmental organisations are doing an important job, and there should not be political processes that decide who gets the support, and who doesn't get the support, which I don't think is home in a democratic society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e502	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that it is democratic processes that lead to the decisions taken here in the Grand Duchy. But the problem is that these environmental organisations don't care about the democracy they have, they protest from their point of view and don't respect the decisions that are taken here. It is quite clear that there is a political process in relation to who receives State aid from voluntary environmental protection organisations. There is, of course, a chapter and a separate item on the state budget to give money to some of them. One of the problems is that some people get State aid, others don't get it. People's reaction to new predatory policies, for example: not, Norsk Cultural Heritage Foundation is not supported either. And some get support for one year and lose support for the second year. Do the Councils see the need for a review based on equal criteria, including as regards the number of members of these organisations? – For the number of members may go up and down, while State aid increases year by year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e509	For example, the allocation of resources to environmental protection organisations. based on some criteria. It goes by the number of members, it goes by the work that a person does. So there is today a criterion for the public for those who are to be supported. I think we have found a good design on it. There will always be discussions. For the current year, we have first laid down the professional criteria, and then we have increased equally to all organizations by 15 pst, so that there should be no discussion that it has our political leaders. It has simply been a desire to support environmental protection organisations, which I think are doing an important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e514	There will be follow-up questions – Ingvild Vaggen Malvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e517	I am pleased with the answer given by Councillor Hareide to the Advance Party in relation to the view of civil disobedience, otherwise I would have been a little worried about the party support in the future. But it is not enough to talk nice about voluntary environmental protection organisations or to give them money, you also have to listen to them, and my question is to what extent the Council of State intends to follow the advice given by environmental protection organisations. The fight in relation to the use of resources in the Barents Sea is closely linked to the fact that environmental protection organisations have a much more forward-looking and responsible line than the Government in terms of the view on natural resources and not least the focus on renewable resources. Finally, the Government is going to move ahead with the work on the renewable directive. The problem is to set a target of 90 pst., which means that the share of renewable energy in Norway is actually being reduced, and then the question is: Will Hareide listen to environmental protection organisations and work to increase Norway's share of renewable energy in the years ahead and not be reduced, as the Government is now proposing?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e524	Yes, there is no doubt that we should listen to environmental organisations. They're on considerable knowledge, they're actively working on matters, they have a lot of expertise and a lot of experience when it comes to these issues, and the government also thinks it's important to listen to environmental organisations. It is clear that in some cases it is not always possible for environmental protection organisations to respond fully. I think it's important not just to listen to environmental organisations, it's also important to listen to all those who are affected by the decisions that include them. The Ministry of the Environment does. There are environmental organisations one party, the industry may be another party. Local parties, municipalities and regional authorities may also be some to which one should listen. It is precisely to see the healing that is my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e529	Then the time for the oral question procedure is over, and we go over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e536	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be taken up by the representative of Marit Nybakk. Question 6, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Education and Research, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e552	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs: «During the treatment of Innst. O. No 59 amendments to the Act on the Coordination of Pensions and Social Security Benefits were adopted, which showed that, after 67 years of age, the achievement of a high level of social security can be excluded from the coordination of occupational pensions. [[1998-99]] In Pensionist magazine No. 5 for 2004 it is claimed that the required regulation has not yet been prepared by the Ministry. If this is true, will the Council of State immediately ensure that regulations are made, so that all the pensioners concerned get their legitimate performance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e566	In 1999 the law amending the law included provisions in the Co-ordination Act to exclude increased supplementary pensions from popular protection. The change was limited to an increase in supplementary pension due to the provision of points in care after the completion of the professional activity and the achievement of points after the withdrawal of the occupational pension for the years when the pensioner reached the age of 67, 68 or 69. In the proposition, it was signaled that one should also give a prescription. This is, as Mr Nesvik points out, so far no action has been taken. This is because the provision in question has been practised in accordance with the intentions of the law. the position is consistent with the opinion of public occupational retirement provision schemes. However, following a detailed assessment, the Ministry has concluded that current practices should be laid down. The question has been referred to the occupational retirement provision schemes, which agree to lay down a code of practice. I am aiming for the regulation, which is now under work in the Department, to be laid down by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e577	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to say that was a very good answer. I want to give tribute to the Council of State for having gripped this so quickly, and so that we can get this regulation in place hopefully by the end of the year. It's quite right, as the Council of State says, that the proposition says: ‘It may be necessary for individuals themselves to apply for the benefit in question to be free of coordination. It is therefore required to provide a regulation on the implementation as provided for in Section 23(1) of the Coordination Act. 3.’» So I hope that this comes into place quickly, so that the pensioners have the security that this is the regulatory home. Besides that, I just want to thank the Council of State for a good answer and a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e589	After this recognition, there is no need for any further comments from my side, other than confirming that the regulation will be put in place by the end of the year. But I would also like to stress that it is our clear view that the practice that has been followed after the amendment of the law is entirely in line with the intentions underlying the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e597	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Some local communities have specific challenges related to increasing the population during the tourist season. This applies, for example: Gol and Hemsedal, which in the winter are visited by thousands of ski tourists. In the budgetary position for 2004, an overall justice system stated that population fluctuations, as mentioned above, should be taken into account in the annual allocations to police districts. Understood, increased funds shall automatically be allocated to the police of the respective local communities. How will the Council of State ensure that this is clearly evident from the allocation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e606	In many police districts, there are special circumstances that require a specific assessment of the allocation of appropriations. There may be tourist inflows in summer or winter, colleges or universities with large inflows of students, special expansion projects with a large number of workers over a period of time, etc. Such special circumstances may require extra efforts from the police. In determining the staffing of the individual police districts and county offices, this includes, inter alia: taking into account specific challenges in the district. The Ministry of Justice has referred to the opinion of the Justice Committee at the beginning of the budget in the letter to the Directorate of Police. S. No 4 for 2003-2004 to take into account the increase in the population during the tourist season in the allocations to the police districts. In its letter of disposal to the police departments, the police directorate has said the following: ‘The increase in the population during the tourist season has previously been incorporated into the budget allocation model. This consideration has continued to be taken into account in the continuation of the 2003 budget framework.’ On the basis of these leaders from the Ministry of Justice and the Directorate of Police, I am confident that the individual police officers will take these matters into account when allocating the appropriations to the individual officers' offices and police stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e618	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I wish I could be very Lutheran at this point and apologize and talk about and take everything in the best possible sense. And I do. However, I am not quite as optimistic as the Council of State, or to be in my introductory image: not much of a believer. I wish there had been a clearer indication that you, for example. in the examples I mention, Hemsedal and Gol, in a more explicit way, had said that here, funds have been put in to take care of it. This leads quickly to, I have let myself tell around in various police districts where this is the case, that you have to ask and ask from the gentleman in the particular county.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e625	Now both the representative Marthinsen and I can put Luther aside and stick to the Stortinget. The size has been clear, and the Ministry of Justice has also been in relation to the Police Directorate and the Police Directorate. But it is the case that the police reform does not involve detailed management. You create a framework, and you have freedom under responsibility. And it's very different in Norway. Let me just mention some examples: great influx in Agder in the summer, Sunnmøre, with cruise ship calls in Geiranger, a relationship that the police director personally has entered into, North Buskerud, which the representative has brought with him, not to mention Eastfold and Westfold, with great indentation of cabin people and boat traffic in summer time. These relationships are being tried. However, the major issue raised by the representative lies in the debate that Stortinget will have when the police role message is presented, where both the police reform is evaluated and the allocation of resources between the police districts. The major debate on this, which the representative is basically asking for, will then also arrive at the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e636	I am pleased with the answer given by the Minister of Justice here. It is clear that this can be seen in many ways as a prelude to the passing of events, while at the same time it may be rooted in the reality that you experience around, and which may often be associated with a feeling that everyone is fighting for their assignment, and that this can be difficult internally in the police districts. I expect the police officers too to notice that this has been raised in the Great Britain Question Time today, and what the Minister of Justice has answered. I also expect this to be clarified in the waste disposal writings, and that it should then be handled in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e645	We are all lurking in the public debate – here we come almost Luther in the statement. It happens to politicians, whether they are poachers' representatives or state councils. And we have to assume that police officers are involved in the public debate. We also have to assume that local viewers come along. So that way you're in purgatory. To take a popular example of this: when the real storm was at its worst in Eastfold, the police officer put on the local radio and came – it has been told me – with the following funny statement: I hold the fort, and Doorum fights for the money. If the intervention of the representative, Mr Marthinsen, is to be interpreted in such a way that he does, there may be a good exchange of staff in the course of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e658	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘During Question Time on 20 October 2004, the Minister of Justice said that dangerous persons should be imprisoned immediately. This was related to a matter mentioned in the newspaper of week 43. The police claim that it is necessary to calculate up to several weeks' waiting time, even if there is a risk of repetition on the part of the perpetrator. What's right is, as the Council of State says, that people like that. are sentenced to detention, are they immediately to be imprisoned, or is it as the police make it that it can last weeks and months?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e667	The rule of the law is that criminal convictions are to be executed as soon as they are enforceable. Precautions shall be given high priority by the police and the prosecution authority so that enforcement can be carried out accordingly. It is obvious that custody sentences must be executed immediately, as such a judgment is based on the existence of a qualified and real risk that convictions may again commit a serious crime that would violate the life, health or freedom of others, or endanger those assets. Such a judgment is based on the fact that the use of custody is necessary to protect society. As a result, waiting time beyond what is strictly necessary will be in obvious conflict with the heavy social concerns in which all detention sentences are enshrined. A large proportion of those sentenced to detention have been held in custody during the investigation and the proceedings of the courts in the criminal proceedings and until a final judgment has been given. In these cases, imprisonment will usually last until custody can be implemented. Consequently, the question of waiting time between judicial judgment and enforcement will not be raised here. In the cases where the offender is acquitted, this will be due to a specific assessment of the individual case whether the prosecution authority should promote an application for detention before the courts with a view to keeping the offender imprisoned until a enforceable judgment can be enforced. In such an assessment, the risk of repetition of serious criminal offences over time until enforcement can be implemented and, in the most serious criminal cases, the public’s concern will be central. What I have touched on here is the formal legal framework for the enforcement of detention sentences and, in general, how to deal with such cases. With regard to the handling of specific individual cases, this falls within the competence of the Advocate General and is therefore not the subject of my commanding authority as the Council of State. It would therefore not be right for me to comment on individual matters that are referred to in the media. However, on a general basis, I would like to take up the topic that I have now addressed to the representative, with the Riksadvokat. However, press headlines have shown that there have been cases where there has been too much time from the moment when there is a judicial verdict on custody and until the criminal justice system implements it. We don't have a storage queue, and there's a safe deposit box in the Ila prison, a safe deposit box and a safe deposit box. Nor does it seem to be lacking in the laws and regulations that are relevant to this matter, but there are not enough procedures. The Ministry of Justice will therefore take the initiative, as I also said in the spontaneous Question Time, to review the procedures for ensuring effective enforcement and the effective use of the detention centres that we have. In addition to this, I would like to point out that since 2001 we have been giving instructions to those sentenced to long sentences and violent and violent sentences, of course, in relation to enforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e684	I thank you for your answer. I think the Minister of Justice here is clear in his political message. Of course, I also fully share the underlying intention, namely that the public interest here should be central. In that I also assume that the consideration of victims for these kinds of acts should be taken into account. There has been a discussion in Norway about the relationship with the perpetrator and the victim. I think that by being very clear in these kinds of things and in other crimes, you have a clear political signal about how you want development to be. I think that's very positive. At the same time, it's a little challenging, I think, to hear police lawyers say that the system is like this, we have to wait for it to take a long time, the system doesn't take over the realities. I record that the Minister of Justice has said something else in his answer, and my question is: do we have procedures and interaction between the different levels of justice? Are they good enough when we get these kind of statements? Or is there any attitude behind it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e695	What I said in the spontaneous question hour, and to the extent that I repeated, I would repeat: we want to use the matter that was the subject of Ellingsen's question to me in the spontaneous question hour, to a case, to see that we are just going to be good enough in the routines. I can also inform you that, last Friday, I had a meeting in Trondheim with representatives of Norwegian lawyers, the court administration and the prosecution authority, both the lower and the higher prosecution authority, to be absolutely sure that everything that concerns legislation and procedures, we should actually go through. It was a tremendous effort, where everyone contributed with an open mind to do something about it. That's the general question. But when it comes to the very specific thing here, which goes into custody and in the particularly serious cases, I'm just going to use the example that I've done here. That will form the background for conversations I have with the Advocate General in general. It will also provide the background for other relevant dialogues I want to conduct. Then I won't comment on any statements about the press. There is freedom of expression in this country, and everyone stands for the statements they make. But I guess I've actually given my comment, without going into the individual matters, by expressing myself as I have now done as a Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e704	I thank you again for the answer, and am very pleased that the Minister of Justice is as clear as he is. I assume that we have a common challenge, and that we have a common position that these kinds of issues should be clearly identified. I also believe that the Minister of Justice's approach here makes sense in showing and perhaps using a case as an example to discuss the process in the system, and not least show how to expect this to be followed up by the political system. Because there has to be coordination. There shall be a link between the size and that which will subsequently be implemented in a good manner. Once again, I would like to express my thanks for the reply from the Minister of Justice. I look forward to letting go of similar things in the future, and I expect the Minister of Justice to share my wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e713	Of course, I share that desire. I can never give a guarantee, because we humans are faulty, whether we are state councillors or not. But, of course, we have to do our utmost, and in the public debate we have to live under the critical spotlight of the debate, including the initiatives of the big business representatives in the Chamber. To give an example, we chose to ask two Norwegian judges to look at two murder cases and compare them with Sweden. Now you can't compare it completely because it's not the same ratio. But we chose to hold it up like a mirror, to see what we could learn from it. This has resulted in a cooperation situation that started last autumn at the Oslo Courts, with full cooperation with lawyers and prosecution authorities to ensure that things go quickly. Then last Friday we went on with a national gathering of the National Attorney General and his people, central people in police prosecution functions and Norwegian defense lawyers and judges, to be absolutely sure that we can handle things the way we do when Norway is at best, that we sit down and come up with all the little things that matter, and add up to them. I am going to work further in that spirit and with the mentality that I have mentioned to the representative, and that he has commented to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e725	‘The festival games in Elverum are 30 years old and are thus one of the country’s ‘seniors’ among party games and festivals. The games have increased in popularity and are gathering more and more trailers. The base of the games as an orchestral course for the youth symphonics makes this event special, among other things. with a view to future recruitment. Party games have been trying to get node status for a long time. The interior now deserves this status for the games to play. What is it to do for the Elverum Festival to achieve such status?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e732	The status of a node institution is a long-term financing model where funding is shared between the country and the region. The state covers 60 pst. of the ordinary public operating grant, while the region covers 40 pst. It is an excuse for the state grant that the region allows its share. Four festivities/festivities have per. the status of a node institution. It is the Festival Games in Bergen, the Festival Games in North Norway, the Olav Festival in Trondheim and the Molde International Jazz Festival. The Ministry of Culture and the Church has proposed, in the proposal for the 2005 State Budget, the Förde Internationale Folkemusikfestival as a new node institution, in line with the recommendation in the Innst. S. No 155 for 2003-2004 from the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs on Cultural Policy towards 2014, i.e. on the Communication on Culture. The games in Elverum are an important venue for the dissemination of classical chamber music and have expressed a desire to gain the status of a node institution. Other party games and festivals also have expectations of such status, Jr. Innst. S. No 155, which I also mentioned instead. In the setting, a number of the committees have been formed to give node status to several festivals over the years, and to name them. The games in Elverum are not among those that are mentioned. It doesn't mean that the games in Elverum can't get such a status, but the question has to be considered in a larger context. The Ministry will therefore look more closely at the issue and give a holistic priority in line with the Storting's intentions. This will be done in consultation with the regional contributors, the municipality and the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e747	I thank you for your answer. When you're engaged in these kinds of festivals and party games, it's obvious that you look to the side and see what kind of status other events get. It creates expectations in many ways when comparing sailing with other types of party games and festivals, that you have the opportunity to reach out, just to ensure the predictability of the status function. My question – and I would like to repeat it – was: What is the Council of State really supposed to do, and what kind of criteria are the basis for this assessment of node status? And isn't she afraid that the practice you have now actually means that you get a pretty big amount of randomness compared to whether it actually is? Do you have enough driving rules in relation to this, so that, among other things, The games in Elverum, and to the extent that others, know what to build up against in order to meet such an important criterion that ensures such important funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e756	When it comes to the status of a node institution, there must be mandatory cooperation, i.e. a regional decision on co-financing. This is a necessary premise. He is not entirely decisive, but he is necessary, not as in several festivals that also have local and regional support. Then it is clear from the cultural announcement that the department sees it as a poor thing to prioritize an extension of the framework for the festival support scheme under the Norwegian Cultural Council. The allocation of funds must then be based on a quality, digestion and local anchorage assessment. There will also be a more flexible use of state resources for festivals. Now it would also be an advantage if Elverum had got a plurality in Stortinget compared to the ones that were mentioned. They were not allowed. I haven't even been to a party game in Elverum, but I've heard a lot about it. It's not what's supposed to mean when it comes to who's going to get the status of a node institution. We want to look at this whole thing and take one step at a time in relation to the ones that we can fit in. It's also an economic question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e767	Then I would like to invite the Minister of Culture to the opening concert at the next party game! There I probably have two tickets, she'll get one of them. And I'm sure if she has an opportunity, she'll be with me. It is clear that a strong minority in the Great Britain, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, when dealing with the cultural message, and also at the last budgets, have actually been set up and seemed that it is important now to give such status to the Festival Games in Elverum. I have to say, one thing is the geographical arguments, which I understand you should be toned down in relation to this, but it is quite obvious that the inland and the cultural activities that are happening in the interior need to be strengthened. If you look at those who have gained node status, I guess in many ways, the Council of State should not only be invited to participate in the opening concert, but perhaps it should also have a keen look at the possibilities for the party games to actually get node status. My question will be in this final round: at what time does the Council of State see it possible to gain a more recent and broader assessment of whether or not the party games and possibly others will be able to gain node status?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e778	The natural time is at each budget proposal. We're going to follow up the cultural message, and one of the points in the cultural message is that we also want to expand the number of node institutions, and then, of course, Elverum will be evaluated. I don't think there is a lack of invitation that means I haven't been to Elverum yet, there is probably a lack of time either. There's a lot of summer time happening. A vacation should also take place between all these pleasant activities. I agree with the representative of Storberget when he points to the geographic centre of gravity, from Bergen up to Harstad, and then we have no one in the inner Austland area. The quality is of course the most important thing, but I don't think it's the quality it lacks when it comes to Elverum. But geography should also be taught, to say it this way, when it comes to who we're going to include in the next round. It's also so that when you look at what gets multiples and minorities in the committee, it might be even more random than what we in the department decide -- I'll say it's more random. It has something to do with the geographical association of the representatives and some of these things. It really shouldn't count. I take with me the invitation from the representative of Storberget, and hope that we don't have to wait too long to evaluate Elverum.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e795	This question, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e798	On behalf of the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family: ‘In the context of the notification of gay and lesbian living conditions in Norway, funds were granted for an anti-discrimination project under the auspices of the National Association for Homofil and Lesbian Liberation. The project has positive results and experience. The Ministry has not continued the project, inter alia by reference to the joint representative for discrimination. What does the Council of State do to follow up the decisions of the notification, in order to prevent discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e807	With regard to the follow-up to the decisions in connection with the Leverage Notice and the quality of life for lesbians and gays in Norway, I refer to last year's interplay from Siri Hall Arnøy. It was about my goals and visions for the homopolitical work and what kind of view of gay and lesbian I am taking on the basis of the work. The interpellation was debated at Stortinget on 13 November last year, and I then gave a comprehensive account of the follow-up to the communication. In addition, I refer to the Government's draft budget for 2005. The anti-discrimination project started on 15 August 2002 and was due to end on 15 August 2004. It has always been a prerequisite for the project to go over two years. The 2002 budget proposal reads as follows: ‘A two-year project under the auspices of LLH, covering anti-discrimination work aimed in particular at the organisation and working life, has also been used.’ Following an application dated 4 March this year, the project was extended in 2004 and a grant of SEK 190 000 was granted. The letter of grant expressly stated that the additional appropriations were for the completion of this project. The end date has also been communicated orally to LLH on several occasions, both in a meeting between LLH and the civil service in February this year and in a meeting between LLH and me and other political leadership in the department on 25 May this year. In this last meeting, there was a great deal of consensus about the end-time, and we discussed the evaluation of the project, including the following: the planning of the evaluation was to take place in the autumn of 2004 in cooperation between the LLH and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. Work itself will start in 2005. The anti-discrimination project has been constantly followed with great interest in the department, through reports from the LLH and in the regular meetings between the association and the department. I think it is wise to evaluate this project after 2 and 1/2 years of working – that was also the intention. We will have an overall assessment of the issues related to the project by lesbians and gays and the scope of the cases. We will also get an idea of the extent to which the public utility has been able to contribute to these matters. It is set at NOK 100 000 for the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e823	I thank you for the answer, but I am not satisfied with what is now said. I would like to remind you that we are in a period of heavy and large legislative work involving lesbians and homosexuals, for example. the proposal on gender-neutral marriage law and, in general, the protection of discrimination under the Constitution. In addition, it remains to be realised, in fact, a great many of the measures decided unanimously in the context of the notification. The same big message outlines the role of the National Association for Homofil and Lesbian Liberation as a professional watchbitch and a pre-missive for the social debate – an organisation that does a real, decent job. How, then, does the Council of State think that the National Association for Homofil and Lesbian Liberation should follow up the legal work through its role as a watchman without the legal competence that they no longer want to afford?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e832	First to the full action plan: a number of work is ongoing in very many departments to follow up the action plan. I refer again to the debate we had in Stortinget on 13 November last year. My impression after that debate was that Stortinget was satisfied with the work that was going on and that is still going on in the various departments. We have also received 26 questions from Stortinget about this action plan, which we are about to answer in the ministry. There'll be supplementary answers, because there's a lot going on. LLH shall continue to receive operating aid as high as they have in recent years. The organisation has an operating aid of 2 million. kr, and within that framework, the organisation is well maintained – much better than many other organisations of the same size – just to be able to catch up and do a good job. In the case of the project itself, it was to end in the autumn. It has been continued over the year, and it is fully in line with the action plan adopted by the Stortinget, that this project should last for two years. The evaluation will show what we might be going on, and whether we're going to do something different than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e841	Then I have to ask the following: if it is such that the union is now considered to be well-managed with the funds given by the department, does that mean that it covers what was also in the project? That's my immediate question. I want to show that the project has actually covered all forms of discrimination, and that the number of increasing requests has made the need for assistance and assistance visible. In addition, the Equality Ombudsman, the Equality Centre and the Anti-Discrimination Organisation have stated that they support the project and do not have the capacity or resources to take on precisely these anti-discrimination tasks. So I want to repeat the question: how will the Council of State ensure that the work against discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians is maintained, and is it such that the union will receive as much money as if they had this project continued?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e850	The 2005 budget does not add funds to the anti-discrimination project because it has to be evaluated. We'll come back and see what's going to happen. In one area, however, the department works with a legislative proposal – for a common equality and discrimination agency. In this context, it is assessed whether the new ombudsman should also enforce the labour-environment rules on discrimination in working life, i.e. in the area where LLH projects revealed that there are most issues related to discrimination. Then I would like to say that this project should monitor and have identified where discrimination is taking place. It has made discrimination visible, not least in the workplace. The project as such has not dealt with individual matters, but they have shown individuals the way forward, and a system has certainly been put in place to help individuals further. As I said, the project has not dealt with the individual issues. It's going to be public. To the extent that shortcomings have been identified in the public sector to deal with this, the evaluation will be very important to see where and how to continue this work. And that should be done by the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e878	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e884	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘Overdosage and misuse of medicinal products have become a major cause of death and a threat to health and quality of life. In hospital hospitals, about 1000 people die each year from overdose or misuse of drugs. In comparison, it should be mentioned that 280 people were killed in traffic last year. Will the Council of State launch surveys and monitoring to reduce this enormous figure, and is this high death rate related to the large-scale reformer and the rationalisation of the hospital sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e893	The representative of Bastisen asks a question based on the Ministry of Health's budget for 2005. Here we refer to a study from an in-house department at the University Hospital in Akershus, conducted between 1993 and 1995. In the study, they found that the incidence was 9.1 drug-related deaths per year. 1000 submissions. The study concluded that 50 pst. of these deaths were related to adverse drug use, overdoses and misuse. It is important to note that the study does not distinguish between misuse in the hospital and misuse that is outside the hospital's control. According to the State Health Authority, 389 cases of adverse events related to medicinal products were recorded in the hospital in 2003. Of these, 56 events involved significant damage and 11 requests of unnatural deaths. Whatever the size of the number, one death is too much. In case of accidental drug use in the hospital, this is a serious deviation from the standards and guidelines underlying hospital systems. Therefore, let me explain the requirements of the hospitals regarding the management of deviations. Hospitals shall capture non-conformities and report events involving significant personal injury associated with treatment. This also applies to the administration of medications. This requirement is laid down in the Special Health Services Act §3-3, Report obligation to the Health Authority in the county. I quote: ‘The health institution covered by this Act shall, as soon as possible, notify in writing to the County Health Authority of significant personal injury caused to patients as a result of the provision of healthcare or by one patient injuring another. Events that could have led to significant personal injury shall also be reported.’;» I can assure you that quality assurance and focus on good business management is a priority after the corporate reform. The introduction of new procedures and the correction of non-conformities shall be continuous and improvements shall also be included in the use of medicinal products in hospitals. A new management tool is now in use, which will give an overview of the number of posts associated with, for example: patients over a certain age. It will also be a starting point for a dialogue with the first line service on good solutions. Misuse of medicinal products has always been a threat to health and quality of life. It is likely that there is also a focus on the quality of healthcare and the reporting of errors and injuries that is an important reason to see the scale of the problem better today. In this way, the hospital reform may have provided a better basis for assessing where action should be taken. Proper use of medicinal products will also be a key theme in the key policy communication to be presented by the Government in spring 2005. In the Communication, I will focus on the scale of the problem and look at how the public can facilitate a better follow-up of patients, both inside and outside institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e911	I'm not satisfied with the answer. It's okay that the number may have decreased somewhat, but 389 died due to misdosing of drugs is a lot. In comparison, 280 die in traffic. It's serious. A study on why this happens will not be started, after what the Council of State says. I have not received an answer to that either. Maybe the doctors are overworked. We've got games on guard 24 hours a day. What is being done by the Ministry of Health to map this? What is being done to solve the problem? I have not received an answer to that, but perhaps the Council of State can give an answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e916	: I'll try – as far as I can and the memory requires it. Let me first make it clear: there are not 389 people who have died in intern medicine departments. I said there had been 389 cases of adverse events. In 2003, the total number of unexplained deaths in the home medical departments was eleven, i.e. neither 1 000 nor 389. Many of these are caused by overdoses. The reasons for mismedication are not distinguished. But what is quite clear is that all such deviations are reported in a system that the Health Inspectorate is reviewing, and they go in and look at the quality assurance procedures to minimise this. As I said, any unexplained death is one unexplained death too much. The figures were thus found in the survey carried out at Akershu University Hospital from 1993 to 1995. The indication that we now have from the Health Inspectorate's report after the hospital reform goes in the opposite direction to what you can read between the lines at Bastisen, namely that this should have increased. On the contrary, it seems that we have gone the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e925	I have just participated in a TV program where the harness received more attention than this problem. Selenium is an animal, and it's amazing that animals get more attention than humans. I think it is time for a searchlight to be set on this also in the staging room. I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I don't feel reassured.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e930	Of course, it is not nice to help increase the anxiety of the representative Bastisen, but to control the media's focus and balance between sales and health is at least outside my area of competence. I can sometimes share the frustration that the representative has obviously had. I have also had frustration in my 26 years as a politician. It's not always media having a proportional relationship to the importance of a matter, objectively speaking, and the headlines. But let me say that I feel that the media are very much following the health care system. I think that's very important. That we not only have health supervision and formality, but that the press is also concerned about individuals, I think is an important contribution to attention. In terms of sales, I think the undersigned and the Bastisen have a relatively equivalent relationship to it, which currently has the only two in this hall, as far as I remember, which has seagoing time from the fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e942	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘An alarming increase in the number of swing door spaces in our hospitals is reported. Among other things, the patient ombudsman in Nordland makes clear that the situation is unacceptable, and that many are affected because hospitals do not do their job. In particular, this situation appears to affect patients in psychiatry and geriatry. What will the Council of State do to bring this development to an end?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e951	The representative of Lutvold takes up the presence of swing door spaces at the hospitals. With swing door spaces, I understand patients who are being printed and inserted repeatedly, and with short spaces. The reason why this happens is complex. The proportion of patients with chronic diseases is increasing. This is due to the fact that the proportion of elderly patients is also increasing. These patient groups account for many of the hospital stays and many of the lay days. While the group is 75 years of age or older, it is 11 pst. by the population, they have 25 pst. of all the stays and actually 1/3 of all the days spent in our hospitals. Many people need repetitive services, on the one hand planned, and on the other due to acute deterioration. Statistically, these may appear as swing door spacers, without having received any poor offer. Patients are treated both at home and in hospitals. Even patients in the final phase of life will be able to have many introductions, because it is desirable that they be at home for periods of time. This is a desired development, which leads to an increase in the number of cleaning operations. This does not mean that the service is functioning badly. At the same time, I must acknowledge that I also receive signals that the relationship between services and communication between levels is not always good enough. This gives cause for concern and action. Hospital discharges may at times be too poorly prepared, and schemes envisaged by the Storting through legislation are not always properly followed up. I am thinking in particular of the provision on individual levels, which is such an important tool, used correctly, that I have asked all health companies to report on what they will do to fulfill the intentions of the Stortinget here, with a particular focus on mental health. In the field of mental health protection, we have recently seen examples of both patients being outsourced after a short period of time and that the receiver has not been there or has not worked properly. I have taken this into account, and I expect the regional health companies here to follow up. Reimbursements are not a problem linked unilaterally to hospitals and emergency services. They must be seen in the context of both the district psychiatric centres and the services provided in the patient’s neighbourhood, not least housing provision in the community context. Good services can prevent unnecessary accommodation if we see both municipal services, inter-level cooperation and the use of outpatient teams in the context. Health Nord has a lower number of emergencies than the national average and the expansion of DPS has not been completed. This means that not all DPS have sufficient capacity or competence to receive all patients discharged from hospital emergencies. Health Nord has, among others: in order to ensure smooth and simple transfer and outsourcing procedures for patients admitted to hospitals, in their 2004 management paper, instructed all their hospitals to review outsourcing procedures and procedures. I would like to highlight the importance of developing and stimulating good systems for interaction between the different levels of services. That, I think, is a contribution to the survival of a part of the swing door problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e968	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and first have the following comment on psychiatry: I think it is very important that these district psychiatric centers are now being expanded. As far as I know, centres that have been planned by the previous hospital owner are not realized, and have not been put into service. The Minister of Health should contribute to this. Then for housing in the municipalities. It is important, but at the same time, it is important to have a closeness of care that both the district psychiatric centres and a good municipal economy and staffing can contribute to a sheep’s well-being. So to what may be the main cause of many of the swing door spaces, and to what the council itself was talking about: an increasingly older population. By 2020 it will be 40 pst. more people in this country who are 70 years of age or older. I guess that means that those with chronic diseases and complex disorders will just increase. Then my question to the Minister of Health: Is it right to reduce hospital capacity and remove beds when we see that the need is increasing, that the bedtime may be too short today, and that there is incomplete investigation, treatment and follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e979	First of all, what goes on in district psychiatric centers. Once the psychiatry recovery plan has been completed as determined by the Stortinget in 2008, 75 such centres shall be established. In addition, we shall have ambulance teams associated with them. So as far as I remember on the go, it's somehow between 60 and 65 of these that now for all the practical measures are done. Most of them have been implemented, and the funding plans we have put in place and the commitments we have made are the remaining ones. It's obvious that it'll help for that category. With regard to the second part, which is linked to an increasingly older population, it is clear that the older proportion of the population will increase over the next 20–30–40 years. It will also mean that they will confiscate a much larger number of beds in hospitals. It is one of the most important factors in long-term hospital planning. Acute medicine for the rest must be expected to be at the same level. The big variable is the number of older ones. Medical technological development now means that we are treating far more of those who are 80 years old and older than we did in the past. It also has a bearing on the problem of cleaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e986	The President will draw attention to the fact that there is a little clock on the intercoms, so that you can keep track of the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e989	I think what the council says is important, and I notice in particular that he admits that there is a greater need for a larger number of beds in hospitals, among others. because of the growth in the number of older people. Then there must be a wrong signal that is now sent out, when e.g. Health South has been told to cut one third of its building mass – that probably also means a cut in the number of beds. It cannot be to meet the needs outlined for 2020, which will actually come much earlier in some regions. When the patient representative in the Nordic region says that hospitals are not doing their job, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Health and Health to look at the cause. Do we put too much stress on bedtime and economics now in relation to the big goal, that the patient should be put first? Everyone has agreed, even though we disagree on health reform and other things. If it's the case that the patient comes in second order in relation to economics, efficiency and rationalization, then we have to take another step and make sure that we have the economy, capacity and resources enough to treat people adequately before they go out. Among other things, the term ‘completed patient’ has been changed to ‘ready-to-print patient’, and the problems it poses have not been addressed, for example: for the community health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e996	There is no doubt that the future will require more days to lie. I feel quite convinced of that, given the evolution we have. At the same time, I think we have to recognise that, although it may sometimes be desirable politically to focus very heavily on the economy, that this is the cause of all the disgustingness of the health care system, it is a fact that we have had historical increases in hospital appropriations in the last five to six years that far exceed the overall growth of the budget and that now take a historically high share of GDP. There is no doubt that there has been one of the main reasons why we have had the waiting time down. We are now in a situation where the waiting lists in many contexts are actually planning lists. I believe the long-term planning we have in place and the coordination and capacity we have is reassuring. Because there are very well-known sizes how many of us get older and how old we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1005	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: «The road authorities of the Member States terminated the agreement with the Alarm Centre 110 on monitoring the tunnels in Sogn and Fjordane this year and moved it to Lærdal. The council claimed that this would not compromise security, as there was a 24-hour guard in Lærdal who took over the surveillance. Nine months later, Vegvesenet has now decided to drop the same daily crew and move all night-time surveillance/control to Bergen from 1 April 2005. How does the Council of State now assess the safety of the Sogn and Fjordane tunnels?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1014	I would first like to stress that the termination of the economic agreement between the State Road Administration and the Alarm Centre in Florø has not led to any change in the function of the Alarm Centre in terms of monitoring the tunnels. Nor will there be any change to this in connection with the closure of the daily crew at the Vegvesen watch centre in Lærdal. It is the State Road Service that is responsible for monitoring and warning. The tunnels on the road network are continuously monitored and controlled by five regional road traffic centres in Norway. In the West Region, the road traffic centre is located in Bergen. This means that the tunnels in Sogn and Fjordane are monitored from the road traffic centre in Bergen, as well as the guard station in Lærdal. The State Road Service has stated that the night-time closure of the Lærdal watch centre will not result in any change in the level of preparedness, alert procedures or interaction between the State Road Service, the Alarm Centre and the local rescue facilities. The Bergen Road Traffic Centre will act in the same way as the Lærdal Guard Centre, and local knowledge will be maintained through training and close cooperation between the centres. In principle, the whole country today can be monitored from anywhere with communication lines, sufficient competence in traffic engineering, electrical and IT competence. Given that it is not the State Road Service to move out to the tunnels in the event of various incidents, it has no significance for security if the surveillance is now moved to Bergen. In order to ensure safety and preparedness, it is an objective to have a crew of at least two persons at night at all road traffic centres. Safety is better ensured if there are two persons on guard in the same place than if there is one person in two different places. On the basis of the statement I have received, I consider that the preparedness and safety of the tunnels in Sogn and Fjordane and all the tunnels in the West Region are well maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1027	The Council of State pointed out what the Vegvessen think about interaction and preparedness, that the new decision will not go beyond interaction, and that local knowledge is preserved. It is only a pity that the local rescue and emergency missions see it in a completely different way, for example. because, for the second time, the Road Service only makes a decision without informing its partners. The Council of State pointed out in its answer to my written question in winter about the same issue that interaction and cooperation should now be improved, and thus security should also be preserved, because one would have closer cooperation. As I said, the local rescue and emergency seats react that they are not hearing; the fire department or AMK centre has been asked for the ratio. Then I have to ask the Council of State whether she thinks that decisions of this kind, without consultation or without asking what local actors think, are a example of good cooperation locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1036	If that's the case, it's not an example of good cooperation. I want, and it's in our entire policy, that we should have open rounds on that kind of question. That means we're going to go through a bunch of laps where we might find more sensible ways to do our problems. From this I have great confidence that the State Road Administration has made proper assessments in the organisation. So I would like to stress that I am concerned that the communication should be good between the stakeholders. And if that's how it hasn't been good dialogue, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1043	I appreciate the fact that the Council of State says so. We have plenty of tunnels in Sogn and Fjordane, and we also have the world's longest, which is the Laerdal Tunnel. Before a built Lærdal tunnel, a relevant department, both central and local, gather and create an emergency plan with both technical equipment, security and daily standby where daily staffing at the Lærdal watch centre was central. So now the Vegvessen has taken decisions on the partial closure of the watch centre, this central centre which is decisive and an important part of the emergency plans locally, without the relevant authority, local authority, being heard. The AMK Center has also been busy with local expertise, not only to close a tunnel, because they can do so from a central bank in Bergen. The point is that in Sogn and Fjordne we are surrounded by a lot of race, and there is a lot of uneasiness, especially in wintertime, and having a local expertise on how unearthly frames is important when sending out rescue forces on the road to reach the place where it happened. The problem is that the local etats think this is a security threat. Then my question is: does the Council of State think that the local authorities are worried about the safety of the tunnels unwarranted?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1052	I believe that it is very important to bring local knowledge, and it is absolutely right that that knowledge should be acquired locally as well. What has been stressed by the State Road Service is precisely, as I have been briefed, that local knowledge is also to be found at the road traffic centre in Bergen, which is responsible for night monitoring. I would like to remind you that the daykeeping is still in place where it has been, and it is also intended that it should be. As I said, the Road Service has assessed it there that it is better to have two on guard at the same time in one place that can have control and overview of these tunnels, than to have one on watch alone in two different places.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1061	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘The application procedure for a concession for the establishment of a civil airport at Rygge airstation is lengthy. Rygge Civile Airport has been working on the case for five years and is waiting with the Defense, who is a concessional candidate, for the treatment to be ready. Will the concession be granted, and if so, when may the concession conditions be available?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1070	The issue of the establishment of a civil airport at Rygge Aviation Station has a significant interest both as a basis for new travel offers and as regards societal impacts. The project also has a significant economic impact on those responsible for development. Therefore, the conditions for any concession are an essential part of the concession treatment itself. I expect a decision in the matter to be made within a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1077	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The deadline set by Eastfold’s representatives and those interested in this civil airport was by the end of October. But when you say ‘can’ and ‘relatively short time’, I understand that it will take a lot longer, so that we have to wait again for the final decision. We know that the Council of State issued a government note on 18 June with a recommendation to establish a civil airport. It concerns 350 000 people, all municipalities are in favour of this development, and business is also positive. Although the Council of State cannot now give a final answer as to whether concession will be granted, it must have come very far in this treatment since you can give answers «in a relatively short time». Is it likely that the Government will stop these aerodrome plans? It must be possible to give a signal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1086	We have not dealt with this matter completely – it has not been dealt with by the Government. I have to be allowed to use the time necessary to make a decision on this. If I could have given an answer today, the matter had been resolved. So it's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1091	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. Many people now feel that fiber optics is being operated – not especially by the department, but I recall that those behind this civil airport have now been working seriously for five years. So at least I want to make a request to the Council of State that she is now trying to cut through ‘in a relatively short time’.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1098	I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1106	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Transport: ‘The ferry situation in the Bokenfjord link on the E39 between Mortavika and Arsvågen is very important, not least for commercial traffic. When it is now said that more and more cars, this leads to more and more cars. for the loss of business. The problem of oversitting has increased strongly in recent years. What action will the Council of State take to improve the situation of this important coastal route link?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1115	In 2003, 8.3 pst. of the traffic recorded as remaining in the national road ferry link E39 Mortavika-Arsvågen. The high traffic associated with holidays, holidays and weekends is the main reason why so many cars remain on the ferry terminals. Traffickers also experience waiting time in connection with workshop stays for the ferries in the connection. In the national transport plan 2006-2015, a new long-term standard for national road ferries is set. For parent road connections such as E39 Mortavika-Arsvågen, the long-term objective is that the number of remaining cars should not exceed 2 pst. measured over a year. However, this objective must be seen in conjunction with the available resources in the national road transport operation. The state road transport services are working to improve the efficiency of national road transport operations, including: through increased competitive outsourcing. The benefits of this work could be used to improve the offer. The Government has decided to suspend the national road ferries E39 Mortavika-Arsvågen and E39 Halhjem-Sandvikvåg with requirements for new gas ferries from 1 January 2007. This is in line with the Government’s objective of increasing the domestic use of natural gas. The Directorate of Roads, as a privilege authority, has administrative responsibility for the outsourcing of competition in this sector. It is in this context, among other things. the requirements for the number of remaining cars to comply with the new NTP target. This week the outcome of the competitive outsourcing in this connection became known. The new gas ferries to be built will be larger than the existing ferries on E39 Mortavika-Arsvågen. There will be half-hourly departures in the most traffic-intensive periods. Furthermore, travel time for road users will be reduced. This will result from the repair of ferry terminals and from the fact that the new ferries will keep significantly higher speed than the current ferries. There will also be more departures than today. Overall, this will contribute to efficient traffic management that ensures good user accessibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1128	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I'm in the long term, and it's good that we get gas ferries, which hopefully will fill the measurements, but it takes too long. The problem is very now, and I'm reacting to the state council saying that it's not that dangerous, because it's only on weekends, and it's only holiday and leisure. So it's going to be 10 pst. that remains, there are 100,000 cars left on the berth. There's no other connection in Norway that's close to such a big overlap. I react, as I said, to the fact that the Council of State minimizes it. I also see that it's done from the Road Directorate in a response to the County Council. This is without comparison the most important road link we have in the West, on the Coastal Road. There is the highest pass. In extreme cases, people have to wait three to four hours, and there are miles of cows. It can be resolved in the short term by 2.5 million. kr per year. It must now be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1137	I now register that I am being interpreted in such a way that I minimize this. When it's over 8 pst. which is left on the average, it's a very high number, I want to underline that. That's why we've been concerned that we need to put new solutions on this route, and that's why we've been running this competition round now. The Road Directorate is going to go through this and see if other solutions are possible along the way. Because I fully agree with the representative that the overtaking is too high, and I take that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1144	I am happy to hear that the Directorate of Roads will go through it. In the next year's budget, we can read that it's 55 pst. of the vacations in Norway that meet the long-term targets by default, so we have a job to do, and he's not small. It might be useful to know if either directorate or department has an overview of which link is worse, if they have a priority plan for what to upgrade, and if it is possible for us to know something about it. It seems to me that this connection in Rogaland is very poor. If it costs 2.5 million. To clean up a problem that at least includes 100,000 cars, we can quickly calculate that it is NOK 25 per person. Car. I'm pretty sure the social benefits of spending the $2.50 million. kr is quite large, so I hope that the Road Directorate will also consider the proposal pointed out by Rogaland, once again.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1149	Now I'm a little uncertain about what the question was about. But let me just sum up: we've been through the round that's been on gas ferries now, making sure that five new ferries are added, which are far above the level that you tend to have when it comes to phasing in new ferries. It's because it's absolutely right, as the representative here says, that there is a need for some replacements in the Norwegian ferry fleet, and it's important that we have a good highway link. This is part of the infrastructure both for people who live there, and for people who work there. The state road authority has an overview of which links there is a greatest need to do something in relation to them. When we have then chosen to prioritise this connection high and we have run the round that has now been run, it is because it is one of the most important connections we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1157	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘St.meld. No 15 states that the costs arising from the state’s core game management are covered. [[2003-2004]] The people have a good idea for this, but the money is to be used for paid work. The municipality of Elverum received NOK 10 000 in the year, while the municipality’s barrage of wild game hunting teams so far have an unmet claim of approx. NOK 76 000. This is not particularly true for the municipality of Elverum, but applies to all municipalities affected by predatory problems. Does the Council believe it is right that the harvesting of predators that do harm should be carried out in the same way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1166	I want, like the Storting, to make the management of predatory game more similar to the management of other species. In order to achieve this, the regulation of stocks shall, as far as possible, take place through the use of licence and quota hunting, not by way of damages. Using license and quota hunting will allow local hunters to hunt predators in line with the other huntable species. For such hunting forms, there will be no compensation for the costs associated with the killing of predatory game. When the damage is caused, I would like to make it clear that this is a tool that can be used to stop or prevent acute damage to the buff and tamrein where it is not possible to prevent any other way. The compensation for damage caused by local killings is covered within the framework of the means of prevention and mitigation. The compensation shall cover the actual costs of the killing attempt. There is no way to use the compensation for salary or the loss of labour of the locally organised hunters in connection with the implementation of field rights. The majority voted on this issue in 1997. A large number of votes voted in line with current practice. This practice has continued in the Roofing Game Notice, which was handled by the Stortinget in May this year. In addition, it is open so that the county councillors can use discretionary tools for local felling. After I have been informed by the County of Hedmark, such an allocation has been granted to the South-Eastern region, which also includes Elverum. Finally, I would like to point out that from April next year, there will be the new regional predators who will be given the primary responsibility for the allocation of funds to cover the actual costs associated with harm-reduction attempts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1177	I thank you for your answer. It is now the case that local statesmen have received funds, and they have also distributed these funds. But, as the Minister for the Environment himself says, it is not possible to cover the actual costs that you have, despite the fact that it says so. The Ministry of the Environment itself says: Fell trials are normally conducted by a local fallout team appointed by the municipality. It seems that the Ministry of the Environment takes it for granted that in a few hours' notice members of the said hunting teams take 14 days' unpaid work to do a job for the state, and it is a little strange that funds are allocated to the organisation and administration of the killing team, but not to the tasks they are going to perform. Why is there no money for this, as in these cases it is the job itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1184	I think what the representative Hult is dealing with shows how reasonable the conversion that has been made through the last wild game message is, just that we're adding a quota and license hunt. That's what's supposed to be our main tool to get the policy we have on this, according to what's in the Robbery message. Obviously, what we're going to use politically here now will be licence and quota hunting. So in those cases that we're forced to use the damage trap, it's given the means at our disposal, but it's going to be to cover the actual costs. But I believe that in the long term, including with the new predatory game policy that has been set up, this will be a smaller and smaller challenge, precisely because it is licence and quota hunting that will take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1189	I thank you for your answer. I have also read the message that exists, and I also see the solutions that the Minister for the Environment uses here, with quota hunting and licence hunting. But today's issue is and remains unresolved. There has been a lot of hunting for pests for which killing has been authorised, and there are a lot of municipalities that have now ruled out local killings where people may have had 20 days of unpaid work in the forest to trap an animal for which permission for killing has been granted by the state. It is quite unreasonable that these hunters should pay for this themselves, as it is a task imposed on them by a higher body. Wouldn't it be natural to make sure that at least what has been done is cleaned up before you set guidelines for what's coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1196	The state is in charge. It is not the case that all responsibility is left to the municipalities when it concerns the collection of pests. Among other things, the SNO, the State's natural supervision, is significant if assistance is requested from the SNO. There's also some case where the SNO is given the assignment. So the state is involved and takes responsibility through the SNO. So we're involved in covering the actual costs of hunting teams. This is a policy on which there is broad agreement in the Storting. But the most pleasant thing about it is that we have now been given a change in the predatory game policy that will make this an increasingly smaller challenge, because we are now adding to a much higher level of licence and quota hunting, which does not entail costs either for the local hunting team or for the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1203	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-27.ana.ud698e1214	There is no record.
