ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e54	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to the main speakers of each group and five replies to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who are on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e63	The Financial Committee has examined Ot.prp. No 34, which is an aggregate proposition with five different tax changes proposed by the Government: publication of tax lists the possibility for the equality and charging authorities to require control information from banks to require new rules in the Tax Payments Act on the collection of control information from third parties changes in the obligation to pay an employer’s fee for humanitarian work abroad changes in the Law on Artists’ Taxes. It is such that the Government has obtained a majority for all its proposals for amendments. I would like to draw up and comment on two of the issues. First, publication of the tax lists. The majority of the Committee agrees to limit the scope for publication. Public tax lists shall remain transparent but the mass delivery and distribution system shall cease to exist. The tax lists should therefore remain available, but they should only contain information on the name, place of birth, year of birth, wealth, income and tax compensation. Information on the date of birth, street address and tax class is removed. The lists shall not contain information on persons with a blocked address. There will now be fewer information in the lists, and they will stay online for only three weeks. We will have a good balance between openness and transparency on the one hand and privacy considerations and the danger of abuse on the other. The second issue I want to raise is the issue of the employer's fee for employees of mission organisations and humanitarian organisations working outside. The background to the amendment proposal was that it was revealed that the practice followed by the mission organisations has not had a clear legal base and that the regulations in this area have been unclear. When it was called the one-year rule, such as This includes the tax liability of Nordics abroad, was dealt with in the spring of 2002, and the case of an employer’s fee was also mentioned. In the opinion of the Financial Committee, an overall committee said: ‘The Committee points out that the unclear regulatory provisions may have contributed to the creation of uncertainties related to the extent of the obligation to pay labour taxes, etc. and thus that the practice of the rules may have become heterogeneous. The Committee assumes that the uncertainties in question will be removed and that taxable persons and taxpayers will not suffer unfairly as the authorities have made unclear rules.’;» In dealing with this case, a broad majority, consisting of all parties outside SV, has shown that the Storting does not want any change in the charging calculation compared to what has been practice for years. The amendment of the law gives clear and clear rules. The broad political commitment demonstrates a broad political will to provide good and predictable framework conditions. This amendment provides clear support for the practices that have taken place. It has never been intended that the mission organisations should pay the employer’s fees for their misioners. It has not been intended, nor should it be the intention of the legislator. Or in another way: yes, it was, and it is, the intention to exempt employers’ fees from employers’ fees to the organisations. The exemption from the payment of an employer’s fee for persons working in humanitarian and philanthropic work is generally made and treated in a non-discriminatory way by mission organisations and humanitarian organisations. That is to say, in addition to the organisation of missions, it is also to be extended to all non-governmental organisations which have posted workers for more than two years in order to carry out humanitarian and philanthropic work. It is right to treat all organisations equally. Finally, I would like to recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e104	As the position shows, in the Labour Party we end up with the Government and the majority of the committee on most points. At one point, the Labour Party is clear, and there is limited publication of the tax lists. Transparency and publicity on income and wealth in the context of equality have a long and solid tradition in Norway. Today's system represents a form of social control with the governmental powers. In order to ensure transparency of the functioning and outcome of the tax system, it is also important to have it fully published. Historically, it has also been shown that published tax lists have revealed several biases and unfairness, which have next formed the basis for societal debates and adjustments in our tax system. The Workers' Party has not been able to restrict the publication of tax lists at any time in the past. Transparency also gives an advantage, we believe, of information on income and tax matters that are important in the societal debate. However, this does not prevent the Workers' Party from being clearly critical of an accelerating element of awareness-raising and commercialisation of the tax list information through resale. However, the problem is that the introduction of a ban does not provide a solution here. Complete secrecy – that’s not what has been proposed, I just want to underline it – will and can also provide the basis for speculation and dissemination of selectively distorted sizes without allowing the public to control the accuracy of the information. That is also another point that I am very critical of. It is that the Government proposes that the publication be regulated by the Equation Act now and that the disclosure law should not apply to transparency requirements in these cases. I believe that transparency in public documents should be enshrined as much as possible in the Public Health Act, so that the most possible exceptions can be read out. The more special laws that override the disclosure law, the more the entire principle of disclosure is eroded. Enough about it – limited publication we have been and are critical of, which is also reflected in the comment we have together with SV in the setting. I expect that voting, among other things section 8-8 Tax list, item 2, is added so that we and SV vote for item 2, which goes on the special relationship related to the name and postal address of some taxpayers and problems with it. We'll vote for that point. The other points we are voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e117	The rapporteur has explained the matter and the majority's position, which is also the Government's proposal. The matter is therefore only a few comments from the Right-hand side. Norwegian administration is based on public opinion and transparency. It shall prevent abuse of power and facilitate social control. The interpretation of tax lists is part of this and the plan has been for a long time. However, the fact that the scheme has lasted for a long time cannot be a main argument for continuing with the same practice of publishing the lists and publishing searchable country-wide lists on the Internet. A lot has happened since 1863, not least on the technology and social control side. It cannot then be a worthy purpose for everyone and everyone to enjoy at all times the income and wealth of other persons and also a range of other personal data, information which can be linked and systematised for purposes other than social control. Privacy means that something is tightening up. So you don't prohibit publication. The tax lists shall remain public. However, some measures are proposed which address the extent of the information included in the tax lists and how the equality authorities can make the information available. The aim of the changes, as I said, is to strengthen privacy. They're thinking, like the others, that the lists aren't supposed to have a birthday, an address and a tax class, and that they're only spent three weeks on the Internet. Otherwise, you have to go to the authorities. The mass delivery will be terminated, and the lists will be published only once. It satisfies the need for control, while, if it is a parliamentary expression, which is now and then going on, it becomes difficult. As an instrument against financial crime, it is proposed that banks and financial institutions have access to this other information. Otherwise, the Right is satisfied that the rules for payment or not payment, which is what this case is about, of the employer’s fee for work abroad have now become clear and unambiguous. Equal treatment of religious and humanitarian organisations in this field makes sense. That the proposal leads to an improvement in the economy of humanitarian organisations cannot harm anyone, rather the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e128	The step-by-step party joins the case leader's announcements in most areas, but we also have some own comments that I would like to elaborate more closely. When it comes to the proposal for changes to the rules on the publication of tax lists, this is a matter for which the Progress Party has previously worked and for which we have also promoted a Document No. Eight proposals on the subject. So the government proposal in this case, and the plural setting, is a step in the right direction, but it's not as far as we've gone in the past. We simply mean that there is no great need for the tax lists to be public, and we also believe that the disadvantages of such publication are greater than the benefits. We also have confidence in the tax authorities, that they are able to carry out the necessary control without deciding that we have some publicity and some kind of neighbouring control to ensure proper tax access. Specific interpretation of the lists on the Internet may lead to abuse. However, we have noted the wording of the proposal for a second paragraph of Section 8-8(3) of the Equation Act, which states: «The Tax Directorate may make the tax list available on the Internet during the period of publication in the Equation Office.» When the multiple uses the word 'can' instead of the word'shall', it should also be able to open up so that this practice can be reconsidered without the need for a change in law. In view of this, and given that there are no political pluralities, at least not yet, for an extra tightening, the Progress Party ends up at the setting at this point. When it comes to the proposal for changes in the relation of the equality and tax authorities to require control information from banks, etc., we support the proposal that it be such a right and that the equality and tax authorities may require this control information from the banks. But when it comes to costs, because this is also a cost question, we are of the opinion that for the information that is not electronically archived, the banks should be paid for their expenditure on a self-cost basis. We think it's a right and reasonable starting point that those who require the information also pay the costs of providing such information to the individual credit institution. The last point I want to comment on is the proposal for changes to the rules on employers' fees for humanitarian organisations. We agree that there was and is a need for clarification, and therefore support the proposal to exempt employers' fees for mission organisations and humanitarian organisations. However, we are of the opinion that such an exemption should also be assessed for all others who have a working life for more than two years abroad. We also propose that this be assessed. The party of progress is generally aware of the fact that Norwegian workers are encouraged to gain international experience in taking up work abroad. We believe that it will benefit both Norway and Norwegian industry in the long term, and we believe that it is very important that the governance also facilitates this. In this context, of course, it is important that we have a competitive tax system for the Nordics who take up work abroad, and we want to determine whether the tax system we have today is competitive when it comes to these, or whether it should improve. Finally, I would like to include the Progress Party's proposals in the vote by the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e150	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e153	I will comment on two aspects of the proposal in which SV is unfortunately in a minority and oppose the recommendation from the Committee. First, to the strict rules on the publication of the tax lists. The majority’s proposal would lead to the public law not being applicable to information requirements on income and tax matters. Of course, SV is inconsistent with that. It's supposed to be openness around the tax lists, we think. Having an open society with information that is available, and journalists who use openness in a journalistic way can, of course, be a burden on individuals. But the price of not having openness is much higher. The size should not edit any web newspapers or paper newspapers. That's the editor's office. It is an editorial responsibility to deal with the information that lies there, in a good way, in line with the press's own ethical code. Every year, we have many good headlines that have seen the search light on the biased distribution of income and wealth in our society, which have seen the searchlights that the differences are increasing, and that have seen the search lights on weak aspects of the tax system. The majority of the press are now constrained by the possibility of making such analyses and similar articles. It may make life more comfortable for those tax collectors who have something to hide, and it may also make life more comfortable for a government that has a tax policy that increases the diversity of society. Now leave revealing statements in the newspapers, such as: from World Gang on 5 February this year, ‘West is increasing the most’, the income gap in Oslo is increasing, on 29 February this year, ‘The differences in Oslo will increase’, writes VG, and the Evening Post on 13 October last year, ‘Women’s income is falling backwards’. Editorial notices are based on electronically available tax lists, notices that are impossible with the new legislation. So to the other proposal that SV opposes, exemption from employer's fee for mission companies and humanitarian organisations. The case spokesperson said that it never meant that the mission organisations would pay the employer's fee. Minister of Finance Foss said something different two years ago. Then Stortinget treats Ot.prp. No 50 for 2001-2002, the Ministry stated in a letter signed by the Council of State Foss: ‘The Ministry considers that in the future a specific exemption from the employer’s fee should not be granted for mision activities.’ And: ‘The Ministry will therefore not recommend the adoption of a specific exemption for mision activities abroad.’ The case-speaker claimed something else. Unfortunately, the department is no longer in line with itself, but claims that it is in the light of the Committee's comments at that time. SV was on that note, but he has interpreted quite differently. SV assumes responsibility for the fact that we as the board of directors have operated with unclear rules, and believes it is a problem issue for the past. So the bill that is being discussed today, and which unfortunately gets multiple numbers, has a future of its own. One does not deal with what has been between 1967 and 1998, but assumes that an exemption applies to the future. So we're changing the fuzzy rules in 2002. The mission organisations were informed in 1998 that there was no reason in the rules or regulations to refrain from paying employers’ fees, and that if we think that we should support the important humanitarian work carried out by these organisations, we should do so above the government budget and not by stowing out the tax and tax rules. That also said the multiples last a couple of months ago, when we discussed another suggestion to prowl. That's when the VAT code we're talking about was. Today's proposal thinks I'm not targeted. On the contrary, it is a premiere of an organisation that has been late to pay what they have been charged and told to pay from 1998. Then you can almost wonder if the Government has intended to treat others who, regardless of their purpose, have chosen not to adhere to the rules that we have said should apply to everyone in this society. I have to say that I regret that the plurality is no longer in principle in relation to the committee comment that we had. With the very clear writing that we got from the ministry two years ago, I can't believe that one should be able to claim that one takes responsibility for exempting them from the future, when the point was to help them with the burden that had to come when one is done with the legal system, and help them to pay what has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e171	The tax lists are probably the most recent public publication in Norway. There are two principles that are important to the Center Party, and that I will mention today. Firstly, the tax lists must be public. And secondly, the tax lists have to provide correct information. The lists are currently an instrument to camouflage who has very good advice but who are nevertheless free passengers in the welfare community. The centre agrees that it is time for more detailed driving rules for publishing the tax lists on the Internet. The Central Party considers that the Ministry has come up with appropriate limitations in terms of searchability in the published lists, limitation in the time period for publication and in the mass delivery of the lists. The disclosure of the tax lists is an important principle and the discrepancy of the media in the tax system based on accurate information in the tax lists must not be prevented. Experience with the rules currently adopted will show whether the rules become too strict, as the press organisations claim. The centre party will be willing to review some aspects of the legislation if it appears that the criticism is justified. I have mentioned several times the fact that the tax lists contain serious errors. The lists for personal taxpayers include a imputed tax on 28 p.m. dividends that are not required. For 2002, the tax lists state that the persons who receive dividends — and many of them are very wealthy — pay NOK 11.7 billion more in taxes than they actually do. I am very surprised and disappointed that it has not been possible to have a majority in order for the tax lists to provide correct information on that point. No one who reads these lists has the opportunity to see who is listed with too high contributions to the community, while they can actually be free passengers in the welfare community. If I perceive the government correctly, it wants to continue for another three years that this most read public publication contains so gross and misleading errors. I am also amazed that the media is unquestionably passing on these errors. But they can be excused that there's going to be a lot of imagination to suspect the Tax Directorate and the tax lists to give the wrong amount of tax for so many.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e188	Let me first clarify the obvious misunderstanding in which the last speaker blamed himself by saying that the tax lists contain ‘groove’ errors. The representative refers to the so-called remuneration method for the payment of tax on share dividends. This is in line with today's rules, in other words a regulatory framework established by the 1992 tax reform, with strong and enthusiastic support from the Centre Party. The EU has now correctly stated that the current remuneration method, because it does not treat non-residents and non-residents, needs to be changed. I am grateful for the support of the Centre Party for this obvious EU regulatory adaptation, but this has nothing to do with tax lists. So you don't change the tax rules when you publish tax lists. It's pretty fundamental to keep an eye on the Biggest. Then to the debate on the matter today, namely tax lists. The tax lists shall remain transparent. The government proposes some restrictions on the rules on the publication of the tax lists and broadly endorses them. The main objective is to strengthen privacy. The tax lists should remain public, as I said, but information on the date of birth, street address and tax class is removed from the tax lists, so that only the name, postal address, year of birth, wealth, income and tax offset are shown. Persons with a blocked address are also proposed to be removed from the tax lists. It also gets even wider support. In addition to the traditional use of the tax lists in the paper version in the EQS, tax lists will be posted on the Internet site of the tax haven with strict application restrictions. Thelaying period is limited to three weeks for both types oflaying. It is proposed that electronic reading of the paper lists should not be permitted and that the whole or part of the tax lists should be provided, for example. to the media for further sale, or to marketing establishments, proposed for liquidation. However, banks and credit information companies shall continue to have the tax registers delivered for control purposes. They shall also be granted access to the taxpayer’s personal identification number. It is proposed that the tax lists be drawn up only in the autumn, so that the «our» scheme will cease in June. The latter is quite necessary, because the ‘our outlay’ represents a proposal for an equation which will obviously have to contain some errors systematically, because some requirements, such as: whether the sharing of debts between spouses/partners will not necessarily be included. Tax class 2 requirements are examples of other things that will not be included. So it's obviously misleading, and everyone knows that. It's part of the system of automatic equations, which is an advantage, but which will contain some errors. So to the question of the working conditions of the press. The representative of Grande Røys was concerned that the press would not get any work. In fact, I have the confidence in the press that a three-week interpretation would actually be possible for awake journalists to get hold of. We have examples of shorter expenses than that, which the press definitely gets if there's interest in and competence to know what to look for. But then you have to know what to look for, and then you have to, among other things. journalists understand the difference between gross and net income. It's not that stupid, because there are quite big differences presented when you publish this. The representative of Grande Røys also mentioned that there will be no longer any difference in the income of women and men. It's all wrong. That statistics is currently available to the representative and all others in the statistics of the Central Statistical Office. You get questions to the Ministry of Finance, at the latest from the representative Lund, about this, but we're picking up our figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, and that's what anyone can do. It's open on the web 24 hours a day. That's where you can get the statistics. You don't have to have any equations to know about it. Otherwise, I am absolutely interested in the fact that tax relations are to be examined and obvious distortions are to be looked at. But I think you're exaggerating the basis of the tax lists for that kind of research, to put it that way. And the researchers don't really just use tax records for it, either, because they contain some systematic sources of error, which are again based on the law. So the question of paying employers' contributions for work abroad. The Government proposes to amend the rules on the obligation to pay employers’ fees for humanitarian work abroad. The proposal does not involve the payment of an employer’s fee for persons sent abroad by a mission company, association or humanitarian organisation to carry out – and there is an important additional clarification – religious, humanitarian or philanthropic work there for at least two years. So there are some constraints that I've now had. The proposal does not include exemptions from the activities of business or domestic work of organisations. Of course, these regulatory changes have no retroactive effect, but they apply from here onward.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e205	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e209	It is not true that what I said about errors in the tax lists was a manifest misunderstanding. Whether there is a remuneration method now or not, it has hardly been the intention of the Storting that the readers of the tax lists have to examine both here and there to find out that what is stated as a tax is not the same as the tax paid by the recipients of dividends. The tax figures in the tax lists are wrong for a number of people. The sum of personal taxes in the lists for 2002 is 11.7 billion too large. Either as a journalist or as a ‘common’ person, a person should be informed by reading the tax lists. That's what I've brought up in Stortinget. The majority of the population have not agreed to instruct the Minister of Finance and the Ministry to change this. For my part, I had to have several contacts with the Tax Directorate to meet the right person who could confirm that this is the case, the errors in the tax lists are actually there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e216	The existence of errors in tax lists cannot be excluded. That's why you have transparency, that's why you have the right to complain, etc. However, the word ‘wrong’, which is also provided by the representative with the adjective ‘grove’, is not comprehensive, because the ways in which the tax payable on dividends is declared are governed by a law adopted by the Norwegian Storing. Then it is not exhaustive to call it ‘wrong’ when the Tax Directorate is dealing with law decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e221	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 428]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e239	The proposal for a currency register law implies the establishment of a new currency register to replace the current BRAVO register. The currency register shall hold information on the exchange and transfer of means of payment in and out of Norway. For amounts in excess of NOK 25000, individual transactions shall be reported, while for smaller transactions only aggregated sums shall be reported per. month(s) per month land. It is a unanimous committee that is in favour of Stortingen in this matter, but the committee has made a minor amendment to the legal text and also has some comments on the proposal from the Ministry. This new register will be more extensive than the BRAVO register and will contain both individual and company business number numbers, which are not included in the BRAVO register. The Committee takes this into account, but stresses, in the form of a comment, that the financial industry must not be subject to unreasonable costs during the start-up phase. Such an extension of this register will entail additional costs, and it is the Committee's intention and wish to achieve the most smooth transition possible, so that the costs of both the financial institutions and then the customers of the banks do not become unreasonable. With regard to access to this new registry, an extension has also been made. This applies, inter alia, to: that police access is no longer limited to having access only to Ecocrim. An overall committee also takes note of this, but stresses that this access should not be misused and that the ministry must ensure that only those in need of access receive it. So it shouldn't be possible to go in and check for fun, for example. how much the neighbor has spent on vacation in the South and so on. Only those people who really need access to the register get it. The Committee is also pleased that the Ministry has established that this law does not impose reporting obligations on transactions by the Nordics resident in Svalbard. As regards the proposal for a purpose paragraph, the Committee agrees with the assessment of the need for such a purpose paragraph. However, the Committee is of the opinion that the term ‘profit-based crime and other serious crime’ is unnecessarily long and can therefore be replaced with the somewhat simpler term ‘crime’. This will make it clear in a clear and clear way that the aim of the law is to prevent and combat all crime, regardless of whether or not crime is profit motivated. However, we assume that this change will not have a significant practical impact, as crime that can be prevented and combated by the information contained in the currency register will in most cases also be profit-based. The exception that has been mentioned is terrorist activity, but this would probably also initially fall within the concept of ‘other serious crime’. In addition to this change, the legal text will be adopted as set by the Government. So all the decisions seem to be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e260	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 431]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e276	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 432]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e284	Odelstinget would then be ready to vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e291	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward three proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to ensure that the Equation and Fee Authorities pay a fee equivalent to self-cost when collecting information that is not electronically archived. ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of the introduction of an exemption from the employer’s tax for all those who have a stay of more than 2 years abroad.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a review of the competitiveness of the tax system for the Nordics taking up work abroad.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e597	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they are against No. One, three, four, and it's going to add up to these first. The vote will then be taken over No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e685	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e698	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e708	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e867	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e877	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e922	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27-lower.ana.ud313e932	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
