ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e30	Today’s debate on the EEA also illustrates that the bulk of the population shows disappointingly little willingness to discuss the challenges faced by the EEA Agreement by the Norwegian People’s Government and the depth of the agreement’s intervention in Norwegian society – much deeper than the assurances given by the responsible state councils in 1992. The insurance received from the negotiators of the contract was simply not kept. The EEA Agreement was intended as a transitional arrangement in its time. I have a certain feeling that the agreement was meant to apply until the Norwegian people had corrected the “error” that occurred when we voted no in 1972. As a transitional arrangement, the agreement could be good. As a permanent solution, it's an accident. In time, it appears that there are many who either plan to go or have already gone into the mind box in the case of EU membership. An open and open debate is called for. In our opinion, a lot of people should think about the EEA. Last year, the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy presented a report in which Norway’s various connectivity opportunities to the EU have been thoroughly explored. NUPI concluded that a Swiss model is a realistic alternative both to the EEA and to EU membership. Switzerland thanks, as is known, to the negotiated EEA Agreement and negotiated instead seven bilateral agreements on what Switzerland regards as the relevant sectors. In contrast to the EEA Agreement, the Swiss Agreement does not contain obligations to adapt Swiss legislation to EU law. Switzerland may therefore refrain from taking over EU laws in the seven areas of the agreement. Swiss NHO, Economiesuisse, has conducted an investigation into EU membership where the organisation determines that neither EU membership nor EEA agreement is a better alternative than the agreement they have. The organisation’s clear recommendation is to build on the bilateral trade agreements with the EU. In other words, Swiss business is content. A Swiss model is, in our opinion, a good and realistic alternative to the EEA. I therefore regard it as extremely arrogant of those actors in Norwegian politics and the Norwegian press who have rejected a form of agreement that a European country already has with the EU. The government's claim that there is no alternative to the EEA has undoubtedly narrowed our negotiating room during the work on enlargement. Such a setting has definitely not strengthened our negotiating position. Rather, it may seem that the government has been prepared to buy out of the problems. One of the results is that Norway will contribute over DKK 2 billion annually to development projects in the enlarged EU. Half of this is to be communicated through a separate Norwegian financial instrument, which the other EFTA members do not contribute to. There's really reason to ask questions about the size of this contribution. The government tries to defend the amount by arguing for solidarity. To that there are two things to say. Firstly, if solidarity with Eastern European applicant countries was so close to the heart of the Republic, why could these transfers not have been initiated too long, completely independent of the negotiations with the EU? And secondly, how do Christian People's Party and Government defend their new aid profile? This new aid profile thus means that Poland is the second largest beneficiary of Norwegian aid. Poland will receive more than 900 million. kr annually. In comparison, one of Norway’s cooperating countries, Mozambique, receives 210 million. DKK in 2004. Tanzania, the main co-operation country receiving the most reliable aid, is set at 250 million. kr. I believe that the so-called poverty orientation of Norwegian aid in this area comes in a strange light. The centre party is committed to providing assistance to our neighbours in the east, but we ask questions about the amount and the way this is to be managed. It is beyond doubt that the administrative apparatus both in Norway and in the recipient countries needs to be considerably strengthened in order to deal with these tasks, and I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to provide information on how these funds should be handled by the Norwegian side. It certainly does not seem that this work is on the rails, despite the fact that the applications will start to flow in already three months. In this respect, it is tempting to recall that the Court of Auditors in the EU has established that much of the Norwegian EEA quota in the 1990s disappeared due to errors, shortcomings and inefficiency. The audit is highly critical of eight out of ten Norwegian-funded projects. This promises poorly for the management of DKK 2 billion a year in countries where democracy has much bigger start-up problems than the countries that received support in the 1990s. Several aspects of the enlarged EEA Agreement are weak. The weakest point is fish. The free access of Norway to eastern Europe for seafood is replaced by Protocol 9 to the EEA Agreement, which lays down more restrictive export conditions. It is quite amazing that Norway ends up in a situation where we have to pay dearly to achieve less market access than we had in the past. In order to replace the loss of free market access for seafood, Norway has obtained duty-free quotas for various seafood products. In this process, Norway only managed to obtain allowances for three out of 30 products we demanded. In addition, the EU refused to approve Norway’s export figures to the EU candidate country, which should be the basis for the production of allowances. That's why all the allowances were less than the average of our historical trade in these products. In comparison, Norway received quotas on all the products requested when Spain, Portugal, Sweden, Finland and Austria entered the EU, and the EU then accepted the Norwegian basic figures. A calculation carried out by Carl-Erik Schulz and Fritz Holte shows that if we cancel the EEA Agreement, we will at least have an additional export tax burden to the EU of 938 million today. kr. Today, we export 1.8 billion kroner to the new candidate countries. The same calculation suggests that if we calculate an average customs duty of 20 pst, which is probably too high, on trade with the candidate countries entering the EU, an additional customs burden of 360 million is added. kr – i.e. a total of approx. DKK 1.3 billion. This amount is still well below the NOK 1.8 billion we are now going to pay into the EU cash register. In addition to the Central Party, LO and NHO pushed out with criticism that the Government would not use WTO legislation to prevent increased customs duties on fish. Increased customs duties are in breach of the WTO Agreement and would therefore trigger compensation as obtained from previous enlargements of the EU. Article XIV 5a of the GATT Agreement requires that the customs burden on the fish we sell today should not increase – ‘hall not on the whole be higher or more restrictive’ is the wording. The Central Party considers that this conflict could have been complained of by the WTO dispute resolution mechanism, such as: Chile has done towards the EU in a fish export case. In our opinion, we have never received a completely plausible explanation as to why this negotiation card was so early rejected by the Government. The agreement opens up the possibility for fish from EU vessels to transit through Norway without being traded through the Norwegian sales system as today. This will lead to changes in the raw fish regulation, and it will undermine Norwegian fish processing because Norwegian processing has lower conditions of competition. And in the long term, Norwegian and Icelandic fishing vessels will probably require the same advantage, namely to send fish directly to EU countries without going into Norwegian sales teams. Another concern relates to the control of the allowances rules. It is uncertain whether the EU will accept control by Norwegian sales teams of EU vessels supplying fish for transit. That is why our proposal No. 1 along with SV. The Central Party considers that Norway should avail itself of the possibility of transitional arrangements under the EEA Agreement in connection with the opening of an enlarged common labour market. The desire for a step-by-step and controlled opening is highly legitimate and based on a desire for the most orderly and fair treatment of workers coming here to the country, in order to avoid, among other things, cases of unworthy treatment that we have unfortunately seen in agriculture and construction. As enlargement approaches, we see that more and more EU countries are imposing restrictions. Most EEA countries will use tougher methods of slowing down labour migration than the Norwegian government suggests. This concerns Denmark, Finland, Germany, France, Austria and Belgium, and action is also expected in Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands and Greece. Sweden counts on the buttons. The Central Party expects the Stortinget to take this into account and to take the necessary measures in the context of the proceedings of the Municipal Committee. The extension of the EEA Agreement takes place as a consequence of the accession of the Eastern European Accession Countries to the European Union from 1 May this year. The centre party respects their choices. But the centre party wants alternatives to the EEA. A ten-year EEA projection is not a good idea. We recognise, however, that after all, it will not be a majority to find an alternative to the existing agreement. At least we don't get that majority today, and that's why we want to go to the seventh and last, if our proposal to find alternatives falls, go into the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e64	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e67	I wonder if my summary of Åslaug Hagas' articles is correct. Firstly, the central party wants to terminate the EEA Agreement in the first place. Therefore, this proposal that a non-acceptance of the agreement should continue to be negotiated. This means, in practice, that one rejects the agreement, and may later ratify it if the proposal falls. Secondly, the central part of the game has been very hard to figure out, because the Swiss option is a good one. I don't understand why you're in favour of a proposal to sort out additional options. And if it is that the Center Party still wants to figure out additional alternatives, maybe Åslaug Haga can go on to the question I asked Bjørn Jacobsen earlier today: What is a better way? The government must have a guideline on what is better at negotiating. And finally, I never thought that the government was going to try to get the money to go to the EEA/EU, approved as an aid money, like ODA money. So this is going to be a strange comparison. After all, we can compare almost everything that goes above the state budget with what goes to developing countries. Åslaug Haga does not mean that it is possible to say that what goes to Poland is aid money?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e78	The reason why the Senterpartiet wants further investigation of the Swiss model is that of course it is not possible for Norway to copy the Swiss solution. The Swiss solution is tailored to Swiss conditions and to the needs of a clean and good relationship with the EU. If Norway is to establish a form of agreement with the EU, then we will have to go in and look at the sectors in which we need to enter into and establish bilateral agreements. That's what the Center Party has in mind, and we can share them with you. At the same time, this is a demanding work, and we think it would be right to have it worked out in all its width. I think there is considerable agreement between the yes-page and the no-page on the disadvantages with the EEA. Democracy is the leaping point. The Swiss solution is a much better alternative to the democratic processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e87	Åslaug Haga said, ‘As a permanent solution it is’ – i.e. the EEA Agreement – ‘an accident’. If I understood correctly, it is this accident the Centre party will vote to extend in today's meeting, correctly only subsidiaryly, but it is nevertheless quite brave to want to lead Norway directly into the 'unsuccess'. It is clear from the Central Party's programme for the current ageing period that the EEA Agreement will be replaced by a Swiss-style agreement. ‘On this basis, the centre lot will terminate the EEA Agreement pursuant to Article 127 of the Agreement.’» It must then be allowed to ask whether, by voting, the Centre Party shall not only vote in favour of two proposals which mutually exclude each other in their content, but also vote in favour of the Bastisen proposal on behalf of the Coastal Party, which says: ‘The Government requests the Government to take the necessary steps to notify Norway out of the EEA.’ The proposal is as new from the programme of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e104	When the Central Party believes that the EEA agreement as a solution for Norway will be an accident in the long term, it is linked to the fact that the agreement is increasingly linking us closer and closer to the EU. It's an agreement that, by its very nature, is boundless. It's a dynamic appointment. We never control what is the content of the future EEA Agreement. We are totally dependent on what the EU has to think about, to know what is actually the content of the agreement. So we are perfectly commended for developments in the European Union. We are obliged to follow up on all the ideas and initiatives that come from the European Union. This is where the Swiss model is so much better, because one will have control. One will have a defined agreement, and one will have better democratic procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e109	Åslaug Haga did not have the time to go to answer the question I asked. Therefore, I would like to give her another opportunity to answer the question. How does this huge blackout of the EEA Agreement relate to the vote the Central Party intends to take at the end of the debate? Why do you suggest that you investigate something that you seem to know very well from before? Do you need the government's help to figure out what you've been programming yourself a long time ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e116	I don't think anyone in this room is in any doubt about what is the central party's position on the EEA Agreement. We do not want an EEA agreement in the long term. We want a different form of association with the EU. Now the debate often gives the impression that if we cancel the EEA Agreement, we will be hanging and dangling completely in the loose air. That's probably not right. We will then go back to the old free trade agreement. We've had the EEA for ten years. The EEA has, as I was inside instead, evolved enormously over that period. There will be a need to look into which sectors we need to have our own agreements with the EU that go beyond the old free trade agreement. That's why this needs to be figured out. I have just answered the representative of Blankenborg that it is a demanding process to develop the option. We have some thoughts about how it's going to be, and it's quite possible if you just have a hint of creativity and openness.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e123	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e126	The Coastal Party considers the EEA Agreement as a Husband Agreement, where Norway is pressured to accept different directives and rules contrary to important national interests. I mention in fleng: patents on life, the Children's Food Directive, the Gas Directive, fish transit and the winding-up of a differentiated employer's fee. The EEA Agreement also undermines Norway’s ability to ensure national ownership of natural resources, key enterprises, dwellings and land. Although poor for Norway, the EEA Agreement is much less harmful than any Norwegian membership of the EU. In fact, we still have some autonomy in agriculture and fisheries, and both of these industries are of great importance to the districts. When the EEA Agreement is now proposed to be extended to 10 new EU countries, the main content of the Agreement is not changed. However, the conditions reached in the negotiations on the enlarged EEA are far from satisfactory. We pay more in development aid to new EU members than any EU country, and more than that would cost Norwegian companies compensation for customs burdens that they would have to face. We must open our labour market to workers from new Member States. We have not had our duty-free access for fish to the new Member States, and the EU requires that EEA vessels have the right to transit for the fishing catches they land in Norwegian ports. The SV and the Centre Party shall be indemnified for their proposal that the Government resume negotiations with a view to removing the point of fish transit in the agreement. They shall be commended for proposing that the Government investigate real alternatives to the EEA. However, the wording of the proposal for an alternative trade and cooperation agreement with the EU is somewhat vague. The coastal party therefore promotes two proposals which have been distributed to the representatives. We are interested in showing that there are actually many alternatives to EU and EEA membership. The alternative of the Coastal Party is a purely trade agreement, which is based on what we already have with the EU countries and which has not been terminated. The EEA Agreement has been added and is based on the already existing agreements. Such an agreement would enable national ownership of natural resources and key enterprises to be ensured. The free movement of fish products will be achieved in the long term through negotiations within the World Trade Organisation. We therefore do not have to sell ourselves to the EU to achieve this. In the setting, the Progress Party writes that it was wrong not to seek to include agricultural products in order to gain better market access for fish. Is this an attempt to set the different district industries against each other? Or is it just another attempt to reduce the protection of Norwegian agricultural production? In any case, the Progress Party affirms its position as the most district enemy party in Norway. The coastal party believes that the districts should have the most possible legs to stand on. It is therefore important to build a strong political alliance between the different district industries. The last thing to do is to play them out against each other. The Coastal Party wishes the Norwegian authorities to have control of their own labour market. We are therefore opposed to Norwegian participation in the free labour market both in the current EU and in the enlarged EU. From the setting we see that this part of the EEA Agreement will be discussed later. We think it is funny to consider the actual ratification of the enlarged EEA Agreement before this important point has been clarified. The Coastal Party will subsidize proposals for transitional arrangements for Norway's entry into the enlarged EU single labour market. We sincerely hope that there will be a majority for such transitional arrangements, even if they are of limited importance. I would remind the House that the Hong Kong regime was also a transitional arrangement, but that system is over. We also think it is interesting that the Progress Party has signalled that they are in favour of a free labour market in an enlarged EEA after a transitional period and that the Party considers it appropriate that EEA citizens working in Norway should receive lower wages. The Party of Progress has thus become a party to social dumping. In the Coastal Party, we believe that social dumping will create new class divisions and increase the likelihood of conflict between immigrants and the Nordics. Still new EU countries will have transitional labour market arrangements. This could create an increased pressure in the Norwegian labour market if we do not also protect ourselves. In this situation, the Coastal Party considers it striking that the Government will assess whether Norway will become part of the enlarged EEA labour market as of 1 May 2004. The government considers it appropriate to carefully decorate the legislation on immigration of unskilled workers from outside the EEA. This shall be done through a temporary testing scheme for the remaining EU candidates, Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey. I would like to remind the House that we have a so-called stoppage of immigration, which has been adopted here in Stortinget. The aim of the stoppage was primarily to limit labour migration to Norway. The coastal party will vote against the ratification of the EEA extension agreement. I am addressing the proposals that have been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e155	The representative Steinar Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e158	This is primarily a question of whether or not we should approve the agreements that are on the table. The central party and SV believe that we should not approve the agreement, because the negotiation result is not good enough. In other words, they will reject the agreement, which will lead to that we do not have an EEA agreement. On the other hand, they also say that because we lack alternatives, we have a bad deal. I have not negotiated, but I have very bad to believe that if we had threatened to cancel the EEA Agreement, we would have got a much better result from the EU. But at least that's what's going to happen, but it's not going to be more true. It hangs completely in the air to say that there is a lack of alternatives that has made the agreements not good enough. What is likely to have the same amount to say is the negotiating position and the fact, which has been emphasized here earlier today, that Norway, just as a turn around and turn around on it, must be willing to pay in relation to an agreement that also has smoothing and progress as a goal. It has been said here that the Swiss agreements are very good, because one fails to adapt, that is to say to take over EU legislation. It sounds very strange to me at the right hand end. Then why should one have an appointment? In any case, without an agreement, you will not be able to take over EU legislation. So if Switzerland would avoid taking over EU legislation, it was only to be late to enter into an agreement. Switzerland has concluded an agreement because it wishes to take over EU legislation. That's why the whole deal exists. So one thing in common is that they're just missing the institutions to tie up the contracts. Then one can have different assessments of whether it is better or worse, and then one can assess whether to cancel the EEA Agreement and start with new negotiations that we do not know what will end with, but which will certainly lead us into a period of great uncertainty for Norwegian business anyway, because in that period we will at least not be able to negotiate with any authority. Switzerland has an agreement because they want to take over EU legislation. It's all right. It's possible that SV and the Center Party want a form of agreement where everyone can decide which one wants to take over, but it's a very strange community if everyone wants to decide exactly what is going to apply, and there's no obligation and there's a common law. Then this is not a common area. But it's possible that there's something in the use of words, that one should have a better deal. The centre party and SV disregard that only one should terminate the EEA Agreement and not have any agreement. They want a trade and cooperation agreement, so far it is clear and it should be better. The centre party says it's a matter they want for themselves – where they want to go with that agreement. SV says that it is up to the free research to find out where such an agreement should go. Especially much guidance is not what was said by the two parties, neither for government nor for the others in the hall here. The one will be secret to himself, and the other will give it to free research, and then we will get another seat and guess what will happen to Norway's relationship with the EU further on. But it says, and that's what these two parties have been able to explain about their proposal today. There is also another point I think is worth including, and that has not been commented on by the Central Party, because there is a contrast between Norwegian development cooperation and Norwegian development aid and the EEA Agreement. But it is clear that the money that goes through the EEA Agreement to Poland, the Baltic region and anywhere, is not development aid, and was not. Then there's a smaller amount, and there's no development aid now, even if it's a larger amount. This is to include a completely irrelevant point on the EEA Agreement in the debate. It has nothing to do with development help. It only helps to give the impression that an attempt is being made to water down the profile of Norwegian development aid, and it does not. Finally, the point of social dumping. The Labour Party has argued that it is important to deal with this issue independently of ratification, because we are opposed to social dumping, whether it is used against people coming from Poland, the Baltic or other parts of Central Europe, in relation to people coming from other parts of Europe, or from the North. That is why we want this issue to be dealt with by itself and not as part of the ratification of the EEA Agreement. That's why we, and I also believe the majority in the committee, say that this is a matter that goes by itself in the municipal committee later.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e173	I sat and thought a little through the debate during the lunch break, and then it struck me that I might have been in politics for too long, because now I have been listening to EU debates for 42 years. I have to say that of the debates I've heard in those years, this is one of the most special. I have seen that the Centre Party is against the EU and against the EEA, but despite the 10 years of experience with the EEA Agreement, the Centre Party has no choice but to arrive at a sketch of an alternative. What you've spent all those years on, you might wonder, but it's become so wrong that the Center Party now has to ask EEA members and yes-people for help today to figure out what their position is really about. That's a pretty special situation. We've got the little insight, at least for the Center Party, that they're looking at some sort of Swiss model or ideal, but Åslaug Haga was also very clear that the system that Switzerland has got, we can't use it. There had to be something else that you thought about in that case. I have a feeling that there is probably some kind of unspoken dream, that one should suddenly get an agreement where we have more benefits and the EU less. I think that's boundless naive. In any contractual relationship, it's plus and minus, which we get out of well, and something that the EU gets out better. If the Center Party for a moment thinks you're e.g. is away from the economic challenge, it may not even be possible to read what Switzerland will meet with the negotiating mandate of the EU. There is no need for an investigation to follow-up to the political debate in general. So this really means that in ten years the Center Party has actually not even managed to figure out its position. The center party may have become more and more a party to say no and criticise, but has little ability to build up. I think that's a pity, but then we'll have to move on. That's probably also why the Center Party today actually looks forced, to the seventh and last, subsidiary to vote for what Haga himself characterizes as an accident. You could say a lot about the Bastisen position, but at least it's possible to understand, as opposed to the subsidiary voting in favour of the accident. Now this is so special that it can easily become the main issue in the debate. In that case, it'll be a shame, because we're actually facing a historic decision. This EEA enlargement is part of the European Union, where ten countries that in their history belong close to our part of Europe, now finally are back in the European mainstream and we are able to commit ourselves through the EEA Agreement. We have a contribution of a different nature than others, but Norway too is in a positive way in bringing Europe together, and we are making a significant contribution to achieving it. We will share the same single internal market with challenges, questions and answers, benefits and disadvantages such as: a Hungarian, a Polish or a baler will do. It's politically and ideologically important and right, and so it's in many ways a big and historic day when the Stortinge say yes to that agreement. Everyone knows that the EEA Agreement has its pluses and negatives. Anyone who wants to return to the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee at the time of the adoption of the EEA Agreement will see that the Right for their part was very clear in the warnings about where the agreement was not good enough. But the right hand side, like many other parties in this room, has never doubted that the EEA Agreement is the second best that works in the areas where it is intended, but it has some weaknesses. I have never concealed that one of the weaknesses is that the contribution in many ways goes far beyond what you can say is reasonable, based on payment for increased market access, but we have to remember what is the political perspective of what we are facing. We now share in making a substantial contribution to removing a poverty gap in Europe. It is a poverty gap that will have a major negative impact on Norwegian society if it is not addressed. We can no longer keep this from us, and I think it is politically and ideologically right that we do it. That is why this agreement is not just a question about the store, as I said in my foreign policy statement. This is also a question of important ideological policy. Of course, we've heard from the Center Party that you could negotiate so much better yourself. You can have more opinions on that. That's probably true, but all in all, we've now reached an agreement that's balanced. But we have to face up to the fact that the EEA Agreement cannot solve all the problems that Norway is facing. With regard to market access for fish, I just have to say that there are limits to how far it is possible to reach, what problems can be solved, unless we on our side want to put on the table the things the EU is concerned about. We have made an explicit statement that we are not prepared to do so. Then the scheme became as it was. That's why we have to say that, of course, it doesn't solve all of the problems completely. That, as far as I was aware, was a question of the more detailed rules relating to the functioning of the new financial instruments. To this end, work is now being done both in Oslo and in Brussels to put in place the necessary framework before the scheme enters into force. These are of the more technical questions, but it must be emphasised that this is, of course, an opportunity for a recipient management. It brings me to Høglund's questions from earlier today, namely that this also facilitates networking and partnership between both public and private actors. The fact that Norway is now becoming a heavy contributor, if we handle our case properly, makes this also an important element in building relations between us and the recipient countries. There will be many opportunities here for Norwegian business as well. I have no doubt that the proposal that Höglund has accepted is being sent to the Government, will give us a further reminder of how important it is to look at how to build partnerships with the new countries along these funding mechanisms.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e190	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e193	That's right, as the Foreign Minister says. The contribution is also about policy, and it also says something about it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to our transmission proposal. But there is now a unanimous comitology comment that says: ‘Norwegian contributions must also contribute to the promotion of Norwegian interests in the EU.’ There is something that is not a single word about, at least as I have understood it, in the proposition that is the basis for this debate. This is not technical. This goes more towards the purpose of the financial instrument. Will the Foreign Minister confirm that this unanimous observation by the Foreign Affairs Committee is now part of the whole purpose of the financing mechanism?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e205	It is a fact that Norway is now becoming one of the heavy contributors, so much so that it is noticed. I do not know about Höglund as the record of the Prime Minister's visit to Chancellor Schröder yesterday. It was obvious that Norway would be a significant contributor to the common good. That, of course, gives us opportunities for mutual cooperation. I know that at least on this issue, Høglund and I are so close to each other that we can both say that when you grant that kind of grant, there will also be business opportunities, and business opportunities are for the common good of both. At least on this side of the political line, I expect that there is a common position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e210	In this debate, the criticism from EU adherents to the EEA Agreement has not been made. None of them on this page have been here and brought the criticism of the EEA Agreement. But as we were up to today, both yes-people and no-people are critical of the EEA Agreement. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who, of course, clearly sees the problems that are related to the regime: does he not see the possibility of another type of cooperation agreement, which does not have as automatic that we must swallow all the directives, including those that we are not against? I am sure that the Foreign Minister will see that there is an area of policy in which we have had to introduce it in Norway, in which he too certainly has our differences. Could we have another agreement, with greater freedom of action for Norway when it comes to the environment, districts and consumer policies? There may be other areas that the Foreign Minister would add, where he would see it was good if we could have much more self-destination. Is it possible for the Foreign Minister to see such another type of cooperation agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e217	I think I stated in my post that I see weaknesses in the EEA Agreement, as I did when I agreed to write the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee when it was adopted. But that's the best we have, based on the situation that is. Jacobsen knows well what I think about what should be the final solution. I believe that full membership will be best, but that is not a political basis for it in Norway, since the Right is the only party that has it clearly in its programme. I don't see so many other opportunities for good cooperation, unless you want to give up a lot and anyway pay a good deal. I find it hard to see that this will be the case. It is not, of course, in any way expressed any wish on the part of the EU to do so. So it's not an interest from that side. The interesting thing is that when the no-side, who enjoys it, has to have help from the yes-side to keep their thoughts in order in this area, it's obvious that Jacobsen doesn't really see any other possibilities than those that are.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e224	I have to say it is alarming that the foreign minister, having lived for ten years with the EEA Agreement without trying to find alternative solutions, still believes that the EEA Agreement is the second best we have. All the time when there is no willingness from the EEA and EU members to see whether it is possible to have a form of agreement with the EU that can meet our needs in relation to the EU as a market in a way different from that of the EEA Agreement, I think it is a little remarkable that the Minister of Foreign Affairs repeatedly repeats that the EEA Agreement is the second best we can get. The EEA Agreement has gained a far greater scope than I think anyone, even on the yes side, could imagine when the EEA Agreement was concluded, not least in relation to Norwegian district policy. Let there be no doubt that the termination of the EEA Agreement is permanent on the part of the Centre Party. However, it is a responsible policy to work towards identifying alternatives and looking at the areas that should be included in a new trade agreement with the EU before a termination of the agreement. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not see that it is actually necessary to take those steps before canceling the agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e231	If you are going to attend anything other than a political seminar, you must have an opinion on whether this is a reasonably useful way to go. Then we'd like to listen to what, for example. The center party says, if there's a reasonable way to go. I have to say that I am very surprised that after ten years you can do nothing more than make some vague requests to the yes-page to be so kind as to find out what you have not even found out. When this is quite important, it is also because Odd Roger Enoxsen has been a member of the Norwegian Government for several years, where he put on this investigative device, and as far as I remember, he felt when he had the opportunity to initiate investigations, no need to start it. And that's probably the answer to the question we're now facing. Therefore, after all these years, the Central Party has ended up in the real situation that they are now going to vote subsidiaryly for what they call an accident. Pussy thing!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e238	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e242	The EEA Agreement is Norway’s most important foreign policy agreement. It ensures most of the Norwegian industry full access to and security of fair competition in our main market, with 475 million inhabitants. When the SV and the Central Party will also vote in favour of ratification – albeit subsidiaryly – these parties also recognise the need for safe access to our main market. However, the proposal of these parties raises the point that the Government is about to take the initiative to ‘investigate real alternatives’ that are better for Norway only appears to be an attempt to misrepresent this recognition. For ten years these parties have opposed the EEA Agreement, but have not been able – as others have been – to produce what they call ‘real alternatives’. They therefore ask the parties that are in favour of the agreement – and I had almost said more – to clarify this separately. It does not testify to any particular belief on any of its own strengths or suggestions. The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, said earlier in the debate that it would be wrong to lead such an investigation by saying what would be better for Norway. But this is not about any kind of free research. A lot of people would think that getting participative will be better for our interests, while what these parties seem to think is that it's better not to follow the same rules that others have to follow. The EEA Agreement has 28 parties. That the Norwegian government is going to consider an alternative would be like coming home to the cohabiter and saying: now I'm going to work out a way of life between us that's better for me. It's not supposed to be marriage, and you can't be part of the investigation. It would probably be a pleasant evening! The EEA Agreement has many weaknesses and the most serious one is a lack of participation. Therefore, there is only one real alternative to the EEA Agreement, and it is called membership. This has been acknowledged by the Prime Minister. And I also think these parties inside recognize it. But there are some, I would say, notable relationships that close to taking the consequences of this recognition. The SV and the Central Party do not like capitalism and market forces, but will wait to participate fully in binding international cooperation with our neighbours until these forces are weakened. Why not join and work for it, rather than trust that others will do that job for you? SV and the Center Party want a different society than what we have today. But is isolation an instrument to achieve that, in a country that is totally dependent on selling and buying goods and services from others to the extent that Norway is? That's the basis for work and well-being, of which these parties will have as much as possible, like the rest of us. They don't like to be run from Brussels. But that's what it's like when we cancel out co-determination because we're outside. The interesting question, however, is why they want Norway to have different rules of play to deal with our neighbours than they have to follow. What requirements and standards do these parties want Norwegian business to escape? If we were to transfer this attitude to the football field, we would say that most of the game rules are totally okay, but the offside rule is bad for Norway, with our playing style and our Flo matches, so it doesn't apply to us. Then we had hardly got to participate in international football! If the Norwegian business community is to have full access to the world's largest single market, we must and should be committed to following the common rules. The extension of the EEA Agreement to 10 new countries is important in order to safeguard Norwegian industrial and commercial policy interests. It is joyous, as it emerges from the great expansion of EU cooperation, an extension that makes the 50-year-old division of Europe definitely over. It is gratifying that the countries of Eastern Europe can finally be integrated into the economic and social development we have had in Western Europe for 50 years, and in which these countries were refused to participate because they remained behind the Iron Curtain after 1945. Therefore, in many ways it is a little sad to see that the SV and the Central Party also have to criticise the contributions that Norway will make to improve the economy and well-being of these countries. They criticise it because there are other countries in Europe that are poorer and could need our help better. It's close to believing that if these others were recipients, the SV and the Central Party would think that there are even poorer countries in Africa that would need help better. They are to help our neighbours in the east, but not in the way that the EEA Agreement involves, and not in the countries it covers. It is a good thing that there are quite different political perspectives that characterise European development today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e265	The Central Party and the Socialist Left believe that there are real alternatives to today’s EEA Agreement that do not include full membership of the EU. They would then like to refer to a Norwegian version of the so-called Swiss model – which we have heard several times today – which they believe is better than today's EEA agreement, among others. because such a solution is not perceived as so supranational as the EEA Agreement and because it is not so dynamic that it can be easily adapted to new situations. It is useful to set out some criteria for assessing any such agreement in relation to the current form of association. Such criteria must relate to areas such as democracy, opportunities for Norway to exercise practical influence over the design of EU legislation, opportunities for participation in the EU internal market and Norwegian negotiating power towards the EU in areas that are important for Norwegian interests. What these parties ignore in the NUPI report on the Swiss model is that Switzerland and the EU spent almost ten years agreeing on the first bilateral agreement package and three to four years having it ratified. As the author of the NUPI report also stresses, the final design of such any agreement with Norway must be determined by the negotiating power of the parties. Norway will, as the author says, face imbalances in the relationship of power. In addition, the EU will usually be a difficult negotiator for purely practical reasons. The latter is linked to the way in which the EU conducts these kinds of negotiations and is made up of so many countries. The European Commission collects negotiating requirements from the Member States. So it likes to form a negotiating arrangement that makes a fair balance between different internal requirements. When considering some issues of negotiation, there may be a conflict of interest between Member States within the EU, which in turn must be compensated for by concessions and concessions to the EU in other areas. This makes it difficult to adjust the layout itself. Finally, the works of agreement need to be ratified in the national parliaments of the 25 EU countries, which can easily take a few years, as it did for the Switzerland agreement package. It was just this author of the NUPI investigation wrote at the very end of his report. In view of the above-mentioned democratic criterion, it is important to bear in mind that the main principle of Norway’s access to the internal market and to the various EU programmes depends on Norway’s adaptation to EU policies. At the same time, we know from experience that the EU protects its own decision-making autonomy. This means that Norway with a Swiss model does not have the right to exercise any influence over the EU — rather, on the contrary. In an EEA opinion, Norway must also withdraw from the institutional arrangements we currently have with the EEA Council, the EFTA Court and ESA. This means that Norway's connection to the internal market will lack any democratic legitimacy. This is also why other European countries see their interests best served by full membership of the EU. They themselves will be involved in shaping legislation, while wanting to participate in an emerging political community that is more than the sum of the individual members of the EU. On the basis of the criteria I have set here, we see that a Swiss solution is not really a dangerous path for Norway. I also think it is important to consider that the Swiss model is outside our scope of action. This is mainly due to the fact that the EEA Agreement for Norway has been the major national compromise between yes and no. Yes-side did not get the EU membership they wanted, but the no-side had to accept a closer relationship with the EU than the trade agreement negotiated by the Korvald government with the EC in spring 1973. SV and the Central Party must also consider this when launching their option. Thus, the domestic policy situation in Norway is totally different from that in Switzerland. In addition, Norway and Switzerland have a wide range of foreign policy ambitions. In the traditional sense, Switzerland has been and is a neutral country, where the objective is among others. is to have a low profile on external issues. It's never been Norway's position. We have sought throughout the post-war period to play an active role in international politics. We've been and are active in NATO, and we're converting the defense so that it's relevant to the challenges we're facing. We have to deliver to get something back. If we also take such a perspective into account when we evaluate the Swiss solution, it is obvious to the Right that such a solution is completely contrary to our traditional foreign policy ambitions and objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e278	There has been a very interesting debate today on this, without equal, main trade policy issue for the nation that we want to deal with in a relatively long time. At the same time, the debate actually reminds me of the old known sport of ice flaking, where it was about making it as much liquid as possible on the ice surface – until it sank – and then saving itself to the next. When I record how the SV and the Center Party – the hops – run this thing up and down and let it hang in the air as a kind of experiment on where you will be in a commercial policy in the future, I think you have to put into practice what you have programmed, and put something other than pure flags of convenience into a debate like this. It is not unexpected that the Central Party has this as its flagship. But I think it is very disappointing that SV now chooses to go hopping with a party that performs to call today's agreement a solid accident for the nation, and that, through its leader, says that when the salmon industry wants a better deal for its industry than it currently has, it is justified by «lower economic self-interests». At the same time, they perform to say that, well, we cancel the EEA Agreement and just gallantly go back to the old trade agreement. Back to who? What kind of existing agreement will it be possible to go back to by entering into and signing – which has now been used as the new terminology to look forward to? It's turning our backs on the market, it's turning our backs on District Norway, and it's turning our backs on what we have to fight for, all of them, that's to see the opportunities in a future market that's become much, much bigger, but that also has many drawbacks. It appears with the greatest difficulty in the debate and concludes, as I see it here, that these two parties – SV and the Central Party – believe that the overall outcome of the negotiations is very poor for Norway and for this reason a new example of the importance for Norway of getting out of the EEA Agreement. I agree with Odd Roger Enoxen, who actually performs here to say that the EEA Agreement is the second best solution, which, according to his own programme, he has agreed to vote in order to get out of it. But hasn't it been seen that ten years with outsiders for Coast Norway, for District Norway – which one performs to refer to as its closest allies in the political landscape – has been ten years with stagnation, ten years with lost opportunities for Norwegian fishing? In the nearest, most important and best paid market for Norwegian fish, we lose market shares for every day that goes. Ten years ago, the EU bought 25 pst. of their fish from Norway, while now at 16 pst. I guess we had 60 pst. market share within salmon in the mid-1990s. So this is the bridal walk that Norway recommends to continue. You are surprised to see the problems of Coast-Norway, Fisheries-Norway, with bankruptcies in the fishing industry as a result. The reason for this is not only that fishing has become smaller. The main reason is that we have a market that meets us with significant customs barriers, a market that, if you go according to their instructions, will build even larger customs walls against Norway. So you have an experiment as an alternative to the agreement that we've actually been able to negotiate today. Then, of course, political disagreement, as many have pointed out, is that only full EU membership can ensure the best possible framework conditions for one of our most important district and coastal industries. But you're not willing to reason on that. One performs to use Jagland and others as an example to find counter-conceptions against existing agreements. It's not a problem to see that there are counter-conceptions to what you have to be involved in. But you have to ask yourself and Coast Norway and Fisheries Norway a question: what in the name of heaven is the alternative to the agreement we are about to adopt here today? The alternative is an experiment. Then it's most comfortable to sit on the stands and applaud the experiment you luckily don't see the ringing effects of.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e291	The President would point out that the expression 'in the name of heaven' may not be particularly parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e294	I would like to say a little bit about the Swiss solution, since it has been introduced into the debate. I like to make such assessments on the basis of some facts. You have to consider whether there is a similarity between Norway and Switzerland, or whether there are differences that make us not just able to say that it is a good solution for Norway, the one that Switzerland has. I've actually looked at some of that, and I have some facts that might be a little bit interesting in that context. Here I have an overview of the 25 largest industrial companies in the EFTA countries. Of the 25 largest companies, 20 are Swiss. The Swiss economy is made up of some of the largest industrial companies in Europe; it is market-leading in Europe in several areas. What does that mean? This means that the Swiss economy is already integrated into Europe through these companies, and that the Swiss works of agreements mean that they are fully and completely at the same pace as we are taking EU legislation in the internal market. There is no problem for them; on the contrary, it is absolutely necessary because of the size of these companies in the Swiss economy. They have sub-contracts in some other areas. If we were to choose the Swiss option, we would create great uncertainty for the many small and medium-sized enterprises that do not have the weight of all the large Swiss companies in the European economy. We have a few market leaders in Norway, they have no problems anyway, because they're market leaders, they're big, they're out there. But what about all the others, if we are now seriously going to say that we are going to spend ten years negotiating interim agreements with the EU? There would be ten years of uncertainty for this whole undergrowth of small and medium-sized enterprises that are at the heart of the Norwegian economy. There is a totally different situation from what Switzerland has. I want to ask the question: what kind of situation would you have, if you were to conclude sub-agreements, which we have to have for fish? Would it be easier to have an interim agreement for fish that is better than the one we have now negotiated with the EU? If we were to have greater market access, would they require less of us in resource access? Where did you get that? What about the forest industry? You have to think about what that would mean for you to have partial agreements in all of these areas. Switzerland is a centrally located country in Europe and is fully integrated into Europe. We have a completely different structure of our economy, which means that of course we can't just take over the system that Switzerland has. If we are to explore alternatives to the EEA, we really need to explore an alternative Norwegian economy, because the reason why we have the EEA Agreement is that we want to be part of the internal market for our entire industry. It is not that the internal market should join us. We are the ones who will join the internal market. That's what's going on. If we are to have a system where we are not going to take the law in the internal market – which would then be the top of happiness, as it appears in some posts here – we had to figure out how to convert the Norwegian economy so that we did not have to take the law that the internal market has. That's what this is about. Then I think it's very strange that we've actually had a no-regiering, consisting of just no-parties, for two years, that didn't try to figure out such an alternative, that didn't try to shift the Norwegian economy in that direction, on the contrary, but that systematically adapted to the internal market, because of course they saw the need for it to be necessary in relation to the Norwegian economy and Norwegian welfare. So to the EEA system and the danger that it will collapse: everyone must understand that if, for example: Iceland was to join the EU, Norway is really the only country left in the EEA. Liechtenstein cannot be taken into account in this respect. This would include, inter alia: involve Norway monitoring itself, as required by the EEA system. It wouldn't work. Therefore, it will collapse in such a situation – I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e311	In my view, the best solution is full membership of the EU, based on the interests of the coast. It is located along the coast of the majority of the export industry and we need access to a large and close market that the EU represents. After all, it's this value creation that's going to guarantee our well-being in the future. A Norwegian EU membership will become more and more urgent in the future, because we need friends and allies who see the benefits of standing by when our interests come to grips with major powers that have their best interests to care for. An example will be the transport of oil and gas from North-West Russia to the United States, which will go along much of the Norwegian coast. This is a transport that will increase a lot in the years to come, if an explicit energy agreement between the two countries is implemented. Furthermore, it is unfair to stand outside when the EU adopts its laws and rules, and we sit here and accept, whether it suits us or not. 4 000 laws and regulations from 1994 to now are designed and adopted in the EU. We have incorporated them into our everyday lives. In my view, the EEA Agreement has strong leasing features, but in the absence of an EU membership, that agreement is absolutely necessary. What about the veto right, says a few. It is not for nothing that the Icelandic word for veto right is the suicide paragraph. Negotiations are giving and taking. With a strong relationship between Norway and the EU of 1:100, which we have heard before today, we have to assume that many important questions from the European Union will have an impact on it. That doesn't mean we can't have a significant impact on areas where Norway has to be considered a power force. We have seen this from other countries and in previous negotiations, but it is now urgent. We have to assume that questions that have been negotiated in the past, but on which there has been no agreement, will come back again and again, especially about our negotiating position is weak. The transit arrangement for fish is a good example. This was an important issue in connection with our last EU application. The parties did not reach an agreement at that time. Now there's a new ratio, and they're going to do it again. Is it known to those who have been on the negotiating rounds in different contexts? - I'm just asking. In the case of the transit regime for EU fish through Norwegian facilities, this fish would normally not be available for the Norwegian fishing industry. Now this fish can represent a new possibility for our industry, because it is landed here and can be bought by Norwegian companies, if they want it. It is not likely that the fish would have returned to Norway if he had been in an EU port first. We need to look at the possibilities and not just the disadvantages. 800 jobs in the fishing processing industry in Finnmark have been lost in two years. Norway loses its position as a supplier to the EU market. In 1993, Norway stood for 25 p.m. of the seafood imported into the EU. In 1995, the proportion was 21 pst. And as Ivar Kristiansen was inside, he's 16 pst. This occurs at the same time as the consumption of seafood in the EU is growing. The duty rates for round fresh or frozen mackerel are 20 pst. and for 15 pst round fresh or frozen herring. Then we have duty-free periods, but they are outside our seasons for catching and are just set up for EU industry to get raw materials all year round. Our raw material forms the basis for more than 5,000 processing jobs in the EU. They could have been good to have in Finnmark! Only the loss of currency by standing outside the euro, cost us 626 million. SEK in 2002, associated with the export of red fish. For white fish, the number is 612 million. kr. If there is something that Coast Norway needs, there is a stable framework that we cannot get by standing outside the EU. I think it is wise for the Government to give priority to the Norwegian restrictions on foreign ownership and investments in the fisheries sector not to become a topic in the negotiations for a new EEA agreement. This issue can be addressed in the negotiations for full membership by showing the boundaries of several EU countries in this field. I would recommend that the assembly look at the Danish and English systems. Denmark has in several fields a stronger participation law than we have – by the way, our law is based only on all the exemptions adopted. The most important thing we can learn from today's treatment of the EEA Agreement is that it is now urgent to send an EU application. And when Membership negotiations are to be held, the interests of the coast must be significantly higher on the agenda, not just on the fishing side, but in an export perspective, where the coast plays a major role. We're actually many along the coast that will interest us in this question in the future, because we want to stay here too in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e332	There is in many ways a somewhat remarkable debate here today. It's seaworthy for the Centre Party and SV that there are so many people in this room who are so busy with us and also have strong views on what the Center Party and SV mean. I'm assuming we're going to see more of that in the future, and none of us have anything against it. But it is clear that it is a rather strange and quite incredible debate. All the insurance we received from them in this room that voted in favour of the EEA Agreement in 1992 – on how the EEA Agreement was limited, on how to not extend the scope of the agreement, on how to avoid prejudice to district policy, on how to avoid affecting taxes and charges, on how to maintain a differentiated employer’s tax – has been put to shame during the period of the agreement. When that is the situation, and when the same parties today assure us that we will have influence, participation, in EU membership, why should we believe that fisheries should survive and that the economic situation should be okay? Why should we be able to trust it when all these parties have said about the EEA Agreement in the last ten years – all the assurances given to us about limiting the effects of the agreement – have been broken? There is little trust left in what Gunnar Berge, Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland and other members of the government and the Stortinget said in 1992. It is still being produced as if our influence in any relationship with the EU other than membership should be like a mouse, whereas any intra-EU influence is said to be like an elephant’s. A little less europeism and a little more soberness in that question might have been in place. There's also a remarkable kind of openness in this room. You don't want to figure out any Swiss model, but you're talking the other way around as if you've already decided that that possibility isn't there, and that the only option is membership. So far the question of transparency in the debate. I noticed that the representative of the Wage criticised the Centre for having decided on a Swiss model. I don't think we've decided more on the Swiss model than on the pay that he's a member of the European Union. The question of whether you've decided here how sober and open you've had, maybe you can go both ways. Norway has had and has an open relationship with the world around it. We have always had that, regardless of our relationship with the European Union. Therefore, the claims made by the leader of the European Movement for isolation as an alternative to EU membership are completely wrong, as they have always been. With regard to the internal market, which the representative Igland was engaged in, and which Norway must be a member of, I have to say that anyone who has considered the EEA Agreement over the last few years sees that here we are dealing with a law that is sometimes moving out of the parody. It is soon not the trifle into which ESA and the EEA do not interfere. I don't think there's any more reason to hope for Iceland as a co-player. It is only a few days since the Icelandic Minister for Fisheries completely rejected the fact that Iceland was a current candidate for EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e351	I too have marveled at this debate and at the answers both given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and by representatives of the majority when we challenge them in terms of alternatives. I see that what the majority is doing is a kind of ridicule. When we ask for other alternatives, they give a presentation as if it should be exactly on a dot similar to the agreement that Switzerland has. Gradually, the majority and the foreign minister must understand that what we are asking for is the investigation of a bilateral agreement that does not bind us to the dynamic agreement that the EEA Agreement is – an agreement that can ensure cooperation, which can ensure rules of play, and which can also safeguard Norwegian business. Then I wonder a little bit: why this ridicule because we're asking the Government to investigate the alternatives? Yeah, who else? It's the government that's sitting on the investigation unit, and I would also expect it to have done this job if the majority had gone in for the same thing as the SV and the Center Party are doing. Then it is produced as if the only option to the EEA Agreement is EU membership. To that I would say that if you manufacture the EEA Agreement as a housekeeper's contract, and the EEA is the wrong medicine in relation to the solidarity and local freedom of action of the People's Council, then membership is an even worse wrong medicine. Like Marit Arnstad, I wonder about this in order to influence. Mr. Svein Roald Hansen said yet again that you were going in to influence to change the EU in the right direction. It must be borne in mind that at these times the European Union is negotiating a new constitution that is agreed upon both to legislate the four freedoms and to give more market power. I want to say that going in to change is as realistic as going in to change Rosenborg to a chess club. Then there is one relevant question in the light of the criticism raised by the Court of Auditors about the lack of control over the flow of money from Norway to the EEA as long as the EEA Agreement has worked. What leadership will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take, so that we can now secure control? Then it's also made as if the contributions we're going to make are equalizing the differences. Then I'd like to ask, "Does it differ from who?" Are you willing to go in and look at who's the poorest? It's the women! How is it to ensure that these contributions can give women in Eastern Europe better living conditions and better life? That's a very important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e366	Every country has the right to find its own way. That means, of course, recognising the right of the ten new candidate countries to believe what is best for them and their inhabitants. It is clear that they have a rather demanding race in front of them. There will be significant changes, not least in Poland and the largest of these countries. They have a structure that will ensure that although Norway contributes significantly through the EEA quota, it will be close enough to compensate for the major changes. How this will develop, we do not know, because the EU is in a dynamic development. There are many different, cross-cutting considerations in this system. But does that mean that the future becomes as pink as some people like to make it? Of course, everyone knows that it won't be like that. When we want to choose our own way, Norway has done it twice. We said no to EU membership both in 1972 and 1994. We have had an EEA agreement that through this process has become much more extensive than I think most of them were aware of when it was concluded. The EEA Agreement was initially a limited agreement, with the appropriate guidance on how things should be resolved. And it's when these processes have gone on for many years, and things have found their solution, that you actually see the big weaknesses of the EEA Agreement. These are weaknesses that both the yes-side and the no-side acknowledge. I don't think anyone in the Norwegian economy was happy that we had to remove the differentiated employer's fee. I don't think it's particularly nice that the EEA agreement has meant that we can't call out professorates for female applicants, that we have a rush in the store, that cash support now applies to all those who work in Norway – that's what you might think about – or, for that matter, that lottery winnings can't be discriminated against. Some of this might be wise, some of it's not that wise. However, the point was that even when the EEA Agreement was concluded, the yes-side did not even mean that that agreement would be so extensive in so many different areas of Norwegian society. What we also see is that the EEA Agreement deals more with taxes and taxes, which are not part of the EEA Agreement, and in fact are not part of the EU and the internal market. Each EU country has its own tax systems. But now we see that there is an increasing degree of harmonisation also in this field, a field I would also think that the Norwegian yes side would be very worried if we would have to go further in harmonising a tax regime that we do not like. The problem is well, as you say in England, "The devil is in the details." That's probably where we are. We have now seen so many weaknesses that we, who represent them as usual in 1994, actually believe that we need to see if there are alternatives that allow us to get rid of some of the weaknesses of the EEA Agreement. We, on our side, are very clear that the strength of the EEA Agreement is the same as we had before the EEA Agreement, namely the free market access for Norwegian industrial production. We do not want to override this, nor do we want Norwegian industrial companies to have this opportunity. The weakness of the EEA Agreement is exactly what I have now been through. And when we want an investigation of this, it is because it has proven over time that this has become more extensive than anyone might have been able to predict when the agreement was concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e377	The representative Arnstad is quite right when she assumes that I have an opinion of Norway's relationship with the EU. That is why I do not need to ask anyone to investigate on my behalf what I mean, because I do know that. If you read the programme for the 2001 to 2005 enlargement period for the Central Party and the Left Party respectively, you can see that they also know very well what they think. The program is completely incomprehensible. The centre party explicitly states that they will terminate the EEA Agreement in order to obtain an agreement according to the Swiss model. Not a single reservation, not a single doubt and not one suggestion that you need an investigation of anything. SV says in its application: ‘SV will work during the period for Norway to terminate the EEA Agreement and negotiate a trade agreement with the EU.’ It's also brilliantly clear. But then it's amazing that, after presenting your programmes to the voters in elections and committing themselves to them, you have come to the conclusion that you need to find out what you have agreed to. The only possible interpretation I have been able to find of the inherent inconsistency in the arguments of these two parties is the wording of proposal No. 2 from the minority in the setting: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess real alternatives to the EEA Agreement’. This may mean that you have then discovered that the alternatives you have committed to in your programmes are not real, and that you therefore need the government's help to come up with something better. It's still unclear to me – I didn't get an answer from Åslaug Haga earlier in the debate on the question – how the two parties intend to deal with the Coastal Party's proposals, which are entirely in line with both of them. I guess once you've driven the acrobatic exercises so far that you're able to vote for two proposals that are incompatible, you also have to be able to vote for a third that is incompatible with both of the other two.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e398	I didn't quite finish what I had to say, so I'm going to try to add something to what I said in my post, especially about coast and fishing. I think it will also be an important topic of discussion in the future. The representative Kristiansen was very concerned with the outside world, as he called it. I also think that there is reason to point out, in relation to the fisheries, some of which it has meant to us that we have not become a member of the EU. Ten years without membership have meant that the participation law and the raw fish law continue to exist. Right now are against these laws, but a majority in the United Kingdom believes that they are important to the population of the coast. Ten years without membership have meant that resources continue to be managed by us, not as a common EU sea, with the effects it could have had in relation to the disastrous fisheries policy of the EU over the past ten years. The fact that we have been without EU membership for ten years has also meant that we have escaped the fact that the EU is negotiating with Russia on behalf of us on the cod in the Barents Sea. I think that has been of great importance to that cod stock, not least compared to the North Sea cod stock, of which the EU has had its share. I think it is rather good to blame our relationship with the European Union for the fact that the Norwegian fishing industry is struggling, when we now know that it is the combination of low Chinese wages and a government that has completely abdicated in industrial policy, which is much of the real reason why the Norwegian fishing industry is struggling. There is no long-term thinking in this government about how to convert the Norwegian fishing industry. Europe is no longer the problem, but it is indeed China. So a little over to the representative's salary, who's concerned about the Swiss model. I know well the program of the Center Party, and I also know that the pay quoted here is a small part of the section relating to the relationship to EEA withdrawal. That section begins with the fact that the Centre Party will explore a Swiss alternative and consider it as a basis for terminating the agreement. I want to point out what Sverre Jervell says in an article not so long ago: no one is given to say what an agreement between Norway and the EU based on the Swiss model will look like. But it is possible to say a lot about which principles will be used for an agreement, and it is possible to form a picture of how the negotiation process will proceed. And that might be what we could have done, if we had been willing and open enough to figure out such a deal more precisely than what we've done. I also allow myself to make a small explanation of vote. I noticed that the representative Bastesen was satisfied with the proposals of the Centre Party and SV, but he thought that the wording from us was a little vague. I don't share that view. I believe that our proposal has two steps: first, to find a Swiss solution, and then to work to terminate the agreement. I think it is right to move forward in that two-stage system, and the Central Party will therefore choose to vote in favour of its own proposals, and against the proposals promoted by the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e414	I have two questions at the end here. There's one question that the Center Party raised quite early. Those who agree to ratify this agreement, which, as far as I understand, is probably also the centre party to the seventh and last, are very skeptical of the amount transferred to Central Europe through the EEA Agreement, because it is a meaningless aid, which it is called. I have not heard whether the Centre Party has stopped mentioning this as assistance. That's not help. We've stressed many times that this is something completely different, and I'd appreciate it if it were also clarified by the Center Party, so that a misunderstanding doesn't get dangling again after the debate. The second concerns this proposal for a better agreement, which we have had many times now, and which has varied from free research to some point of view. However, if one is to follow up this proposal to ensure Norwegian interests in a better way, then we have not really got any more guidance on this than to ensure Norwegian market access. That's very fine, but there must be some other conditions that are in this better. If we are to try to build up institutions that allow us to have a greater impact on EU legislation, it may be an important input to make. In that case, we will break very strongly with the Swiss system, which is an eternal negotiating system. I think that those who put forward the proposal should be able to say something more about what they want in such a direction, except to say that the agreements should be better. I may sound bad, but I haven't heard a lot of leads for where this is going. Then it is clear that the EU has caused many countries many ugly wounds and major problems. That's for sure. But then a number of new countries have now chosen to join the EU and expand the EU by ten. Norway chooses not to go in, and there is no problem for Europe. No one cares about it, and, as the Foreign Minister said, we're going from being extravagant to being left out. But we have to ask that question, for example. to Ågot Valle, who had an article about the EU here. Does Ågot Valle want to say that those who are involved in this cooperation will also withdraw from the cooperation? It is an advantage that France and Germany cooperate and that Poland has joined forces. For European policies there must be an advantage, and if one is completely consistent, then Ågot Valle should also be able to say from her point of view that she would strongly recommend these to leave this cooperation, so that the lack of democracy is not what is spreading across Europe. It must be unfortunate for Norway that so many countries, the majority of countries in Europe, are entering into a system that destroys democracy in Europe. That's the logical consequence of the argument that we heard instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e423	Some comments to that representative, Ågot Valle, said that membership would be worse than the EEA Agreement, because we get more of what they don't like about the agreement. And she pointed out that the four freedoms were grounded. Then the representatives Øystein Djupedal and Marit Arnstad were out with criticism of the EU from the very opposite point of view, namely that there are no limits to what they interfere in and regulate. So the four freedoms are the principle of economic activity that we have in most countries we can compare with. We have it in Norway, we have it in all EU countries, and we have it in the EU countries together. But that doesn't mean what Ågot Valle is trying to say in a way between the lines, that it's clear, because it's, as the others pointed out, strong regulation, and you can always discuss how much detail to make that regulation. But I wish that those who criticise the European Union as a cooperation system might be able to choose which side to take the criticism from. So Ågot Valle ironized a little over that, by entering the EU, it would be possible to influence, participate and influence developments in the EU and the policies pursued. I believe at least that we can agree that when we stand outside, as we do, we have no participation in the legislation that is being developed in the EU and that we must therefore accept. I think we can agree on that. But if you think that by going in, we have no influence either, then you don't have much faith in the fact that democratic countries can work together with commitments. However, the whole history of the EU is a story of six countries – three small and three large – that started cooperation 50 years ago and that it has gradually expanded. For ten years, there have been fifteen countries — and now ten new countries — that have developed joint cooperation, moved into new areas, deepened cooperation. It's really an amazing story that so many countries have been able to cooperate on so much for so long. There are a lot more than we have done in the Nordic region through the Nordic Council, even though we were earlier out of the EU to release passport controls at the border. It is the history of the European Union. They have encountered problems and what are called crises, but they have overcome them and moved on in cooperation. Then it doesn't seem like it could have happened if there was a cooperation system where the big ones overrun the small ones. That story is only possible in a cooperation system that takes account of each other's interests and finds a balance point between the different countries, whether they are knee-like or quite large.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e430	I took the floor because there was a question raised about the EU audit report on the Debt and Grant Scheme, and that is how it notes on some individual projects. Questions are raised as to whether the interest rate support for the projects has had an impact on the decision to build the windmills and sewage treatment plants in question, which are the problem, or whether it has not. However, the quality of the projects themselves has not been affected. And as far as I can see, the assessment of the loan and grant scheme is consistently positive. Now, however, the scheme that will apply from 1 May has no element of interest subsidy, so I assume you can be reassured in this area. So I just want to make a general comment on the debate. It is obvious that the no-side now feels so comfortable on the defensive that they feel ridiculed that they have not been able to answer better for themselves. That's too bad, but it might give you a little bit of insight into why we're asking the questions. It's because they have a huge commitment, great knowledge and a great level of detail about everything you have to complain about, and about everything you disagree about. There are no limits to how much that is. And then when we ask, what are you going to do? Yes, then all the detailed knowledge has disappeared as dew for the sun. In fact, you know so little about what you've been thinking, that you're asking the yes side and the EEA fans to be so kind and help fix the argument. That contrast is pretty striking. The centre party is best placed to complain and is relatively little good at making alternatives. That's essentially why we ask what you have of thoughts that make it a dangerous path, what you ask for in that case. So at that point SV and the center part have not delivered anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e439	Marit Arnstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e442	I can comfort the Minister for Foreign Affairs that I feel in good shape, and that I look forward with pleasure to a debate on EU issues both in this Chamber and outside this Chamber in the time to come. The centre party has not asked the yes-page to investigate anything. We have asked the Government to investigate a Swiss model, and, as far as I know, the Government consists of both yes- and no-people. At least it's made it that far. So it was the representative of Blankenborg, who had two questions. First of all, that was the question of transfers to Eastern Europe. We don't go against those transfers, but we're saying that it was expensive herring. We have said that before, and we stand for that. It's the same for me if you call it assistance or not, but it's a fact that the sum of the transfers to Poland is now twice as large as the aid to Tanzania, which is one of our main countries of cooperation. It could be a cross of thought that you should take with you. The centre party is not going to go against enlargement when our proposals are down. That doesn't mean we're not going to continue working for alternatives to the EEA. So whoever had hoped that it would satisfy the Central Party's desire for an alternative to the EEA will probably be thoroughly disappointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e453	I've had some challenges. First, to the question of whether we do not see it as an advantage that Poland and other countries enter the EU and that they cooperate. Yes, I must say the same thing as Øystein Djupedal said, we recognize every state's right to choose its own path. When those countries have chosen to enter the EU, they have the right to do so, but it will be very exciting to see what the people of the countries say when they are presented with the constitution that the EU is likely to come to. We have to recognise – and yes-side also we have to see – that the whole EU system is a system that has very little legitimacy in the population, therefore also low participation in elections to Parliament. So to Svein Roald Hansen – in order to change, yes, change a system that fundamentalizes the four freedoms. To Social-Democrat Svein Roald Hansen, I would say: it means, in fact, to legitimize the freedoms of market forces at the expense of popular government, at the expense of the environment and at the expense of local freedom of action. It is precisely because of these four freedoms that countries by country are deprived of capital management. Stepping into the EU also means joining Economic and Monetary Union, which in turn means that monetary policy as a whole is left to a bank manager who cannot even be influenced, with a board where meetings are kept secret for 30 years. I would also like to say to Blankenborg, when he ironizes a little bit about questioning how to use the money, saying that this is not an aid: the money that we are now going to transfer and use through the EEA Agreement is being marketed as a solidarity project. They are marketed as a project to balance the differences, but when market forces are provided, we know that there is one thing happening: that the differences in each country are increasing, that the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e467	I note with interest that the SV and the Central Party are continuing the debate by pointing out the fact that the EEA Agreement has changed since 1992, to which Marit Arnstad and Øystein Djupedal are choosing to go back. Of course, they're right about that. If we are now benevolent and compare the EU Union in 1994 with today's EU organisation, we will see that in 1994 there was a kind of balance, if we choose to be a little liberal in comparison between the EEA countries and the EU. The equilibrium has completely disappeared. Others have argued in this debate that it is now Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein that are left. On the basis of the case we are dealing with today, I have recorded the fact that in addition, we are getting ten new countries from former Central and Eastern Europe as allegedly, if we are to understand the SV and the Central Party right, have not been able enough to take good care of their own interests, when they choose to enter and become full-fledged EU members. The equivalency that has completely disappeared exacerbates our image in this debate, and that cannot be totally overlooked. The representative of Marit Arnstad is also concerned about Norwegian fishing industry. She has then the brilliant answer that the fact that we have problems with Norwegian fisheries is due to China – sentence. I think with respect to report that it's going to be a little bit easier to blame the Chinese in this context. I think you still have to take inwards that we're losing dramatic market shares. We could have sold hundreds of thousands of tons of salmon to the EU today if we had kept the market share we had in the mid-1990s. More Norwegian fish are processed in the EU than in Norway. We should let this sink into us. The question must be: to whom are we going to sell Norwegian salmon and other Norwegian fishery products, unless it is the nearest and best paid market in the world, namely the EU, which is to buy it? And what are we going to offer in return? I believe that this question must be answered by the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. If you do not turn your back on the Norwegian coast and fishing industry with completely open eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e478	I noticed that Ågot Valle answered Haakon Blankenborg's question by saying that SV will not prevent other countries from doing what they want, and that is a shame. But that's not what Blankenborg asked about. He asked how SV looks at this. And if Ågot Valle's description of the EU system is serious, she must consider it regrettable that more and more open-minded European countries are entering into something so terrible. Otherwise, in the case of these illustrious four freedoms, I thought the rhetorical number had been used up ten years ago. However, since Ågot Valle is drawing it up again, it may be worth reminding her that the Constitution of the Kingdom of Norway states that there are no obstacles to the free exercise of nutrition. We have probably lived reasonably well with that for almost 200 years in this country. So at least on that point, Norway is not a different country. Marit Arnstad answered my question instead by stating that the Central Party will vote against the Coastal Party's proposal, and that is at least a useful clarification. But she got hurt to reproduce her own program error, because the Center Party program doesn't say that you want to explore alternatives. It says: ‘The Central Party will work towards negotiating, as an alternative to today’s EEA Agreement, an agreement with the EU that provides Norway with an institutional solution similar to that achieved by Switzerland through its recently approved agreement with the EU.’ Those are very clear words for the money. The reference to NUPI's study and to Sverre Jervell is in this context, according to my concepts, quite meaningless. For what Marit Arnstad himself reproduced, was just that Jervell points out that no one can predict what an alternative might look like. No one can say that in advance! And no scientist can answer that question! I generally believe in research, but how would a researcher simulate negotiations with 28 countries, provided that we could reach agreement with the two countries with which we are already in common? It simply makes no sense! The only way to figure out what this is all about is to take the chance and cancel the EEA Agreement, like both of the two parties have programmed, and then try and see how it works. Finally, once again: Proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and SV, is a proposal that gives a precise answer to the proposition. The proposal proposes that the size should ratify the agreement. The two parties propose not to ratify the agreement. Then they shall nevertheless ratify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e496	I note that the representative, Inge Wohnung, has been afraid that the most possible vote will be in favour of the vote and the plural proposal, and that thus policies can also be situation-specific. The way we manage our program today from the SV side is that we look at the situation that is today. If we're voting against ratification now, we're taking away the emphasis from what's most important to us in the situation we have today, simply to have a good debate and get up the most possible options. The Foreign Minister is not right that we have not presented many options during the day. We've pointed that out, but we've also asked the government to do more. The Government will not do that. I should like to get another government that will be more positive to that view. Then several social democrats have been up here criticizing SV and the Center Party for different things, as if Social Democrats against the EC have never existed, as if formerly representative Hallvard Bakke had never bid in Norway, etc. I have asked for them before today: Where are the yes-people who often in the media brought criticism of the EEA agreement? I haven't seen them here today. Nor is it to be taken into account that value conservatives across Europe have some critical comments to make to the EU, not least in relation to the future, in relation to the Convention, in relation to the Constitution, etc. And what's going on there. The newspaper Die Welt also exists. The Representative for Wage should know that she is very critical of developments within the EU in relation to democracy. We have had democracy in a very small part of human existence. This is now to be removed in many ways. Inge Wohnung also knows that many times today I have been critical of the EEA Agreement’s popular governance element. I am sure that Inge Wohnning will also agree with me in part of that criticism. But what the representative does not want to do is ask the EU – after the government has done it – if there are other ways to regulate the relationship between the EU and Norway, which would be more democratic?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e507	Ågot Valle has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e511	For Wages and salaries: The fact that the Basic Law regulates the free exercise of nutrition in Norway is not to be compared with, for example, to establish the free movement of capital by constitution. Norway is also linked to this by the EEA Agreement. But it is that competition is overall all other conditions, which means that we will have to give up as good an instrument as a differentiated employer’s fee, which allows the right of return to discussion, and even the appointment of female professors at the University of Oslo will be an obstacle to free competition. So I have to repeat: it's the right of every country to decide its own way, and then it's completely uninteresting what SV thinks about this. But it's going to be exciting to see what the people are saying when you're going to have a referendum on the new constitution, the new constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e518	This has been a remarkable debate, and I see that I have to make a few comments at the very end of the debate. Thorbjørn Jagland is concerned about the conditions of the industry without an EEA membership. Thorbjørn Jagland knows very well that the industry had free trade with the EU before the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement does not in any way extend the market access of industry. I myself am the joint owner and director of one of the small businesses that Thorbjørn Jagland is concerned about, who exported goods to the EU both before and after the EEA Agreement. Our business relations in the EU do not even know what the EEA Agreement is, and we definitely did not notice any change to the EEA Agreement. Ivar Kristiansen said we have had ten years of stagnation in the Norwegian fishing industry. That's definitely not the case. We have had ten years of adventurous development in the Norwegian fishing industry, not least in the Norwegian farming industry. In eight of these ten years, the farming industry has made good money. At the end of the 1990s, parts of this industry went completely off the hook and created problems for themselves, which are currently being struggled with. This is not due to the European Union. It's because of the way you acted: you thought this was going to grow into heaven. So the European Union should not blame it. So ask Ivar Kristiansen what we want to offer in return for better market access. Yes, that's one of the discussions we have to bring with us the EU. I know very well what Ivar Kristiansen wants to offer. Ivar Kristiansen will provide the Norwegian fishing resources right to better market access. For us, it is actually a better option to have a few fewer industrial workplaces in the Norwegian fishing industry than to give up the right to dispose of Norwegian fishing resources. To Haakon Blankenborg, I have to say: when Haakon Blankenborg sees it as better to safeguard Norwegian interests only as a matter of trade relations with the EU, it is a solid conclusion. For example, the improvement of Norwegian interests can be achieved by: be able to pursue an autonomous Norwegian district policy, to which the EEA Agreement has deprived us of the possibility. It is in one of the areas where the EEA Agreement has been substantially extended since 1992 – not as Ivar Kristiansen is trying to produce it that, due to the change in the balance between the EFTA pillar and the EU pillar, no, it is because the EEA Agreement has become far more extensive than I think it had even dreamed of in 1992 when the EEA Agreement was negotiated. It was then explicitly stated in this room, not least from the then municipal minister Berge, that the Norwegian employer's fee could be kept unchanged even with an EEA agreement. We should look at those opportunities in order to better safeguard our interests and to form a form of association with the European Union, or an agreement with the European Union, which also takes care of those aspects of it. I note that the yes-side of this room is not interested in discussing these issues at all, but I can continue to operate in an EEA agreement that has become increasingly extensive, without being able to see concerns, and without being willing to enter into a serious discussion as to whether it can be possible to negotiate real alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e531	Bjorn Jacobsen's last post gave me an aha experience. He said it was a situational solution. It is therefore the situation when the Centre Party and the SV will vote – in fact only subsidiaryly, if it does the matter better, but nevertheless, will vote – for something that the same parties consider to be an accident for Norway. Then you have stretched the situation-related long! But Jacobsen continued to clarify, if I understood him correctly, that the reservation “situation-determined” should mean: pending a new government. The new government that SV and the Central Party have seen for some time in their visions should – once again if I have understood correctly – be a majority government together with the Workers' Party. It's fascinating. It is almost like wanting a really large majority, so that we could all be allowed to participate in the debates that will take place in such a government, on vital Norwegian foreign policy interests. We've had a lot of weird cooperation governments in the course of history in Norway. That is, of course, the case in a democracy. But we still have a good thing to see a cooperative government where the participating parties are so fundamentally and fundamentally in disagreement about Norway's place in Europe and in the world. We have never experienced that so far, and I must say I sincerely hope that we will not experience it in the future either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e538	With regard to the question of what is the situation condition, I would just like to say very briefly: in fact, I assume that it is also quite a situational condition that the right-wing vote today for the EEA Agreement and not for EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e543	It was short and all right. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e558	We're going to vote on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e565	During the debate, Mr Höglund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to channel all financial contributions to the Palestinian self-government through funds linked to concrete results in the reform process.’ [[PA]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e580	The President will then propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 27 January 2004 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e587	In the course of the debate, five proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Bjørn Jacobsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, by Mr Höglund on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4 and 5, from Steinar Bastisen on behalf of the Coastal Party; Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is advised to work to ensure that Norway can actively influence the use of the financial contribution to the new EU Member State. The Government is requested to include Norwegian participants in projects where this is natural.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to take the necessary steps to notify Norway out of the EEA.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for other alternatives to EU and EEA membership, such as a pure trade agreement based on the trade agreement we already have with the EU countries, a neighbouring country agreement and a trade and cooperation agreement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e626	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to resume negotiations with the EU with a view to removing the point in the agreement that EU vessels shall be entitled to transit for catches in Norwegian ports’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate real alternatives to the EEA Agreement in order to provide a basis for a process in contrast to the negotiation of an alternative trade and cooperation agreement with the EU that institutionally and substantively respects Norwegian interests in a better way than the current EEA Agreement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29-2.ana.ud2169e666	There is no record.
