ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e78	Two permit applications are available: From the representative André Kvakkestad on leave from 9 March to 12 March to attend meetings of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Paris and Venezia.From the representative May Britt Wehhoven on welfare leave from 9 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representatives, for Akershu County Harald Espelund and for Hordaland County Harald Hove, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e109	Harald Espelund and Harald Hove are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 8 March 2004: ‘In the Council of State for H.K.H. The Crown Prince’s Regent held at Oslo Castle on March 8, 2004 at 9.30 p.m. 1400 is determined:Vritative Council Victor D. Norman is granted, on application, by way of grace from the office of a member of the King's Council with effect from Monday 8 March 2004 at 2.30 p.m. 1600.Director Morten Andreas Meyer is appointed as a member of the King's Board of Governors and takes over the Executive Board of the Ministry of Labour and Administration with effect from Monday 8 March 2004 at 2.30 p.m. 1600.State Secretary Lars Arne Ryssdal is dismissed from office as State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Administration with effect from Monday 8 March 2004 at 2.30 p.m. 1600.State Secretary Osmund Kaldheim is dismissed from office as State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Administration with effect from Monday 8 March 2004 at 9.30 a.m. 1600.Policy adviser Eirik Lae Solberg is appointed State Secretary to the Ministry of Labour and Administration with accession from Monday 8 March 2004 at 2.30 p.m. 1600.Deputy Secretary Eldbjørg Torsøe is appointed Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Administration with accession from Monday 8 March at 2.30 p.m. 2004 at 2.30 p.m. 1600.’» The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e133	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e136	I propose Finn Martin Vallersnes and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e141	Finn Martin Vallersnes and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e154	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 55 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 10 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e165	The Broadband Communication is an important document, with a thorough status review, which discusses key issues related to broadband development in Norway. It is a good starting point for further treatment in Stortinget. The Government clearly states that the electronic infrastructure should cover the whole country, provide competitive advantages and growth opportunities for Norwegian business and contribute to the modernisation of the public sector. Furthermore, it underlines the importance of pursuing a technology-independent policy to ensure competition between different technological solutions. The Committee shares the Government’s view on why broadband is important and would stress that the creation of value in industry and the modernisation of the public sector with particular emphasis on school, municipal administration and health are important objectives in this context. The Committee considers future-oriented broadband infrastructure to be an important prerequisite for maintaining sustainable local communities throughout the country. It is therefore emphasised that all citizens should have access to broadband even where they live, in order to ensure a level playing field for participation in modern digital Norway. The Committee agrees that it is necessary to increase the objective of the eNorway plan to cover all households. Such an increased level of ambition will help to ensure that both industrial development and housing in all local communities of the country can be based on future-oriented broadband technology. Broadband expansion is an important area of regional policy, which can reduce distance constraints in our long-term country. Proper use could also lead to significant environmental benefits such as broadband and broadband services. less pressure on drug traffic and lower travel costs. The Committee is of the opinion that good broadband coverage will be a key prerequisite for the innovation and development of a competitive Norwegian business in the years to come. Innovative use of broadband can make Norwegian business more productive and competitive, thus offsetting the cost-abuse often encountered by Norwegian companies, compared to competitors from low-cost countries. The Committee is united on key comments on Norway's approach to the knowledge society and also on several request proposals. It is about asking the Government to contribute to solutions that can create real competition in the broadband market. The Committee also asks the Government to establish a system of information obligations for the public to carry out excavating operations, so as to ensure the possibility of simultaneous laying of fibre loopholes. Although the Committee agrees with the objective, it is divided into instruments and paces to achieve the objective. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, aims to achieve broadband for all households, businesses and public institutions during 2007. Return to the 2005 budget with an increase in Høkom appropriations to stimulate increased use of broadband, as well as adding an amount to geographical areas where it is not considered to be the basis for market-based expansion. The majority would also like to be asked about their own broadband fund. The minority in the Committee, consisting of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, have more ambitious objectives and will now promote more concrete proposals which are deemed necessary to achieve the objectives. The minority is making use of instruments to ensure broadband for all households, enterprises and public institutions by 2007, i.e. the same level of ambition as in Sweden. The minority proposes the establishment of a broadband fund to provide a total of DKK 3 billion in the State budgets for 2005 and 2006 and the development of guidelines for the Fund. The use of the Fund and, where appropriate, the need for adjustment in appropriations shall be presented in the annual budgets. As regards the future role of BaneTele in broadband development, the majority and the minority are closer together. It is agreed that the company should develop into a nationwide competitor of Telenor, have a good and robust ownership structure and ensure the right to a comprehensive national network structure capable of delivering end-to-end solutions for broadband capacity. The minority has somewhat stronger leads and wants to stop the ongoing sales process in order to submit specific requests to the Government. It can be done, among other things: to create a powerful industrial constellation by selling shares in BaneTele to other network owners in return for the acquisition of a fibre structure of equivalent value. The minority points out that this may be the first step in a process against changing ownership, but that the authorities retain some control over Norway’s new motorway for electronic communications. I expect the various representatives to explain the views of their parties. The Progress Party disagrees with the Government's view when the strategy and market-based expansion is described as successful. I refer to the description in the notification that both coverage and connection to broadband today and expected development seem reasonably good. The Ministry’s up-to-date statistics show changes in broadband developments in Norway. 77 pst. by households, per 15 March a broadband offer. Telenor will provide an offer for broadband coverage in the form of ADSL of at least 90 pst. in 2006. However, this does not reflect on what should be a priority in broadband development. Here it is important to explain the quality difference in what is offered. SINTEF describes this carefully in its evaluation report on Høykom in January this year. The ADSL of the simple variant is only midband, and a transition solution from ISDN to broadband. When Telenor has also announced that the company will offer xDSL coverage of up to 10 megabits per. Seconds to all municipalities during 2005, there is only one thing to say to it: all municipalities must have a fibre connection. This view is supported by SINTEF. You don't solve the problems for the 10 pst., which is approx. 200,000 households, who don't even get ADSL, but remain narrowband customers. This is not good enough if Norway is to take an offensive position in the broadband market. In Sweden, state instruments and a broadband fund have established a nationwide infrastructure development system as a foundation for the overall IT programmes for all municipalities seeking support. These programmes have taken some time to be approved and implemented, but the results are based on robust and scalable solutions throughout the country. Sweden can indicate good coverage, cheaper services and higher quality. Our neighbouring country in the east is now in phase two and builds high-speed broadband, much based on fibre and radio, while developments in Norway are based on low-speed broadband, popularly known as ‘treadmills’, based on copper. It becomes like Norwegian skiers are going on treskiing, while Swedish competitors are going on modern glass fibre skis – a development we are doomed to lose. With the efforts in the broadband sector, or lack of such efforts, as the Government and the majority of the population are behind, it would be unrealistic to offer a quality offer to all in 2007. The result is that digital class divisions are continued. In some key areas of the country, businesses and institutions will be offered a good deal, but especially in the districts, businesses, municipalities and institutions, such as schools, health institutions and municipal administrations, will be harmed. Most of those included in the coverage projections are eaten with ‘tire bands’. Most likely, there will only be cities, agglomerations and some powerhouses that get real broadband, so-called triple play, during 2007, if we just put our trust in the market. The buildings don't usually get it. Some schools get high-value broadband, such as Sandefjord everything's got, while other schools in the same state get nothing. This is not good enough for the Progress Party. This is far from sufficient if we are to take advantage of the opportunities for innovation, efficiency and transformation in business and in the public sector. Our standard of living depends on an infrastructure at the level of the best in the world. The point is that users should have the bandwidth necessary to carry out the tasks of a modern broadband society. The Progress Party, like the Government, has previously supported a market-based expansion of broadband. However, developments have shown that public authorities need to be stronger on the ground, and in particular in those parts of the country where there is no market basis for development. Market-based expansion and public demand stimulation have not been sufficient to achieve a satisfactory rate of development. The government continues to have an excessive belief in the ability and willingness of commercial interests to invest heavily in an uncertain market. Norway has large areas that are among the most expensive in the world to expand. At the same time, districts need broadband to create new innovation and opportunities for business development and a good service provision, as well as to help secure the housing pattern. The development of the broadband network will be equally important for the development of future Norway as telephony, electricity, rail, road and water and sewerage networks have historically been for the development of society. The state has played a significant role here. There are historical parallels. Professor Jens Arup Seip called the Norwegian system, developed by Schweigaard, Stang and Broch in the 1850s. All three made themselves known to the market liberalistic outlook of the day, but at the same time they saw that private individuals did not have the financial strength to raise the investments needed to implement the major projects of the time, such as rail and telegraph. Their philosophy was that the state should play a supportive role. Some of them became Right Ideologists after the party was later established. Therefore, it should also be possible for the Right to put its selective state scares away in the issue of broadband expansion. If the country is going to have a task at all, it has to be going in where the market is not working. As a comparison: According to the report, the Swedish state is going in by up to SEK 5.25 billion in the period 2000–2005 for the establishment of broadband infrastructure, with the main emphasis on districts. The Progress Party wants to establish similar arrangements, and we are working with the SV and the Center Party to establish a broadband fund of the order of NOK 3 billion. The objective of the Fund shall be to provide support to municipalities that will invest in broadband development for their inhabitants. Support from the Fund is granted in addition to a municipal equity after an appropriate distribution key and the development is put off for competition. The aid is conditional on the construction by the municipality of a broadband plan that meets certain criteria, inter alia: coordination of development with other municipalities in the region. Today we experience that broadband millions are being wasted among digital little kings. Power companies, municipalities and telecommunications operators are expanding broadband networks for billions, overall, but lack of coordination means that society does not have the full impact of investment. Eyes of precious broadband infrastructure are not bound together. Therefore, the key will be a broadband fund, a ‘Harald Haarfagre.no’, which brings together the infrastructure in a digital realm. It is gratifying that the entire Committee wishes BaneTele to ensure competition in the transport market in a nationwide alternative to Telenor. Furthermore, BaneTele networks should be coordinated with alternative infrastructure locally and regionally, in order to maximise the coverage of a comprehensive national network structure in a company capable of delivering end-to-end solutions across the country. It will provide all service providers, content producers who rely on Telenor today, with a real alternative and thus ensure effective competition. The big deal about BaneTele will provide the department with a clear framework when it comes to presenting a separate case about BaneTele in Stortinget. Living standards and developments in Norway will depend on the level of our digital infrastructure. In a network economy where national borders and physical distances mean less, it will be possible for companies to participate as partners and suppliers in entirely new areas. Value chains are opened to those with competence and infrastructure to be included. As a small country on the outskirts of Europe, we must be at the forefront in the areas where we can participate and determine development, and therefore whether we should be among the leaders or not. Broadband could be a driving force in the modernisation of Norway. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that by this crossroads, the Stortinget will provide the Government with signals and instructions on a stronger public commitment and means that can ensure a necessary pace and good quality of broadband development across the country. I would like to refer to proposals Nos 1 to 6, from the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre Party, and proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e219	The representative Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e224	As the rapporteur said, there is a lot we agree on. But in relation to broadband funds now, there is a clear difference of opinion. The representative Hedstrøm is scalding to Sweden. In Sweden, they have said that they will spend 5.5 billion kroner during 2000–2005. Hedstrom stressed the importance of not wasting funds on what we are about to do. But the proposal from the minority – the Progress Party, SV and the Centre Party – is that we should spend $3 billion in two years. Are they so sure there won't be a waste of money? Will they be able to use them sensibly? Then I have another question. Some municipalities have now taken roofs, including: Vestre Slide, who has spent 800,000 kroner for his travel agency and for his Opel dealer, and has made sure that the companies have broadband. How does Hedstrom think they would see it if we were to go in with such a large-scale financial grant? Would they not feel that they have now made some investments they should have expected?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e233	The minority is disappointed by the Workers' Party, with the ambitions they have, and that Stoltenberg had in his IT statement some years ago, when there were some floor planks in the years 2002 and 2004. I had hoped for a much more offensive attitude, without the small amendments coming from this agreement with the government parties. So to the questions. As we write in our remarks in the setting, of course, we can't say that the amount is exactly NOK 3 billion. Of course, it will depend on the demand from the municipalities. That is why, in our remarks, we write that we need to be able to adjust these appropriations according to the assumed need, as it will report itself. The fact that some municipalities have now been out and have been forward-looking and improved the relationship and competitiveness of the inhabitants and businesses of each municipality is positive, but it does not solve the coordination problems. A broadband fund will address the coordination issue to which the Government and the Workers' Party have no answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e240	The Saxon spokesperson requested to stop BaneTele AS's sale. This wanted representative Hedstrøm regardless of who the buyers were, and he would not let the government bring up a case about BaneTele AS until the representative had taken his position on the matter. It cannot be interpreted in any other direction than that Hedstrom basically believes that the state is a more competent owner than private. What has changed since 1998, when the Progress Party and the Right section of the St. Meld Setup. No 40 for 1997-98 on ownership of business wrote: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right consider that private owners who actively participate in the daily lives of businesses and industrial investors who invest their own funds in industrial projects will manage investments in a better way than public authorities. A public body that places other people's money on business development can never contribute the same level of competence and commitment as an industrial investor who invests its own funds on a project.» Can the representative Hedstrøm briefly do what has changed so that the Progress Party is the principle of state ownership and in more and more areas seems to be fundamentally opposed to private ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e250	In the department, we have worked on a process on BaneTele, without there being any leads to strengthen competition in the telecommunications sector in Norway. Everyone knows that Telenor has a market dominance that they're trying to exploit, and it's no wonder that a corporation will try to make the best of its situation. But without leading to the sale of BaneTele, you can for example: risks the purchase of BaneTele by a listed company, as it is today. Then there is no guarantee whatsoever that a nationwide end-to-end network can be developed that will provide full competition with respect to Telenor. It wants the Progress Party to have it up first. What we're saying in our remarks is that those who today own the fiber can go in as a divider in relation to how much fiber they own, in BaneTele. But in the long term – as noted in the notes – we are also open, as it says, ‘a first step in a process of possible privatisation’.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e255	First of all, I want to give the representative Hedstrøm as the case rapporteur a favourable opinion on the job he has done in managing the work on the broadband message. I think he's done it a very nice way. One of the things that I think is great is that the Progress Party is now very concerned that we're going to get broadband across the country, that we're also going to get broadband in the districts. For those who have followed the policy, the Progress Party has been somewhat unclear about this with the districts up over the years. They haven't been so busy with them all the time. Can we now expect that the Progress Party will continue to be concerned with building infrastructure in the districts and taking care of services in the districts, whether in the postal sector, schools, roads or other things?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e262	We look at the development of broadband as a general instrument, a general framework condition, which should provide equal opportunities for all across the country. I was recently in contact with a computer company that wanted to establish itself in Finnmark, but could not, because there was no online capacity. The committee was traveling in Northern Ireland the other day, and then I talked to someone who wanted to create a digital auction hall for fresh fish in Finnmark to sell goods to the continent, but he couldn't do it, because it wasn't net capacity. We know that in the case of mammography screening that is to be transmitted electronically from Finnmark, it is not possible, because we do not have net capacity. Shouldn't we let all the counties in the country have the same opportunity? We see that as a general framework condition, and so should the so-called bourgeois parties in this room be prepared to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e270	The replicator is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e273	It's hard to predict the future. But one thing we know, computer technology will be a more important and important part of our everyday life. That's why it's important that we, as politicians, make some choices now, so that everyone can have opportunities in the digitalised future. We have to make sure to take the decisions that prevent people from being separated, between town and country, between schools and between children. Everyone must be allowed to participate in future opportunities. The decisions we take in the Chamber today, in the view of the Labour Party, will contribute to this. For the Workers' Party, it is important to keep pace with the expansion and use of broadband. The Stoltenberg government put great emphasis on the work on the Internet and on new technologies. When our IT policy statement was presented in May 2001, it was underlined that the Workers' Party wanted a rapid expansion of the broadband network. And we said in our election program: ‘The aim of the working party is to provide all primary and secondary schools, libraries, hospitals and municipalities with broadband connectivity in 2002. This is also how we can facilitate economic development across the country. All Norwegian households have to be offered broadband connectivity by the end of 2004.» As one hears, these objectives have not been achieved, and it is now necessary to take political action so that the objectives can be achieved within a reasonable time. The government says that during 2005, all primary schools, public libraries and municipal administrations will be offered broadband access at competitive prices. In the Workers' Party, we join that goal. But for us, it was also important to set another goal, that everyone should have an offer. We want broadband for the whole people, to prevent a digital class breakup. The Labour Party and the Government Parties therefore agree that all should have this offer. We are promoting a proposal to facilitate the speeding-up of broadband deployment, so that the broadband target for all households, businesses and public institutions can be achieved during 2007. And we agree that the progress status is referred to in the budgets each year until the target is reached in 2007. As we are now so far behind the Stoltenberg government plan, we are pleased that there is a broad majority behind the 2007 year. The development of broadband across the country is necessary in future rural policies. We know that young people are much more likely to apply for higher education than before. This is centralising, as in many cases jobs are located in central parts of the country. It seems even more centralizing if the districts are lagging behind in technological development. Having access to the technology, you can actually sit and work anywhere and have contact with anyone. Young people who, through their education, have both experience and knowledge of the possibilities of technology will never accept going back to what they call the tools of the Stone Age. That is why broadband development is urgent, and we must ensure that the districts are included. It was important for us in the Workers' Party that we agreed with the government parties that funds should be allocated to areas where the market would never find it profitable to expand. One of the reasons for this is that we are not going to get a two-way split of the offer. Many take, among other things: decentralised education and follow the lectures via the network. If the technology is not available, the knowledge is not available where they live. For the Workers' Party, this is about equality and justice. However, it is important to stress that it is not just those who live far in the districts who lack broadband. I saw in the local style at home that a residential field on the Byafossen with 300–400 households, approx. 3.5 km from Steinkjer Centre, did not receive an offer via Telenor. Unfortunately, they say, there is no planned expansion in your area. ==References== 1 km away lives those who have been so lucky that they have received an offer. This feels unfair. It has been a long time since we in the Business Committee have had a case where there has been such a lot of people with views, as in this case. Many have represented broadband companies, but there have also been individuals with good knowledge and good opinions about the importance of broadband development. Let me also point out that in the Committee's work it has been very good with the case-rapporteur, Mr Hedstrom, in relation to work and progress. Now, as I said, the committee has been informed in both hearings and other information by Telenor that 90 pst. of all subscribers to be offered during 2006. That's all right, but then Telenor first of all has to make sure that people who respond to ads, who want offers, get answers to their enquiry, and second, make sure to have a progress that makes people confident that the goal of Telenor is firm. In the Workers' Party, we are pleased that the Committee is united that the Government must contribute to solutions that create real competition in the broadband market. What matters to the Workers' Party is that BaneTele is given that job and that the company is given a ownership structure and organisation that ensures that the company becomes a nationwide competitor to Telenor by being part of a comprehensive network structure that can deliver end-to-end solutions. We have noticed that there is a great deal of interest in the company, not least through the Broadband Alliance. However, the Labour Party and the government parties agree that we do not take a position on ownership now, but ask for a separate case, where one also looks at BaneTele's future role in broadband development. Many energy plants are at the forefront of offering different solutions for broadband. I see, for example: the Nord-Trøndelag Broadband Company is now launching the idea of building a broadband ring for Namdal and Helgeland. The idea is well received. In such cases, municipalities must become more involved in the development projects. In particular, this will be essential for access to the broadband network for as many people as possible in each municipality. This is because, in addition to the broadband ring itself, local distribution networks need to be established. But it's not just about expansion. We also have to use the network that is already there and that is to be found in the future. In a joint comment from the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, we have therefore pointed out that over 77 pst. Today, the population has access to broadband, but so far only has 19 pst. chosen to become a broadband customer. Of course, this has something to do with price. It is worrying that, for example: a photo shop in Sogn and Fjordane is offered online, but then at a cost of NOK 30 000 per person. month, while the price in Bergen had been NOK 3000. So it's a challenge that, in addition to expanding, we need to have content and offers online. There must of course also be competition on price. When I mention that there are so few people who choose to become online customers, it's important to scale a little bit to Sweden. We have said that we should investigate this with funds. Hedstrom also stated that it would use 5,5 billion kroner from 2000 to 2005. In Sweden, despite the fact that they have now spent a lot of money, the situation is 80 pst. Coverage and 22 pst. which has been connected. We have a common problem with Sweden, that we have to get the use up. We're saying it's going to be set off by funds. Høkommen is doing a good job today, but we have to set aside more funds to stimulate increased use. Together with the government parties, we say that we need more money, and that for the 2005 budget. As I said, we must also discuss the question of a dedicated broadband fund and have it highlighted, among other things. how the EU Structural Fund is now being used for broadband development in the EU Member States. It is also important that we look at what Sweden has experienced, with too much money, to a so-called broadband fund. It's important to us that, as soon as evolution goes, we also update it. The Committee has many common comments. Nevertheless, one will clearly see that the Workers' Party is a little more impatient than the government parties. However, we are very pleased that we have an agreement with the government parties. What we're most in disagreement with the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party about is, as I said, whether it's a good idea to say that we're going to spend $3 billion in two years. That's a lot of money. And it is, not least, in our opinion worth questioning by whether a person is able to use the money sensibly in such a short time. We're all impatient to achieve our goals. But we also have to remind ourselves that broadband is not just broadband. There are several solutions. The working party and the government parties agree that, on the part of the authorities, it should not be those who take out the technology for future broadband networks. One of the areas in which we from the Workers' Party and the government parties agree to look at is the coordination of the development that is taking place. There has been one market so far, and that market has in a way not coordinated itself well enough. It is claimed that part of the expansions and resources used by Høkom have been like shooting with hail. We therefore ask that one look at the possibility of coordination and, where appropriate, who should be responsible. Finally, I would like to address the proposals in the Committee's recommendation, which have been promoted by the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e325	The representative has addressed the proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e330	The reconciliation of the Workers' Party with the Government Parties contributes to creating uncertainty in the context of broadband deployment. Return to next year's government budget and increase to Høkom, and support geographical areas where market-based expansion is not possible. But you don't know what that bet will be, and three-quarters of a year is very long in the digital world. There is no prescription on how to solve the coordination problem. There is a constant trend in individual municipalities, and we are losing more and more by the fact that there is a lack of coordination. So my question to the representative is, does there not have anything more concrete to say about the coordination issue? It is a problem both in the Oslo region – we have, for example. seven fibre cables passing through central struts in Oslo, Groruddalen, without nearly any broadband. And we all know the problem in the districts. In addition, when a broadband offer is to be made in 2007 – can the representative Gaundal define the quality of the broadband offer? It's very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e335	Those who kind of operate in the free market, and have done it so far, say, "How in all the world are you going to solve it? We're in a market. We have no solution to how it can be coordinated. We agree on a proposal in the position that there must be a better system of information obligations when the public is engaged in digging, so that more people can join. But we don't have a solution to how we can coordinate better. It's kind of up to the companies themselves whether they're going to be more coordinated than what they're doing today. Then I hear we're impatient. 2007 is a number for both of us. So we're saying that in 2007, we're all going to have broadband. The centre party, SV and the Progress Party believe by 2007. It separates a year. I think the main thing is that we have almost given a guarantee, that in 2007 everyone should have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e342	The working party is pleased that they have an agreement with the government parties," says Aud Gaundal. To be honest, I think it's the government parties that have the greatest reason to be satisfied with the agreement that's been made, because it's completely uncommitted in any way. New investigations are being carried out, and more funds will be provided in 2005. What are more means? I would have almost said – if it's allowed to say so – that I know the Minister of Industry right, it could be a million. It's going to be interesting to see if the Workers' Party will be satisfied with it. There are no obligations in this. On the other hand, there are new delays, new investigations to be submitted in the context of the 2005 budget. So it's a postponement of an offensive effort on broad construction. When the representative Aud Gaundal has spent time in his efforts to outline the objectives of the government of Stoltenberg, but which has not been achieved, I have to ask her: How long will Aud Gaundal and the Workers' Party accept that large parts of the population will live in what she calls the Stone Age?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e349	It may well be said that the government is most satisfied. But what was important to us when we spoke with the government parties was that we got a year, and we said that during 2007 everyone should have it. It may feel uncommitted, but to us it is a commitment. It is also a commitment in the sense that it is a joint responsibility to ensure that there is some funding in the 2005 budget. The minority claims that what would be the solution is NOK 3 billion. Yeah, maybe we'd come in line with Sweden, which has spent almost $5 billion. They're essentially operating with the same numbers that we're doing, a few percent more compared to how many people have access, and a few percent more compared to who's connected. I think it's important that we, even if we're impatient, take time to look at what we can do to get the use up. But let's see what we agree on in the budget. That's the big question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e358	It's not that many days until 2007, and I think it's a little bit urgent to get from talking to action. In my office, I have collected some of the investigations that have been carried out in the last two or three years in the case of broadband, and that pile is at least 60 cm high. The studies are from different governments and from different people, who have pointed to the need for development. But then you get to the important point: are we willing to spend money on that? And then it's that the Workers' Party again chooses to continue talking about the importance of having to gain experience from Sweden. We said that two years ago and three years ago also that we had to gain experience from Sweden. But there aren't so many days until 2007, and my question to Aud Gaundal is, what do you do in the Labour Party in 2006 if you see that you're far from achieving the goal of having broadband? Would you like to have a big offensive and get a huge investment in 2007 – to get this in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e367	It's sometimes I get too tempted to ask back a little. If the 3 billion have been used in 2005 and 2006, as the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV will, what will they do if the target is not achieved? It may be that there is a coordination, a technological development, that makes us reach the goal. But what is absolutely certain is that we have to spend money in the areas where the market is not yet. So you can discuss: is it the market's fault that there is no broadband in the Groruddalen, in my opinion, in so far as the central route is concerned, or what is it? Is that coordination? I don't have a solution to this, but what we've said is that people should have a guarantee of an offer, and that's kind of strong enough. Then we get the funds that are going to, in place, at least in relation to the districts, because I think that's where the challenges come from. And we're just as concerned about them as the Inge Ryan representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e376	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e379	Let me first give the case spokesman credit for the considerable work that has been done in this setting. In St.meld. No 49 for 2002-2003, Broadband for knowledge and growth, the Government sets three objectives for broadband development. There shall be good market provision for broadband in all parts of the country; there shall be good access to a variety of electronic quality content that facilitates Norwegian conditions; and enterprises shall have sufficient competence to implement and realise the benefits of broadband. A comprehensive committee also points out that the development of broadband across the country, the development of new broadband technologies and the use of broadband technologies are an important issue both for the private and public sectors. Unsurprisingly, it is about how to achieve a set of measures for the expansion and use of broadband. In concrete terms, in view of a possible broadband fund and the ownership of BaneTele AS, the conflict lines in the Committee have gone. The Government’s strategy for broadband development is to facilitate effective competition, stimulate public demand for broadband and assess measures in areas where there is no commercial basis for development. This is otherwise a continuation of the Labour Party policy in its time for the broadband sector, and in line with the OECD's vision. The OECD founding principle is that the role of the State should be to facilitate competition rather than direct intervention, in order not to disrupt market dynamics. Since markets and technology are still developing, the OECD recommends waiting for any public intervention until it is clear which area the market will not cover. In the broadband market in Norway, there is currently considerable dynamism, with an increasing growth in households and companies drawing subscriptions. The actors are also constantly announcing new targets for broadband roll-out. Telenor alone says they will now want 90 pst. of the population during 2005. A total of 150 broadband actors are now established in the country. In addition to Telenor, NextGenTel is now listed, while Catch Communications is likely to be before Easter. Catch, a pure-bred broadband provider to the business market, just produced a positive 2003 figure of 30 million. kr before tax. Bluecom, another broadband provider, also produced excess 2003 figures. There are, therefore, too good arguments behind the proposal put forward by the majority in the Committee on the option of concentrating the use of State resources to current Høkom schemes. The majority of the Committee does not consider it justified to divert state billions into the construction of infrastructure in this area now. Contrary to the Progress Party and e.g. ICT-Norway will limit government parties to intervene stately in non-functioning markets. As the evaluation report on IT Fornebu shows, private lobbyist groups and government billions are not always a lucky combination. Nor should it surprise anyone that representatives of an equipment supplier industry are interested in billions of money for infrastructure development. In the public debate, claims have been made that broadband coverage figures are inflated, by the inclusion of ADSL technology in broadband coverage, while other countries, such as Sweden, are investing in fibre deployment. Expressions such as ‘smalband’ and that this is as if Norwegian long-distance runners have to go on board wooden skis, while Swedish can go on glass fibre skis are frequently used. But today, technology is available that can give subscribers up to 15 Mbit/s on the old copper network. This can hardly be called a narrow band. Managing Director Olav Stokke in NextGenTel says that today there are no real limits to what can be delivered over copper, but that it is not commercially interesting yet. Catch Communications in Bodø says the same thing. Business developer Trond Larsen thinks there are not very many services in the business market that require large bandwidths. This looks at my view of the claims about narrowband and the need for billions of investment in infrastructure in a strange light. The focus should not primarily be on coverage rates and on not building up enough bandwidth, but on why the actual use of broadband is not larger than he is, as Aud Gaundal was in his post, and why not households and businesses demand larger bandwidth. A one-sided focus on the construction of fibre is also not in line with the objective that broadband policy should be technology-neutral. The Government Party takes the view that one of the most important provisions for improving broadband provision is competition on a level playing field in the market. The Working Party and the Progress Party have also joined this option. This majority of the Committee points to the importance of strong competition law and the strengthening of postal and telecommunications supervision in this context. BaneTele AS is not a St.meld theme. No 49. However, case spokesmen have made the company a topic by proposing to stop the ongoing sal process of BaneTele AS. In the Committee, this was supported only by the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The majority of the Committee, the Right Government Party and the Christian People's Party, supported by the Labour Party, ask in the setting that the Government present a case on BaneTele AS for the Stortinget. This means, in particular, that the situation of BaneTele AS is the same as before, by continuing to work on an industrial development of the company, both for the state as owner, for the company itself and for the expansion of broadband in Norway. In its annual report on Norway, published early in this week, the OECD points to the need for major reforms in the Norwegian telecommunications sector and notes that the Norwegian State ownership of the sector should be decommissioned. In view of this, and the fact that the state is still a great owner in Telenor, it is incomprehensible to us in the Right that the Progress Party continues to hold on to its belief in state capitalism and 100 pst. State ownership of BaneTele AS. The government and the majority of the committee have been critical of this matter from a different point of view, first the Government of the contents of St. Announcement. No 49 and then the plurality of the committee for the management of this. One of the critics has been the editor of the Television. In its special edition Megaband on broadband in February, the editor calls for state involvement in infrastructure development, but the next 62 pages of the same publication are actually a thorough evidence of great creativity and investment among various broadband actors across the country. There is no need, above all, to increase the State's influence on reading e.g. the commentary for project leader Svein Eriksen in the broadband community of Troms in the following publication. He simply says: ‘This may be evidence of the functioning of the market.’ Or as Managing Director Kjell Ivar Hansen of Catch Communications, it says in the same issue: ‘It is also a matter of the actors that compete and put themselves in the harness to provide better quality, service and follow-up.’ This says Hansen, who adds that ‘this is, in fact, proof that the approach of Minister of Industry Gabrielsen has been correct’. This representative feels that Hansen's announcement is a good summary of the debate so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e423	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e426	The representative Nornes was very concerned about the free market, that it is the market to control broadband development, and that, in addition, there can be some demand stimulation, which is the policy pursued. But we see that the free market and private initiative do not always work. Proof of this is the problem of coordination. Some municipalities, both in central and in districts, are able to develop well, but do not have any coordination of the networks between different municipalities and regional authorities. That makes us lose significant amounts. I would like to ask the representative Nornes what is the Right Market-based solution to achieve reasonable economic coordination of the different networks. The other thing, which he also came up with, is this with broadband and quality. Does the right represent the OECD definition of what broadband is? It is very important when the Right also commits that everyone should have broadband coverage during 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e433	I believe in this matter only to note that the Progress Party and the Right have slightly different views when it comes to the need for coordination. Right-hand-hand-holding of decentralised structures and shortages is basically positive. We think that the lack and decentralised expansion are actually of the positive, while the Progress Party is constantly pushing away the need for centralisation. It might reflect a little bit of the difference between the two parts, and how they are directed, to put it that way. When it comes to this with the definition of broadband, I also think it should be clear that there are constantly changes in technology. When the Storting four years ago treated broadband, it was added to a definition of broadband. Today, for example, we have. obtained wireless broadband, satellite broadband and many other things that were not mentioned at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e440	Erlend Nornes is quite right that the market is working. We've seen that in relation to what's happened so far. Where the market base and competition are the largest, offers are first made, and there are also opportunities to obtain the best prices. Where competition is low and returns are low, prices and offers are then both available. These parts of the country are offered last and get the highest prices, as we have been illustrated in previous articles as well. So the market works exactly as the market is going to work. But what I want to ask the representative, Mr Nornes, is this: what is it that the role of the state in the road sector should not be the same as that of the representative for this area, that is, to facilitate effective competition, as you say? Why not allow private investment in the road sector and finance it through user payments in the form of road charges or tolls etc. and use competition in exactly the same way in another important infrastructure area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e447	The right-hand side does not initially have any negative influence on the ability of private operators to participate in road development. We have e.g. pointed out in several respects the potential for public private cooperation in the road sector. In this context, it is interesting to point out that, while the Central Party has recently had a very high degree of insolence when it comes to the development of broadband infrastructure, there has not been a correspondingly high level of enthusiasm to support the development of road infrastructure. For example, the last national roads were asphalted in 2003 – 40 years in overtime – and during the 40-year period, the Senterparti has had the Prime Minister, and the representative Enoch has his own seat in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e452	Right is part of a multi-partial that asks the Government to submit, in the context of the 2005 State budget, an assessment of the coordination of broadband deployment. When I listened to the representative Norne's no, it seemed as if he was against all kinds of coordination. I would like to clarify that, because we from the Labour Party think something about the proposal for a decision. It's clear, as the representative Hedstrom said, that if there are seven parallel networks somewhere and nowhere else, it might be an idea to see if you could coordinate it a little bit better. I wonder if we should build sections of roads or routes that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e459	Of course, it is not such that the Right is against all forms of coordination. We can show a number of examples of effective coordination in this area. For example, there are 18 municipalities in the South that cooperate with private actors, and there are corresponding regional examples around the country, including those in the region. in Troms. The problem when it comes to the model that the rapporteur wants, i.e. a broadband fund to coordinate and coordinate broadband deployment, is that we in Right think it might be contrary to the principle of a technology-neutral policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e466	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e469	We have had some important developments in Norway that have meant a lot to the whole country. We've built out power, we've built out the phone, and we've also built out television and radio. And then you have almost 100 pst. of Norway’s inhabitants’ access to these goods. But it has always been so that it has been in the central lines it has come first. I remember when I was a boy and we heard that there was something like hot television, that was in Oslo and Trondheim, and there was one who got hold of a giant cable and a long pole, and got it up in the air, up in a tree. And then we should watch television for the first time. Then there was snow on the screen, and then we thought that we painted a ski jumper – someone at least thought it was a ski jumper, others were unsure if that was what we saw. Gradually we have moved on, so that everyone today has a clear TV picture. And what's the ambition of what we're facing today is that also what many people today have access to, that is broadband, which allows us to communicate in a completely different way, is going to be an offer that all households get in a relatively short time, that is, by 2007. Then the question of being willing to give Utsira, with its 230 inhabitants, is as good an offer as you have on Aker Brygge – it will be one of the major challenges here – or whether we in a way accept that we should have a distinction, where the peoples, where the market of course has the opportunity to make good money, have a better quality offer than the areas in the country where there are little people, and where there is, of course, little money to earn, if you think of the market. That's the challenge, I think, for this room; if you're willing to be as brave as you were when you built out the power – you secure all the power – and when you built out the phone and after every radio and television. I don't feel sure about it. But it'll show the future, and we'll see about it. In the case of broadband, a good deal has already happened. I, who have put a lot of puzzles with the kids, could have wished you could turn the whole puzzle around and start over. In this case, I could have thought of turning the puzzle around, so that we could just now start adding the pieces from the bottom of. Here, so much has been done both privately and publicly, so that today there is an almost unwieldy network of companies and infrastructure. That is why – if I could be allowed to come up with the ideal solution – we would have started with blank sheets and put broadband in the quite country and coordinated this in a completely different way. One of the main challenges facing the Minister of Industry and the Government after the decision today is to ensure that everything that is on the grid today, and that all those who are already on the road, coordinate, so that we get the most rational and efficient use of what is already done in this area. So to another challenge, and it's about technological developments, that go so very fast. The question is, when is it right to bet on broadband? Is this the right time, and is that the technology we now have, which is the right one? If the fiber is the right one, it has to pass through the air, there has to be copper cables – or what should it be? This is a hopeless discussion, because it's kind of like waiting until you find the perfect PC. Then you never buy a PC, because it's like a fresh product: there's going to be something new in that area all the time. So I think with the information we have today, the time has come to take a power cap, as the Storting adds up to. I believe that the SV, the Center Party and the Advance Party here are far more ambitious in taking that force, than the Government and the Workers' Party are. A total accumulation at least agrees that you have to do something, and sailing about the willingness to put in funds is something different, I feel that the ambitions, in words at least, are relatively similar. That means we're going to get high-quality broadband coverage across the country over three to four years. We are promoting a proposal, together with the Progress Party and the Centre, for a broadband fund of DKK 3 billion. It's not that we're so good at calculating, that we're sure it's going to cost NOK 3 billion – it might cost NOK 2 billion, or it's going to cost NOK 4 billion – but we've got information, among other things. from ICT Norway, which has indicated an amount of that amount. We have to kind of signal a level of ambition that tells us that we're willing to spend a lot of money to achieve the goals we're talking about. In the meantime, we must adjust this in the context of the annual reports from the Department and the Council of State. We have also received some other information, and most of them are around the amount of NOK 3 billion. That's why we've suggested this as a reasonable amount to set aside for that purpose. But it is not certain that the amount would be exactly NOK 3 billion when you had reached all the households, if we had received a majority for this proposal. I ask you to understand that. BaneTele has come up as part of the debate. It's announced, and it's a majority for here in Stortinget that we'll get our own case on BaneTele later. But let me sketch out a little bit of SV's view of it. I think there are some areas where it's important that the government has control and control over, that's when it comes to natural resources and infrastructure. BaneTele has a formidable infrastructure today. We believe it is important that the public has full control over this infrastructure. The state can do this in an excellent way, but it is also possible to do so, for example: cooperation between municipalities and county councils can be a solution. We will get back to that when the matter comes to Stortinget. But what we want to warn against is that you start selling out BaneTele to private actors, so that we lose control of an infrastructure that the Norwegian people depend on, and that we use very much. I will end: I believe that in the future we must be willing, as a big deal, whether we go for one or the other proposal, to set aside the money we need in order to achieve our goals in 2007. Many people turn to us as representatives and in fact are disappointed that there is a lot of talk about this matter and done relatively little. So we have a collective responsibility to achieve those goals, and I think this can be an equally important event – expansion – as the television was, and as the phone was, in its time. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Centerparity and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e490	The representative of Inge Ryan has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e495	To a very small surprise, I have registered SV's wish for a so-called faster development, where together with the Progress Party and the Center Party stands for this predictable concept. But is this, when we see evolution, seeing the numbers, something other than a political auction over who's going to be best at having political ambitions? What else can you call this, especially when you like to refer to Sweden as an example? When we see that we have had a much faster and larger development in Norway in the last few years in relation to connectivity than we have had in Sweden, the question of the representative Ryan has to be: in what other area in our country do we see developments and growth happening faster than in the broadband sector, and this in a time that is difficult for commercial enterprises in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e501	The representative of Kristiansen was a bit skeptical about auctioning. I'm not skeptical about it. Auctioning can be a good thing in many contexts – just for mentioning it. Perhaps there is also a need for an auction in the political landscape sometimes, to get rid of the stain, so that you don't just stay on site resting. In this context, I think it is really important that we get rid of the stain, because we see that there are some areas in Norway that do not actually get broadband development unless the Storting is willing to make sure that funds are allocated. These are in particular the areas that the undersigned and also the representative of Kristiansen are concerned with – namely, District Norway. We see that we have a huge relocation from the districts, we see that there must be a series of grips. One of the grips is the need to be able to compete on a level playing field with infrastructure, and then it is broadband that is now the infrastructure in which industrial development is lagging behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e506	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e509	It is an important matter that is being dealt with here in Stortinget today, and I would like to introduce the honour of the case spokesman for a thorough preparatory work in the process that has led up to the setting today. It's a raging development within this sector, which just wants to shoot speed. It is important for Norway, and it concerns everyone. I am pleased that the vast majority of the proposals from the Government of the message will be welcomed and supported here in Stortinget. Both in St. meld No. 49 for 2002–03 and through the Committee’s discussions, some of the objectives to be achieved at national level through broadband are highlighted. Historically, infrastructure has been very important for the development and design of social conditions. In relation to the issue we are discussing today, it is close to drawing the parallel to the extensive expansion of the power grid that started a hundred years ago. The electricalization of the country gave the noise to a raging industrial development and the emergence of a welfare society where electricity is naturally a basic asset. There is also reason to recall that electricity benefited both city and country. Today, we are facing the development of another type of infrastructure, another life-giving communications network, i.e. broadband. In today’s information society, access to broadband is a prerequisite for companies to be competitive in a market that no longer recognises the traditional boundaries and where new products and markets are created at a high pace. Broadband will also be able to improve public services through the use of new ways of working and new information systems to streamline activities. Broadband has an important regional policy dimension. Broadband will provide a better balance between urban and district business by providing businesses with access to the same electronic behalf. For districts, it is very important to increase and improve opportunities for diverse and viable jobs. Broadband will reduce the distance constraints experienced by districts in many areas today. Norway is a rich country. The challenges of economic policy are simply to maintain the use of oil money. If we look at projections when they relate to economic development, this still shows a potentially unpleasant scenario. We're facing a value-creating gap. This value-creating gap corresponds to the increased value creation we have to do over time to keep up our wealth level. Traditionally competitive industries have limited prospects for growth. We therefore need growth to a greater extent in other parts of the competitive economy. In this setting, broadband is one of several tools that are absolutely fundamental and have a very important role to play in helping us to create value. The development and expansion of broadband and technology design will play a decisive role in the development of Norwegian society. The intention and vision of the Government in broadband development focuses on the availability and coverage of the electronic infrastructure throughout the country. This will also provide a competitive advantage for business and growth opportunities for knowledge-based industries, as well as for the modernisation of the public sector. The content and services have to be developed in line with market developments, and organisations and individuals have to have the skills to make the profits. The importance for public and private enterprises of accessing electronic infrastructure is quite invaluable. I believe that concrete objectives, strategies and the role of the individual actor are evidence of an offensive and good initiative in an area that is constantly evolving. There are important steps that need to be taken and that will have a major impact on further development and on how to create a more innovative society. However, when it comes to the development and expansion of broadband, it is important to clarify that there is no need to focus solely on infrastructure. Special content is important. This means finding new opportunities — goods and services that not only transfer old methods to new technologies. It is important that such services can be provided through all channels of communication and that these services become interactive. From the Government's side, it is important to assume that the content industries have the same framework as other types of business. We need a viable content industry that develops. In the case of Høkom, it is important that a bet on this programme in the future. I feel that the synergy that this has created is of great importance for private and public cooperation. It is therefore very important that the 2005 budget includes an increase to stimulate increased use of broadband as a continuation of the important work already under way in Hoekom. The work done here can contribute greatly to the full coverage of broadband across the country within a reasonable time. In the case of the transport network for telecommunications, this is largely composed of fibre optic cables. These transport networks facilitate the use of infrastructure for different purposes. We need to be aware that basic guidelines are being put in place for the extraction of fiber optic transmissions that benefit many people in the areas they pass. Lights is one of the companies that are part of the broadband alliance, and it's a company that I've had the pleasure of getting closer to. Social responsibility is central to Lighte, which is owned by 16 municipalities, and this responsibility goes hand in hand with a healthy, business-economic principle. The company is also distinguished by its great ability to achieve the goals set. The municipal owners have a long-term industrial perspective for the enterprise. Furthermore, it is an explicit objective to stimulate the development of the economy throughout the region that owners represent — and it is both a city and a country in South Rogaland. In order to reach out with broadband, it is important that companies have competence. In this way, it has been exciting to witness the product development that has taken place in Light, which now offers television, movies, the Internet and Internet telephony on a single subscription. The fibre optic broadband network itself has a capacity of 2-10 Mbit/s. The product has been very well received, and it is on a franchise basis in the process of being exported to other parts of the country. It is interesting to see how knowledge in terms of infrastructure planning, construction and operation is used for new value creation. Lights and the other energy companies already have comprehensive customer care systems, which are important for establishing themselves in the market. The development may also take place in parallel with the development of other infrastructure, typically for South Rogaland, where Light natural gas networks are now in operation. It is also an important point that companies have economic muscles to build broadband. History is on the energy company's side. They have shown that they can compete, and they can change society around them, with a secure anchor in the field of tension between the economy and business. It gives exciting perspectives for broadband expansion in their direction. In the case of BaneTele, Telenor and BaneTele are mainly the two actors offering transmission capacity for signal transport over longer distances. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to clarify the meaning that Telenor has a competing actor, and that these two together cover the whole country. We also look forward to the message about BaneTele, and believe that it is important that those who enter the owner's page have a long-term business perspective. To achieve this objective, I believe it is important that there is competition in the market, while at the same time taking strategic action to promote the desired development. In this context, I think it is interesting that six cooperative power companies have indicated an interest in entering the owner's site in BaneTele, with a view to creating a competing end-to-end supply of broadband services. Finally, I would like to say that I believe it is important that we focus on and prioritise the development and expansion of broadband, as it has been shown that the Government does in the processing of this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e545	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e548	I agree with Mr Gedrem that the content of the broadband offer is important. When the majority wants to give broadband to everyone in 2007, it must also be an obligation for the majority to tell what this content should be. The representative, Kristiansen, said earlier in a reply with the representative, Ryan, that development is faster in Norway than in Sweden. But this is not at all comparable, because Sweden stands for quality. They use a lot of fiber – and fiber in combination with radio – and it gives a bandwidth that is something quite different from what Telenor offers, which is the dominant player in the districts today. Telenor is based on existing copper lines, and it will be very difficult to provide an adequate range of services to the districts using copper. We also know that the price of leased lines from Telenor is so huge that there will be no realistic offer of 90 pst. coverage. Could the representative be so kind as to say how he will oblige the Christian People's Party to say something about the quality of the broadband offer to be made in 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e557	There were two questions Hedstrøm mentioning – for the first time how this communication should be conducted, and for the second, what kind of band we should have. I trust the actors will find more options. There is not only one way to resolve this in communication. There are several options that are currently established and which are evolving. Either copper, fibre or air, this will be an exciting and versatile development. The market, research and development will show what society is best placed to do in the future. When it comes to content, the Christian People's Party, as I said in my post, is also busy getting a focus on this. I'm referring specifically to Light, which has had a market research with regard to what consumers want, while at the same time they have served the services they think they can provide technologically. It creates an exciting mix. I see a development in which we will get a content that is interesting and useful to consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e566	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e569	In 1896, the Stortinget took a decision on the expansion of the national telephone. They made a decision to stop that expansion at Namsos, because, as was said at that time, the country north of Namsos was too widely populated to allow the benefits in any way to be proportionate to the cost of building up the national telephone further north. It was to the extent of an honest big thing that said: you're too few, you can't get the offer that the rest of the country will get. That decision did not stand for many years before Stortinget realized that the whole country had to participate in the technological development as access by telephone at the time. Sometimes you might wonder if there is something of the same thing that characterizes today's big business when you make decisions on this matter today, but you use a little different words. You leave to the market to say no to those who are too few; you dare not take that responsibility yourself. The impression is that everyone should be able to get this offer within a reasonably short period of time, but there is no means at all for it to happen. You can also sometimes wonder if it's the way some people still live in the error that broadband access is of particular interest, which is what computer friers or guys in the boys' room need most, when they're going to surf the web and play games with their friends. It is possible that there are those living in such an error, but in my opinion broadband deployment is the most important infrastructure effort being made today. If someone thinks this is something of special interest, they take as much mistakes as a former top manager of one of the world's largest computer companies, IBM, did when he said he assumed that the world-wide market for computers was roughly equivalent. five computers. It's not so bad many years since you had that belief in how the IT community would evolve. And we've seen how thoroughly wrong this top boss took that time. Use of information technology is a model for a country like Norway, with the pattern of housing we have. It provides opportunities for the decentralisation of public tasks, provides opportunities for business start-ups that require the transfer of large amounts of data — and those establishments can be established anywhere in the country. It provides opportunities for decentralisation of education in a completely different way from what we have so far, and it also provides opportunities for all schools in the country to access information online in a completely different way than they can today. It offers new opportunities for industry to continue training and, in particular, it can reduce the cost to industry of using videoconferencing as an alternative to expensive travel. Telemedicine is another area that I think will have a tearing development in the future. The safe transfer of data from patients to hospitals will help primary doctors diagnose correctly, thus saving lives. This is an area where Norway is in fact far ahead, and where there is nothing to suggest that development should not be able to accelerate further if the necessary infrastructure is in place. And then I haven't mentioned the offers that will come in the cultural and film sector – i.e. what you might call the 'goods market' – that perhaps most people will make use of, and that will be important for each of us in the future as well. I guess no one in this room disagrees with any of the possibilities that I've outlined here. I guess all of the speakers have been in some of the same areas. Disunity arises when we discuss how to give people across the country access to these services. Is it the willingness to pay in a market that is essential, or is it to be a social responsibility in line with other infrastructure, where the public is to take a great responsibility to ensure that everyone has equal access and equal opportunities, irrespective of their place of residence and income? It must be essential to give the opportunity to realise what I called the digital all-man rights four years ago – everyone should be able to participate in the new information and knowledge society. So far, we've seen that we have big differences in terms of rate of expansion and price. It has been illustrated not least by the Workers' Party's female. There is a development that is unacceptable and that can only be done by taking some political action. The market will not be good enough throughout the country for us to get almost equal prices or almost equal quality on the web that comes. Some areas will be continuously in second division and have access to lower capacity at higher prices than the areas where the market is best. This is an unacceptable development, and therefore, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Centre Party, a far greater responsibility should be assumed in public than has been done so far. There are questions about whether the majority bet is to waste money – in 3 billion dollars is what is going to be, or whether it will be tossing away the money. There's probably too little money for us to give this offer at the price it should have, by 2007, but in a line here earlier it was asked: what if this isn't enough when we get to 2007, if it turns out that we haven't managed to achieve the goal using the NOK 3 billion? Yes, then the Center Party is actually willing to spend more money to achieve that goal. I would like to remind you that in some other important infrastructure areas, we are spending completely different amounts. With regard to the road sector, every year we spend 12 billion dollars to ensure that the entire population access to the infrastructure that we all agree on is necessary for the nation to evolve – 12 billion dollars every year! We spend almost 5 billion dollars each year on rail. And then you ask if a bet over three years of $3 billion is to throw money out of the window, or if it really is necessary to spend so much money. Yeah, I actually think that's necessary. What's a shame is that the majority are making it possible that now we're going to wait even longer and see if it's necessary to use the funds. So there are some people who today need broadband access, or who in the near future need it, who won't, because the majority won't bet what's necessary to give this offer to everyone. And then you have to do new investigations and new assessments to see how much money you need to spend. This is not going to happen. I had actually believed that the Workers' Party would see the significance of such an offensive initiative – but unfortunately! In contrast to the Progress Party, which is ideologically believed to have taken the position that the Workers' Party has now taken, the Workers' Party is supporting the Government's line of action, the rates of market strategies, and the situation awaits. New investigations are being prepared in the 2005 budget. There are non-committal formulations about more money – there is no world thing about how much that bet should be; only more money should be put in. In fact, I think the editor of the TV, who said last week that broadband is exposed, is absolutely right. That's a striking description of what we're doing now. It's actually a disappointment today. I would have thought that we had now come to the time when it would be possible for an aggregate increase to realize that this is an infrastructure that will help to bring Norway into the new knowledge society, and give us the necessary promise to participate in the information and knowledge society throughout the country. That's not happening. I am particularly disappointed with the Workers' Party, which in this case could be with and establish another majority. Just because the Progress Party took the position they did, it was actually this time the Workers' Party that would be heavy on the scale. A clear direction could be set in the direction of appropriations, if not otherwise, then in 2005, and clear objectives could be set for what development should be like. However, instead of doing so, the strategy adopted by the government of Stoltenberg in eNorway in 2005. We have long since passed the goals that the government of Stoltenberg set itself at that time. It has not been possible to achieve any of the objectives within the time limits set by the government. The same strategy has been pursued – one will wait a while and see, and now the goal has been pushed out a little in time with the government parties. Now it is said that the goal that Stoltenberg set for 2002 will be achieved in 2005. And then the entire population will be offered in 2007 – as opposed to 2005, which was the original ambition. It will be interesting to see how many times the Workers' Party will allow itself to push on that goal, before realizing that this must be a public responsibility, where the public must enter far larger areas and with far greater amounts than it has so far been willing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e603	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e606	At the time when the representative Enoch and I went to high school, we were equipped with a calculating rod. It was a phenomenal instrument, which we used. Then we experienced in one year, and I think it was in 1974, that the arithmetical staff became completely immature – the mini-calculator made its entrance. A parallel to that story is also seen in the development of broadband. Today, broadband is defined as a two-way communication network capable of transmitting different types of data, such as text, sound and images. The network must be able to carry new services and allow many to use them at the same time. In 2000, while Enoxen himself was the State Council, the definition of broadband was: capacity in the telecommunications network. My question is therefore: does not the representative of Enoxsen see that technology development is so fast that putting government funds in here is playing with taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e615	It is quite right that progress is fast and that this is a challenge for this sector. I also remember the time we had a phone where we floated on a swing. We even had the signal two long and one short, and we were seven pieces on the same line. She who was sitting at the central station left home at 5 p.m. 20, and after that time it was not possible to call. But no one thought that we should wait until we had a digitised phone before we started expanding the phone. Then we would actually be at a completely different level of development today than what we are doing. I've long had plans to buy a digital camera like this that's so modern today, but I'm always waiting, because there's new models coming every six months. I'm absolutely convinced that I can continue to do that in times like this, because new models are still going to get away with it. We simply have to make a political choice here. This is not a debate on technology, this is a debate on politics. Do we want this to be a technology that should be available to everyone across the country, regardless of residence and economy? It will be the Center Party, and that is what must be at the root of the choices we are making, not if in the future there will be a technology that makes today's technology obsolete.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e627	Telenor pointed out in her letter to the Business Committee of 10 February that a residual market would reach a maximum of 10 pst. by households during 2006. Does the Central Party not see that the Høkom programme, and in particular the district programme, will address the concern of Enoxsen for the districts? Question 2: What about those municipalities that have already invested large sums in broadband development? Does the Centre Party have thoughts about them, or does this – when thinking about this fund – become funds for those who have been sitting on the fence waiting for public funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e634	The answer to question 1 is short and well no. It's not good enough for the Center Party to have 90 pst. will have access to the ADSL, and I hope it's not good enough for the government parties. 10 pst. In fact, the population means quite large geographical areas, and it affects a great many people if it is to be the goal with which the Government is to be satisfied. There will always be a problem when one relies on a blending model, that some will have access to public support and others will not. It's the whole intention of this fund. In areas where the market is good enough and where reasonable prices are developed without public intervention, it is all right. It's already well under way, and it's been built out there. But in the areas where you won't get it, there is a need for a greater government commitment to get down to the same prices, to avoid being like for this photo store in Sogn and Fjordane, to which Aud Gaundal referred, who paid NOK 30000 a month, instead of NOK 3000 if they had been located in Bergen. Just to help this type of enterprise to get a lower price, a public exposure is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e641	The representative, Mr. Enoksen, said in his speech that the Workers' Party in some way became the retarder in this arrangement because we were not willing to say yes to broadband funds now. But neither of us grants money from today! All parties are talking about increased appropriations from 2005, and then of course we can argue about who is adding the largest amounts. But in terms of being late, that's the 2005 budget we're all talking about. So a little bit in relation to the technological development. I agree with Mr Enoksen that 10 pst is not good enough. If it's ADSL they want, someone could imagine something other than ADSL. But it is not the case that the 3 billion DKK for which the Central Party, SV and the Advance Party are in favour, are to be used only for districts? One also talks about using it to reduce prices, and then it would have been good to hear: how much of the money is meant for districts, and how much is meant to reduce the price?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e648	I think it's actually an affordable task to define the areas where the market will not be good enough, where prices will be too high, and where there will be a need for greater government involvement. Those areas are no expansion today, and we all know that there are areas where it will be necessary to go in with funds. The point of using such a fund, or of using a public contribution, is that with such participation prices will fall, not in the form of price regulation, but because the cost of development – which each individual has to pay – will be lower when there is also a public involvement in it. This will result in lower prices. So it's true that the minority is proposing appropriations that are mainly due in 2005. The problem with what the majority is doing is to continue the efforts that have been made so far, and then to examine the 2005 budget, which will address the need for public involvement in areas where the market is not large enough. It involves a delay in the development that I had actually not thought the Workers' Party was going to go for in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e655	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e658	When I grew up, and that's a long time ago, we had, as Odd Roger Enoksen said, telephone lines and ladies, and I remember the phone lady we had, saying that the Bastesen kids, they should have a phone on their backs. She should have known just how right she was – we don't have a phone on her back, but we have it in our pocket. We all have cell phones. Today we are discussing the expansion of broadband, and broadband expansion is taking place in local island communities. Some municipalities are betting and getting it done. However, different sites choose different solutions — which do not necessarily communicate with each other. For example, when you have: setting up a local video conference, there are great opportunities for noise in communication with other areas. Unregulated competition between different private actors can often lead to the deliberate creation of solutions that block competing systems. This gives you a long period of bankruptcy and conversion, until the strongest company has extinguished all its competitors and systems. This is expensive for consumers. What can we do to ensure that broadband development follows such an inappropriate pattern? The Coastal Party considers that it is necessary to require that the broadband networks established be seamless in relation to the other networks. Only in this way can it be ensured that appropriate and consumer-friendly systems are established. I can mention that there are several useful solutions. There is a lot of disagreement about what can be marketed as a broadband solution for different actors. The public should set a minimum bandwidth requirement of 2 Mbit/s so that all broadband users are guaranteed a certain quality of the offer. Today many different solutions are used for broadband. Digital ground, fibre optic cables, satellite satellite satellite satellite satellites, etc. Now that we have decided to build a digital ground network to distribute TV programmes and other things, it is important that those responsible for this expansion be given full freedom to put into practice the most important technology we have today in the broadband sector. The coastal party believes that NTV should consider testing the system called ‘Ultra-wide band’. This system has great advantages both in capacity, health and economic terms. In relation to the capacity that is now proposed in the digital ground net, we're talking about a time-lapse. The system does not transmit the harmful radio waves that the current digital network does. And the system only requires a fraction of the electrical energy needed to operate the current system. A broadband network is to compare with a modern road system, and will be important for business, not least in the districts. A rich nation such as Norway should be willing to invest significant sums to improve its broadband network. This could help to compensate for the competitive disadvantages we have with expensive labour and large geographical distances to the markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e677	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e680	The representative Bastisen said in his statement that competition in the broadband market is expensive for consumers. Does the representative Bastesen also believe that competition in, for example, The mobile phone market has led to higher prices for consumers than if, for example: Telenor Mobil should have built up the GSM network on its own?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e687	On this question, I would say that it has always been expensive to live in a world of cannibalism. The one that's eaten thinks it's terrible, but the one that's eaten thinks it's very good. That's what I'm pointing out that we can experience in the broadband development that's going on today, because we don't know who's finally sitting with the joker. But digging up all of Norway takes time and is expensive. We have to find other solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e694	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e697	A debate on broadband is not a small debate. It is about preparing for the future, and with this broadband communication, we are giving an important lead to the choices we are going to make, given Norway's economic and industrial policy for a new era. Broadband will be the foundation of the new knowledge society, while broadband will be the key prerequisite for achieving a district policy that allows both homes and jobs to be maintained across the whole country. The development of sustainable communities is important and requires that both businesses and people find it attractive to continue living and living in the districts. Adequate broadband for all is therefore to be considered as equally important as any other infrastructure in a modern society. In this perspective, debate on a broadband fund is small. I will not underestimate the importance of following up policy objectives with the allocation of money, but that does not mean that the nature of broadband bet or not be determined by a fund or not. I see that parts of the ICT industry have made the fund debate their big concern. It's unnecessary. My appeal to the industry is to seize the opportunities that lie in the broad political consensus that has already been put in place. Over time, there has been a lack of constructive cooperation between the market and authorities in order to achieve a nationwide broadband development, with a capacity that provides new opportunities for both individuals, the public sector and industries. The old industrial community was created by building infrastructure, building corner stone farms and using the whole country. This is also the challenge today, and this challenge is so great and so important that it cannot be left to the market alone. Cooperation is required, and in this cooperation, the challenge of the authorities is not to turn the new industrial trip into just a budgetary debate. We need to build the new knowledge society. It is the challenge of political Norway to formulate the vision of this future, based on the new technology, the new knowledge of technology, and with it also ensuring both the people's power and the well-being of the new era. The old industrial trip in Norway was a struggle to create opportunities for the many – as I said, both at work and in leisure – and that will also be the new industrial trip. For ordinary people, the meeting with a mobile phone and a PC may be the first close contact with the future. It may appear to be a simple and everyday affair, where the technique is equally available to all. But that's not the actual reality, because behind a PC and behind the Internet, there's not only a technique, there's also a production content and a transport stage. And it's here, maybe, the real power struggle about the future lies. It is in this perspective that the proposal that BaneTele becomes a nationwide competitor of Telenor is important. It will ensure both effective competition and opportunities for social governance that will be necessary to achieve the policy objectives set by the authorities and that the market alone will not be able to meet. As a public owned transport network, BaneTele will be able to establish different strategic cooperation projects that could develop an end-to-end connection across the country. In the information society, a unilateral dependence on some actors with influence over both electronic networks and content and services will represent an unpleasantly strong power. It will tie up individuals, groups and businesses to an extent that we may not have seen in the past — with great consequences for the Norwegian economy. Therefore, effective competition in the broadband market today is important in order to ensure delivery neutrality in the networks. Printing was in its time a monopoly in the service of the one-sided kingly power. This monopoly was broken, and the French revolution was possible. It's a historical example that gives perspectives, because today's digital reality with the Internet has become a sort of revolutionary force in countries with authoritarian and totalitarian regimes. The Internet is a communication system that allows people to freely exchange information and knowledge across borders. The Internet - technology - has no national boundaries. It is not only in the political field but also in the economic sphere. Electronic communications today have the power to change the interest rate market in the United States in the morning, which will affect the Norwegian economy a little later that same day. That's as fast as it gets. It's so hard to control. We're facing those challenges. So we can say, acutely worded: the cynical speculative economy is only possible in a digital everyday life, and it raises the question of the ability to control this digital everyday life. Digital everyday life can be democratic, but it can also be undemocratic, and then it is our political challenge to make it democratic. If we don't do that, it's not just a national problem. It is also an international problem, because it will intensify and widen the division between rich and poor countries in this world. It will be a gap that will challenge us in relation to other political tasks, one of which is formulated as a new, harmonious world order. We cannot break the machine, nor should we try. We're going to travel the new business, in line with the desire for security that people have, and in line with the opportunities that lie within this technology. We need to look at new technology. We need to look at the possibilities as an offer to people and not as a threat. It is important for Norway, and it is important for its economy, that broadband deployment leads to a cost level of network services that makes Norwegian online business internationally competitive. It is difficult for Norwegian knowledge establishments and environments of excellence that claim to be well international, to a large extent also to be sold abroad. All sales are not bad — in some cases Norwegian environments of competence offer completely new opportunities for development. But in other cases, we may lose crucial building blocks and engines in our future business development and job creation. Norway needs a better strategy to use its State capital strength to ensure national ownership of corner stone holdings in the new knowledge society. The country needs to attract fields of investment for future value creation and see the vital social benefit of having head offices and conducting research and development of the advanced knowledge industry in Norway. Our challenge is therefore: we must ensure the development of the digital future, so that it takes place under popular and democratic control against capital power and profit. We must prevent power concentration in large groups by ensuring that broadband networks are independent and open to all suppliers. We need to strengthen users' ownership of local networks for which they pay in housing, businesses, etc., so that they can choose between programme and service providers themselves, and we need to work to ensure that local democracy also includes the development of the electronic community, so that the traditions of the people's regime are anchored and continued. We need to exploit and strengthen the interaction between local broadband networks and prevent digital distinctions between social groups, and help to make resources more rapidly available for deployment in areas where such networks are lacking. That is how we ensure a living district policy. That's how we guarantee a local business. This is how we ensure the possibility of education and culture in the communities. In this perspective, I would say something that has been tried to say: the promise of expansion during 2007 is imperative. It's serious. It's totally unnecessary to spend time discussing it. Then there will be questions, as the representative Ryan said, about how we are going to bring together the forces and the possibilities for this to be implemented in a sensible interaction between the market and the authorities. The size is facing a challenge. The market is facing a challenge. We say yes to that challenge, and then we make sure that we implement it, despite the fact that we're a little late.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e733	Although some people in this debate try hard to describe a deplorable development, I feel that there is actually a relatively large consensus in this debate about the developments we are facing. So it's quite normal that some people want to extend the level of ambition a little bit longer than others. In this area, this debate does not stand out from other debates. It is by no means very surprising to see who has been in class with each other. Like others, I will give tribute to the President-in-Office for his work on this matter. At the same time, I would also like to pay tribute to the cooperation that the government parties have had with the Workers' Party in this matter, where I feel that a very responsible and yet forward-looking attitude has been taken towards developments in the broadband market. I think it's worth being aware that in Norway today we have available technology that can provide speeds on the copper network of at least 15 Mbit/s. Trying to describe this as a so-called narrow band, I think those who have followed the development of the last few months will be very questionable. The developments we see in Norway are defined, I think, later on as very cost-effective. It's a very effective extension we've seen. It has not been the ideal goal that one would like to pursue politically, but it is an achievable model that has been achieved, which harmonizes well with the demand we look for such services today. Then, in my opinion, it is a little sought out in the topographically populated Norway to compare with any other country. In this debate, some choose to compare our country with Sweden, which has followed advice different from that of most OECD countries. But we see that despite the fact that the Swedish state has ploughed down billions in fibre networks, the demand and degree of connection in Norway are in the process of resuming the Swedish system. Then the comparison with Sweden – whether it's Swedish skiers or ski jumpers, or there are treskies or other kinds of skis – becomes the same line as with Swedish ski jumpers, there will be a fast landing on the top of the ball in this debate. If you're going to follow the advice the opposition gives, there's a governmentization of responsibility and policy design that I think the last two-three-four years' development has proven is not the way to go. Today, in Norway, we have almost the best available technology and knowledge in this area. We have approx. 150-160 professional actors who have gone the so-called commercial road ahead, and we should not have the political ambition to limit their pace. This has produced results. I'm in line with everyone else who has said that the big challenges we have ahead of us, of course, are those areas that don't have the big commercial interest, that is, Rest Norway, if you want. There I feel that we need to put the broad side to and use the public, state resources, both in terms of technology development, and in terms of strengthening content and demand, which is really the important part of what we have to deal with today. I think that we could have liked to have cooperated with our neighbouring nations, the other Arctic nations, to look at those areas within Norway and also in our neighbouring countries that will be struggling with the latest levels and forms of connectivity. In Norway, we would like to take the initiative to conclude a cooperation project with other Arctic countries on the population that is currently not commercially available. In such a cooperation project, the Norwegian side would like to face the fact that not the population of these areas, whether they are indigenous or non-residents, is also becoming those who over the years are hanging after all, everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e748	We live in the midst of the technological revolution. New technologies are becoming an increasingly important part of everyday life for us living in this country, and we are constantly getting new supplies. We Nordics are among the most advanced in the world to use this technology, whether it concerns the Internet, e-commerce, e-mail, online banking, mobile telephony or SMS services. It is that more and more of the instruments we surround us with contain computers, whether it is the camera, the mobile phone or other objects that are a regular part of our everyday life. We've become good at getting used to the new technology. I think sometimes I forget how fast we get used to the new possibilities, and that we may still get away with wondering how we could do without. To put this in perspective, it might be nice to remind you that it is only ten years since we who are staggering representatives, got access to mobile phone, home PC and fax through our job, and I think most people are wondering how we could do without before. When it comes to broadband, we have also experienced a tiring development. I think there are a few areas where we are sitting on the Stortinget, that the figures change while a case is being dealt with in a committee, as has been the case with this case. That's why I have to say that I'm reacting a little bit when I hear the misery description that I think we've seen today. Norway has all the potential to be world-leading when it comes to using broadband, and in my view we should have an ambition to do it. New technologies and broadband access provide unaltered opportunities. A high-cost country that Norway is forced to be the best when it comes to technology, and we're already far ahead. As said, many of us use this technology every day, and the Norwegian society has become totally dependent on new technology. This gives us many possibilities, but also challenges. What matters to us in the Working Party is that this technology does not lead to new class divisions, for example. between those who master the new technology and those who don't, or between parts of the country that have access to this technology, and parts of the country that don't. It is therefore important that the school actively invests in training in new technologies, and that this becomes an integral part of teaching. It is a goal of the Workers' Party that there should not be a parent's wallet, or each cage, which should be decisive for the provision of education, and that of course also applies to the use of broadband. Broadband may reduce geographical distances, but it is of course important for everyone to be able to benefit from broadband. In my view, that's what the Storting today says, simply that everyone will have access to it in a few years. Perhaps it is that political action is measured in how much money you are willing to spend on an area. After a few years on Stortinget, I have to say that I have become skeptical of big business messages, because there seems to be a tendency that there will be a race between the different political parties about who can advance the most possible money in an area. And if we were to be completely honest, if we had gone through the last ten years' big messages and put all the ambitions on top of each other, we'd probably have to use at least two government budgets this year to follow them up. That's why I think it's more important to be concrete and realistic than to have a lot of good views. In my view, it seems that the minority has shown a need to show the power of action by almost completing a blank authorisation according to the ‘think on a number’ principle. I'd like to remind you that the world champion in height isn't going to be able to figure out who's going to be able to add the list the tallest, but actually based on who's going to be able to get over the list. What has now happened is that the Labour Party has helped the Government set up quite clear goals. The government must return to Storting every year with a description of the situation. In view of this, the Storting can of course do what is necessary in the context of the follow-up to the budgetary procedure, as is common in other areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e769	Broadband is important for the competitiveness and innovation of industry. It is important to streamline and modernise the public sector and to increase the opportunities for individuals to participate in society. But broadband doesn't have a value in itself. If we are to benefit from broadband, it also requires good services and applications. Together with the competence to use the technology and services, we can also reap the benefits of broadband investment both in the private and public sectors. As demonstrated in the broadband notification, a large market-based expansion of broadband in Norway has occurred in recent years. In the course of the committee's proceedings, I have sent an updated data base for the notification. The new figures show strong developments in the broadband market. As of March 2004, 77 pst. by Norwegian households have at least one broadband connection offer. There's an increase of 13 percentage points compared to May last year. In May 2003, there were more than 200 municipalities without broadband coverage. Now there are 63 municipalities. The last number I got in hand before I left the department today was that during 2005 no municipalities will be without broadband coverage. The number of households with actual broadband connections has increased from about 16 pst. in August 2003 until now over 20 pst. In the same period, the proportion of enterprises associated with broadband has increased from 15 pst. until 22 pst. By the turn of the year, there were 164 broadband operators in Norway compared to approx. 50 in the autumn of 2001. It shows a wide variety, where different concepts and technologies are tested against each other. In other words, it is a very high level of activity in the broadband market. I am sure that this positive development will continue. Over the next year, the industry tells us that 90 pst. households will be able to connect to broadband. There is no reason to believe that the market is stopping. Eleven days ago, I attended a Ministerial Conference on Broadband in Budapest. It was EU ministers plus the ministers of the candidate countries. The United Kingdom’s representative at the Ministerial Conference, Andrew Pinder, who had previously been concerned about State intervention, was now a strong opponent of state intervention in the broadband market. In Budapest, Pinder stated that the market is able to solve the development tasks also in sparsely populated areas, and considered that State intervention would do more harm than benefit. I am convinced that the technology-neutral and market-based policy on which the Co-operation Government has based and to which the Stortinget has previously agreed, on a proposal from the Stoltenberg Government, was and is correct. Cooperation between municipalities and the state to be demanding broadband demanders is also an important part of this policy. Unlike most other OECD countries, Sweden has opted for a development strategy where large public funds have been made available by the State. Despite this, Sweden does not have much better broadband coverage than Norway. My impression is that the strong public responsibility focus in Sweden has led actors to sit on the fence and wait for public support. Our strategy has contributed to a strong growth in broadband supply and demand. The Progress Party, SV and the Central Party's proposal to spend billions on state investment in broadband will therefore not only be enormously expensive, I think it could actually be inhibiting. For me, it will also be a little easier to propose to grant NOK 3 billion in the 2005 and 2006 budgets. It will be exciting to see if the lots can fit into the budget for the harvest. Our choice of strategy contributes to the formal bubble of diversity and initiatives in broadband across the country. This year, the Høkom scheme has been strengthened by the establishment of the Høkom district sub-programme, which is intended to stimulate the spread and application of the Høkom district. A recent evaluation concludes that Høkom has led to new and improved services for patients, students, businesses and the public. Projects have done well in relation to the participants’ stated needs and have triggered large additional funding from other sources. The report concludes that it is worth more than 350 million. SEK to Høkom divided into six years has been a socially profitable investment. Although we have a lot of competition on the access networks, with many providers, the situation is different for telecom transport networks. Today, there are mainly two actors offering transmission capacity over greater distances. The main prerequisite for the continued development of the broadband market is to facilitate competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e799	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e802	The goal is broadband to anyone who wants it, before 2007. The majority, the Labour Party and the Government Party, ask the Government to increase the permissions of Høkom, to grant money to support the infrastructure where market-driven development alone is not possible, to resolve the issue of an own fund in order to increase the rate of development and to assess coordination – i.e. market plus support and incentives. The council says it's going pretty well. Yes, we've come a long way in Norway, but it's going to be even better with more tools in the toolbox. Is that what the Council of State agreed on?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e807	It's always important to have tools in the toolbox, but the most important thing is not to have tools, but to have tools that fit. I discovered that when I inherited a tool kit from an uncle in America, where the thumb screws did not fit in Norway. The most important thing is that this market works, that we have that competition. Earlier in the debate, there has been talk of raising public investment in order to raise investment in this area at all. In order to compare with the figures drawn up in relation to road investments, which in total amount to DKK 12 billion, including operations, far exceeds what is invested in total in telecoms and broadband. Billions of money are invested every day, I kept saying, in Norway for prevalence. Therefore, it is so much more important that the tool called competition is an element of this. We also want to use BaneTele in this context. The main purpose of designing the company is to get a new, active player who can contribute to the functioning of that competition in the broadband and telecommunications markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e816	There's a lot of tension about how to develop BaneTele. Here a unanimous committee has laid strong leadership for the proposition to come to Stortinget. It shall be a nationwide and fully-fledged competitor of Telenor. You have to have the right to a comprehensive national network structure, and you have to get a proposition. I have three questions for the Council of State. When can we assume that the proposition is coming? Will the Government make priorities between the stakeholders? There's been a lead towards the Broadband Alliance – what does that mean? And third, what role should the state play in the new BaneTele?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e823	The representative Hedstrøm used the opportunity to ask three questions. Only when the proposition comes. It comes when time is ripe and time is right. Two: Will the Government make a priority? Yes, of course. When we promote a proposition, we will give priority to what is necessary in order for the Storting to take a decision on what the Storting should decide. Question three: What role should the State play? It's going to be shown by the proposition. I have initially said that in terms of ownership in BaneTele, I am open to all solutions. What's most important to me is that we take care of the infrastructure managed by BaneTele, which is partly owned by the Railway Agency, and that we get a competitor in the market on that motorway so that, through that competition, we can contribute to both a faster expansion and more favourable prices for the consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e834	Governments have got through a lot of what he wanted in Stortinget today. My question to the Council of State is this: When the Council of State writes Christmas cards to me in December 2007, will it be on the Christmas card that all households in Norway have received a fully-fledged broadband offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e841	I read the question as that pessimism has widened in what is the government option, namely, SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party, by asking whether the Council of State in its 2007 Christmas card will explain how far it has come with broadband development. It will be with the greatest pleasure that I write it the card to the then who hopefully is a staging representative with the number that Ryan has per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e847	The President will note that it is well done to read questions that are presented orally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e850	There was perhaps a mixture of pessimism and optimism in Inge Ryan's line. In any case, he expected to be re-elected in the next period, but unfortunately he also expected us to work with the same government council in 2007. It has been said that everyone should be offered broadband by the end of 2007. The majority agree with the position we are discussing today. At the same time, the Minister for Economic Affairs has used his intervention here to stress quite emphatically that State involvement needs to be greatly reduced. Not only that, he has said that there is a warning against state interference in the development of broadband. What I could imagine challenging the Council of States was to get him to say a few words about what means it is necessary to use to achieve the goal set by the majority. I believe that the Labour Party believes that there is something more to it than what has been laid down so far by the bet. What tools must be used to achieve that objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e859	That I have warned against spending NOK 3 billion, I am not hiding, and especially after that post that Ryan had, where he said he was closest after recording from ICT Norway and Mr. Hoff had suggested such a number, but it might as well be NOK 2 billion or NOK 4 billion. I think it's pretty important that a focus is on what, at my discretion, is at least as important as the demand for connections, which is what's on the content of this web. It's clear that we can stimulate public development in a number of ways. One of course is to establish a state's broadband network and roll out cable for a few billions a year, but I think it's going to be very difficult to imagine that one should really do. The important thing is, I think, simply to continue where we are, by stimulating demand by using appropriations over Høkom at Høkom district. We're going to have to assess in the budget for the harvest what amounts we have to put in there, given the development that has been in the meantime. I have to remind you that the reports from every six months now show that broadband coverage is growing dramatically, and it is increasing much faster in us than in our brothers. I must remind you, as not least the representative of Enoxen is fully aware, that we have a landscape in this country that is even more challenging than probably any other country in the Western world in terms of expanding. But we're on a very good path.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e868	I thought the government would thank the Labour Party for helping him with some tools, as he has received so many comments that he has little tools in the toolbox. I think the tool in this setting is very well adapted. A small follow-up question: Does the Council of State think it is a challenge to get money for investment – more than $12 billion, said the Council of State – to reach much longer, literally? Instead of having a number of parallel broadband in central lines, a twisted investment could cover a large part of the country with the same money. So a follow-up question about BaneTele. After all, this company has been in Stortinget for many years in different contexts, and the Stortinget has previously said that it should not be sold without one coming back to Stortinget. It's repeated now. It'll come as it is. I would like to hear a little bit more about the visions that the Council of State has for BaneTele, when he says "when time is ripe". We can't risk waiting three more years, as we've done until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e877	Then the council has the opportunity to thank and bow.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e880	I was aware that there were five lines, and that the Workers' Party, by virtue of its provisional size, has two. Therefore, this gives me an excellent opportunity to say that I am of course very pleased that the Workers' Party has formulated itself as they have done, in the setting, and is on what was actually established by the then Minister of Economic Affairs Grete Knudsen in the Stoltenberg government, and about which the Stortinget ended up wide. I think it's the only dangerous way to achieve our goals without throwing away billions of dollars. So I don't believe in a fund that's going to spend $7 million in a two-year period. kr per. day to roll out broadband. In the case of BaneTele, it is good to hear that the Workers' Party is impatient to get such a privatisation case to the Stortinget. I shall, of course, contribute to that. Let me say it this way, without pre-empting anything: I think the Grandfather's Control Committee is going to deal with that matter and that company in advance. I want some of these things done before we possibly go out and finally present what we're going to sell.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e887	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e892	At the bottom of the debate, I will draw up some points that will become important in the follow-up to the broadband communication, based on the decisions that will be taken here today, and that will oblige the Government. It is a unanimous committee that will increase the broadband target to include all residents in the country. It's obvious. The rate of expansion shall be increased in order to achieve that objective in 2007. It's equally clear. The Government shall also address the issue of a separate fund in order to increase the rate of expansion, and an assessment of the coordination of broadband deployment shall be submitted. In the context of the proposal that will be adopted, it is also important to find solutions to the coordination problem. It is also important that decisions are followed up with investigations with sufficient weight and momentum. I hope that there will be an open process that will result in concrete proposals next year's budget, as it is in the proposals, and that will oblige the Government. The studies should provide answers to what is needed to provide broadband for pig-grown and a Norwegian broadband fund model based on the experience from other countries, not only from Sweden, which has been promoted here, but from Canada and also the EU, into which the party of the Council of State would like to enter. There are many countries that are now able to expand broadband through the Structural Funds in the EU. It is also appropriate to allow independent professional expertise to define what is broadband, and not to allow this issue to be influenced by suppliers, who naturally prefer their own solutions. The government acknowledges in the Communication that a market-based expansion alone will not provide an adequate broadband offer across the country. I also think the Council of State should pay attention to that sentence in the further work. This is the reality in both pig-grown and central struts. In Oslo, as I mentioned earlier, I have given an example of seven different fibre cables in the Grorud valley, but surprisingly few have broadband in such a popular area. It's because there's no fiber loss. In Stockholm, this works brilliantly. So here we have a lot to learn. The Storting has laid strong leadership for BaneTele's future. It is important that this company does not become a regionalised thing, but that the government ensures the company a ownership and capital structure that enables it to deliver competitive end-to-end solutions throughout the country. Neither eco-law nor competition law has instruments to ensure broadband access to all or to impose infrastructure development according to specific plans and criteria. For example, as long as Telenor chooses to price the distance components of leased lines as they do, no 2 Mbit/s in leased lines in the Telenor price list will be applicable to most broadband customers. It'll be too expensive. The offer will only be a showbread. That is why it is now important to build up BaneTele, so that we get real competition on a national basis in the Norwegian broadband market. The Progress Party is looking forward to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e905	The President is a little uncertain about what a 'green' is, but assumes that it is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e908	Distance has always been a significant obstacle to development in District Norway. Distance takes time, and distance costs, through the need for transport. The development of the new information and communication technology provides an opportunity to overcome important elements of this delay. In the context of an international network, those living on the outskirts also have access to a wide range of services: the ability to trade in a large market and the ability to obtain information that was not previously available. But more importantly, work that had to be done in the past near the market or near the large population centres can now take place anywhere, even in the outermost regions. Enterprises that previously had to travel far to present their products now have access to a wide international market through the network. These options require four important policy responses — firstly, that the authorities will use this opportunity to outsource new tasks to the districts. The danger is that the opposite can happen, that the network is used to centralise tasks that were previously carried out in the districts. We must therefore have a political will to use information technology to outsource new tasks to the districts. Secondly, we need to be willing to use the new opportunities to provide better services. The development of telemedicine in cooperation between the University of Tromsø and e.g. Finland’s hospitals are an important example of this. Online training provision is another example. Thirdly, we need to stimulate the population to make use of the opportunities. Finnmark County Council's suggestion that the population should be taught to be so-called e-citizens is an example of this. Fourthly, and perhaps most importantly, we need to ensure that the people in the districts have access to the same services as the people in the central districts have. It assumes that districts are connected to high-speed, broadband networks. The Labour Party wants all households to be offered broadband connectivity by the end of 2007. Finnland is the only state without connection to national broadband networks. The Labour Party therefore wants the further national expansion of broadband to start in Finnmark. The potential to exploit the potential of the new technology requires closeness of the county to the national fibre network. Therefore, it is also important that the Workers' Party has helped to ensure that the Storting will now provide increased funding for the development of broadband provision in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e923	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 and 3 are treated together. [[See page 2130]] – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e952	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party, Right and Advance Party 15 minutes each, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes each and the Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e963	‘Millions of dollars, pounds, D-marks, gilts and crowns are invested in the search for oil and gas in the North Sea. New billions have been invested in drilling for the results, in the construction of platforms and pipelines. Large international oil companies, and governments in England and Norway, have willingly injected billions into the risky and risky activities at sea. The driving force has not been curiosity, but the conviction that the effort will bring enormous benefits. In order to bring the oil and gas up from the deep, and to guide it through pipelines to land – or to cargo bays in the fields – extensive work must be done under water. Often at great depths. This is the diver's task. They shall ensure the flow of natural resources. Profits or losses depend on them. The divers shall do the rough work.» This is a quote from the book "The Brutal Oil Adventure", and that is what today's case is about. St.meld. No 47 for 2002-2003 is the result of a year-long struggle and a debate on pioneering divers’ groundbreaking work and efforts in the North Sea from 1965. The question is whether these test subjects should receive an upliftment and an economic compensation for this groundbreaking work, a rough piece of work that has laid the groundwork for the nation's advent of fairytale welfare. St.meld. No 47 is based on the independent investigation commission established by the Stortinget in June 2000, which was appointed in March 2001, among others. with pressure from some representatives of the Storting and not least because of the efforts of the pioneers themselves. Now, of course, it is possible to ask whether this communication really follows the Commission's conclusion, because the Commission's conclusion was actually clear that the State had legal liability. A unanimous investigation commission, with team Judge Petter A. Lossius at the head, concluded that the State has legal liability. However, the government’s legislative department has concluded with the opposite, in view of the fact that the state does not have close enough links with the North Sea business. The Committee has not assessed the conclusion of the Legal Service. Let me still get some considerations around this. The state is the landowner. The state is a builder. The state is the legislator. The state is responsible for regulations. The state has oversight responsibilities. The state is a builder – first itself, then through its own companies. The State is the holder of the right under the Petroleum Act and, according to the Petroleum Act, the right holders have the same liability as the operators. The state already knew during the Ecofisc development in 1968 that diving was not under control, but continued to expand well knowing that divers might be injured or, in the worst cases, die. The State through the Oil Directorate, Statoil and Hydro conducted deep-sea diving tests through partial state-owned NUTEC and NUI. All attempts between 300 and 504 meters damaged the divers, according to Haukeland Hospital. In one of the 1980 oil directorate’s experiments, the divers were deliberately and without prior agreement applied to potential fatal pressure-related disease in order to test the physiological responses to sudden pressure drop. All the test divers got sick when, in two minutes, a drop in pressure was carried out that would normally have taken 10 hours. It was measured a very large gas bubble stream to the brain. At the same time, the depth limit was set at 400 metres, approved by the State Supervisory Body of the Oil Directorate. The state knew that one could not dive properly to great depths. Nevertheless, it distributed new oil blocks deeper than 300 metres — deep where the state knew that the divers would be seriously harmed if the oil companies exercised their right of extension. Only after 2002, after a new failed test dive to 250 metres, which damaged six out of eight divers, a maximum limit of 180 metres was set for proper depth. From this point of view, everyone can, on a self-contained basis, philosophise the conclusion of the legislative department on the lack of State affiliation. For me, it is no wonder that international media and other organisations are now taking a great interest in the individual matter that is taking place here in the United Kingdom today. But regardless of this, there has been a cross-political desire from the Committee to rely on an upliftment, compensation in relation to moral responsibility, and not to decide on the conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry versus the Legal Affairs Department – first of all, to find if possible a broad settlement, or as the case-rapporteur in this case, as a goal: a unanimous committee that could find a fair and satisfactory arrangement that could provide the divers and their families or leave a long-term struggle against the State. I am therefore disappointed that, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I could not unite the Committee in supporting the proposal as a minority, SV, the Central Party and the Advance Party, are behind the vote. There has been some criticism of the Committee's progress in this matter. As the rapporteur, I should like to acknowledge that progress has gone a little further than what may have been necessary, but it is largely due to the fact that the rapporteur and the Committee have dealt with this matter with care, simply in an attempt to reach a unanimous and fair settlement. It has not succeeded, even though there have been attempts at adjustments and compromises along the way. I assume that the parties behind the majority vote will present their proposals, so I will use the rest of my contribution to the minority's proposals as well as the proposals that the Committee supports. But some clarifications I'd like to ask my roommates to come along. Do you really think that a flat scheme is fair to those who have lost the most active years, that is, pioneers in the right sense of the word, the first and the youngest? Do you think it's fair that some groups are completely excluded? Have the conciliators considered this to be accurate and fair? What about those who have not been compensated for injury? Should this be coordinated in retrospect, so that some divers actually have to wait for compensation or, in the worst case, be required to repay some of the compensation? As far as minority proposals are concerned, there is no doubt whatsoever that this proposal is more fair, more precise and gives a much greater individual assessment. In fact, an individual treatment is what is crucial in this case. When a young person breaks down several decades of gainful work early in his career, the total loss is greater and, of course, greater than if this had happened later. This takes into account the proposals of the minority, which unfortunately the majority does not reflect on. The minority proposal would give greater compensation to the individual. The framework of this is somewhat difficult to establish, but probably there would have been a few hundred million more dollars. There's a difference between the minority and the majority. While the Workers' Party and the Conciliation Comrades first decided a tight frame, so to find out the model, the minority first concentrated on a fair model, then found cover for compensation. The minority have therefore found it appropriate and appropriate to cover this by using the Petroleum Insurance Fund, which unfortunately the majority still do not want to decide. I fear, therefore, that this will be a budgetary battle in the revised national budget. Cut in many other areas to finance compensation for the pioneer divers will be almost a tragedy. The minority proposal implies that the settlement of claims is to be treated as if the State were responsible for the losses incurred, cf. the Act on insurance against accidents at work. The compensation shall be determined on the basis of an individual treatment of an arbitral right consisting of three members. In addition to this, I must also be able to express some pleasure in the fact that the Committee, together, is behind some proposals that do not relate to direct economic compensation. These are appropriations for the Museum of Oil in Stavanger, which hopefully will result in an up-to-date exhibition, a bookshop and a diploma. This may not be so essential for many, but for the divers and their families and the survivors, I would assume that this is considered an uproar. The fact that the Committee is in addition behind proposals to continue support for the Contact Telephone Foundation and to find compensation for the North Sea divers The Alliance and individuals who have had extraordinary expenditure in the fight for a compensation scheme is also a recognition and recognition of the respect that the divers deserve and need in their daily activities and struggles. Here I will be allowed to ask the Council of State to find possible solutions to meet the North Sea diver Alliance and individuals in order to advance these compensations. Furthermore, it is of course important that the Committee really expresses a wish to review how diving activity is organised on Norwegian soil today. As regards Document No: 8:108, on an ‘retirement pension’, I find it difficult to address this issue thoroughly. This is a short comment in St.meld. No 47 as well, and I probably have to divide the considerations that are done here. But the Progress Party is proposing its own upswing of 1.2 million. kr, and also proposes that the Government assess specific plans for the pioneer divers. Otherwise, the proposal of the representative, Simonsen, is annexed to the Minutes. I guess the majority will repeat that this is a good settlement, a good settlement, the greatest settlement that the state has given. To that I would say, the majority here exhibits a state greed in relation to other groups that are in the same situation. That the rule of action, the exchange rate and the interest rate seem to also play a role here, is to me a paradox. I'm just mentioning that in the last few years, traffic crews have been allocated 8-12 million. NOK i in compensation. In addition, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Norwegian state recently committed Norwegian Hydro 15 million. a fine in the event of a fatal accident on a rig in the North Sea. And – perhaps on the side – I would also like to mention that Olav Fjell got 7 million. kr i parachute plus a pension agreement of ten million. Helge Midttune, Managing Director of the Norwegian Veritas, received $17 million. kr in parachutist. Konsernschef Miklos Konkoly-Thege, Norse Veritas, got 10 million. kr, etc. If the majority still insist that this is a good, rough and fair arrangement for the pioneer divers, I think they will meet themselves at the door in the long term. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, have been revised and distributed in the Chamber. I would recommend to the Workers' Party to join that proposal, because in fact there are many who have been exposed to accidents in other contexts falling between two chairs, which have neither been compensated nor compensated for their efforts in relation to the job that has been done. At the end of the day, I would like to put forward the proposals that the Progress Party is on its own, and the proposals that we are behind with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1011	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1014	This case is a particularly difficult one, which has taken a lot of work and not least a long time. It would have been desirable to have a broad political agreement in this matter, but unfortunately it has not developed that way. Nor was the case made easier by the fact that the Government had not, in fact, presented its conclusion and recommendation for a decision. There is no doubt that the pioneer divers did a great and pioneering work in the North Sea between 1965 and 1990. Nor is there any doubt that the extreme work impact of the North Sea divers has been exposed, and has been an important factor in the life situation of many of you today. In addition, it may seem that the diving legislation was unclear and that the supervision failed and was not a patent. The Committee does not take a position on whether the State has legal and legal liability, but these points nevertheless require that the State clearly assume a moral responsibility for a favourable compensation arrangement. That's why we think the pioneer divers are going to get the uplifting and compensation they're having. In order to avoid unnecessary red tape and long hours of treatment, it is important for the majority to establish a simple, standardised principle for a dealer with the divers. Similarly, it is important to establish an administration that makes it easy for you to get a quick and effective report. So to the compensation itself: the proposals of the majority will indicate that some divers with this scheme will be paid about 2.5 million. kr, graduated after disability or medical disability. The compensation scheme has a maximum framework of 40 times the basic amount of social security, which is DKK 570,000 higher than that applicable under the Act on Occupational Indemnity Insurance. In addition, a surcharge of NOK 200000, which is the maximum amount of legal compensation, shall be paid to all those who fulfil the conditions. The compensation should be completely tax-free and come to the top of previous payments from among others. Ministry of Social Affairs and Statoil ASA. The previous payment from these two has an upper financial framework of approximately NOK 950,000, so some divers will get about $3.5 million. kr net paid in compensation. If one then sees what this amount represents in a gross amount, i.e. before taxes and deductions for previous payments, yes, then probably the amount could be characterised as significant. The scheme shall cover divers who have suffered injury or disease after performing diving missions in the North Sea from 1965 to 1990. It shall also apply to the survivors. Many ask themselves if this is a good and generous compensation, and the same question asked the case spokesman. Yeah, I guess there'll always be a different view of it. The total figure is likely to be 400-500 million. kr. I would also like to point out that divers who were in employment before 1990 do not have the same rights as added after 1990 when it relates to the relationship to occupational injury compensation. Of course, this also applies to other occupational groups. If the insurance law had been mandatory even in the pioneer era, the amount of compensation would have been much lower than that agreed by the majority today. This is also a moment that needs to be weighed up against the handle well and rust specified. There have been many reactions. Some divers are negative and disappointed. I have listened to expressions such as ‘a disgraceful offer’ and that ‘the struggle will continue with renewed strength’. I can understand that, of course, because it depends on what the individual has of expectations. For the sake of balance, I would also like to add that I have also received very pleasant and positive reactions from divers. It'll probably always be like that. Even if the amount had been of a completely different size, it would probably have been perceived by some as poor and a betrayal of a profession that has meant so much to the country. I would like to remind you here that the Government says that the State did not have close enough connection with the DIC to be held responsible after the unregulated objective responsibility, and that it is therefore doubtful whether the State has a responsibility with a background in the responsibility for employers. I also want to add that this question is not discussed by the Commission either. The scheme shall be administered by a name of five persons, the leader of which shall be a lawyer and have relevant background as a judge or equivalent. The Committee believes that it is enough that the medical examination from Haukeland Hospital shows that it is likely that the health damage is related to diving. This means that the denominator should carry out his work in an easy way – in other words, that the doubt should benefit the divers. This is an important principle for me to go under. Many divers have problems mastering everyday life. These may include mental and social problems, economic problems or a combination of them. Last year, the Stortinget ran 1.5 million. kr to the Foundation Contact telephone for the Pioneer Divers. This foundation has extensive experience in such work. The Committee believes that this promise must continue, and at least until 2007. It is now important to gather all the history associated with the pioneer days. The efforts of the pioneer divers must be made through an exhibition that documents and maintains the efforts of the pioneer divers. The same applies to the production of a historical message in the form of a book, as the case-speaker had to say. The Norwegian Oil Museum in Stavanger has worked in many ways with the history of North Sea diving. The Committee will now use up to 10 million. kr for this purpose, which shall also include the preparation of a diploma for the pioneer divers as a valuable reminder of their efforts for the nation. Finally, it is important for me to stress that no one should feel afraid that this compensation should not be financed. Although the State will invite oil and diving companies to participate in financing the compensation scheme and collective recognition with the State, a joint committee says that compensation should be granted independently of the operator’s willingness to accept such an invitation. The majority also propose that the Government return with proposals for funding in the context of the revised 2004 national budget. The same is true of the question of financial compensation for documented expenditure on the North Sea Diving Alliance and individuals who have contributed to the compensation and honoring of their pioneer divers. Finally, I would like to begin by congratulating the new Council of State on her graduation, but I also have a challenge for him in line with the case-speaker, and that is the following problem: As I said earlier, we know that many pioneers are struggling acutely with major economic problems. I have become aware that some are in front of ongoing creditors, notices of car break-off, power cut-off and telephone etc. The Social Ministry’s scheme, established in 2000, can be used as a starting point for a rapid interim payment, if it so wishes. Here you will operate on well-known pioneer dippers who received a payout at that time. And it's actually the same people it's about today. The cost-reimbursement component of NOK 200000 should be unproblematic to immediately pay to those who have an acute financial problem. Furthermore, today's decision to deposit should be good enough evidence to stop aggressive creditors, and then I remind you that it also applies to state creditors. I would ask the Council of State to take this challenge seriously and answer me in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1052	I am pleased that the Storting today can take a very long step towards correcting much of the injustice committed against some of the pioneers in the development of the oil adventure in the North Sea. It is a majority of the municipal committee that recommends today to the Storting that an upliftment and financial compensation be given to the pioneer divers, who did an entirely groundbreaking work in the North Sea from 1965 to 1990. That's what we have on the table today is about. There is a solution that means that a raise of NOK 200000 is given to the pioneer divers and their survivors, and a compensation that will vary between 35 G and 40 G, depending on disability. It means an upliftment and compensation in this round of up to 2.5 million. kr. We know that many of the divers in the past, with effect from 1 July 2000, have also received a special compensation from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health of up to NOK 200,000. Furthermore, from November 2001, Statoil ASA has implemented a financial support scheme for persons with reduced working and acquiring capacity after working as a North Sea diver in the period 1965 to 1990, with a maximum payment of DKK 750000. In addition, some of the divers have also received a company-funded compensation scheme for loss of health certificate for divers, equivalent to NOK 500000. So, with the majority's proposal, these payments are not deducted, so that several divers now come up with payments of nearly $4 million. kr. Since this in addition, payments are exempt from taxation, I believe that the compensation system now under consideration must be said to be quite straightforward. It may be that some of the North Sea divers have had expectations of completely different amounts. Some comments in the press might suggest that. I have also received comments from a number of former North Sea divers who express satisfaction with the upliftment and compensation that will now be paid. It is important to stress that the majority of the municipal committee emphasises that the economic settlement of the pioneer divers is to be done in the simplest possible way, quickly and efficiently and in the best interests of the divers. The intention is simply that this should be a worthy final settlement, without new years of anticipation. So the starting point is that the majority's attitude is based on principles that give a generous compensation to the individual, where there is no legal responsibility for the state. In its report, the Committee of Inquiry concluded that, in its opinion, there is a great deal to be said about the state’s legal responsibility. The Commission connects this to what it calls an unregulated objective responsibility. The Ministry’s legal department has thoroughly addressed this issue and disagrees with the Commission. Like the Commission, the Legal Service states that any claims against the State must be specifically assessed for each dive, since the assessments relating to the basis of liability, causality, financial loss and limitation may vary on a case-by-case basis. The overall assessment of the legislative department is therefore that the State does not have a strong enough link with the activity to be entrusted with legal responsibility. Particular attention is paid here to the fact that the State is not the owner or holder of the activities that cause the damage and that the injured party has other possible responsibilities to deal with. Such responsibilities are also best in line with the rules applicable to the petroleum sector, which require the petroleum activity to be carried out for the account and risk of the rightholder. Nevertheless, the Government believes that based on an overall assessment, the government should take responsibility for the recognition and upliftment they deserve from the pioneers. That is why it is proposed to establish a compensation scheme, combined with collective recognition of the pioneer divers, and with assistance in their daily life. The majority of the municipal committee also agrees with the Government in that view and now considers a compensation mechanism to be a better solution than to provide further investigations on legal liability for some actors on the continental shelf to individual divers. It is also worth noting that the hearing opinions have not at all been unambiguous as to the extent to which financial compensation is to be granted to the pioneer divers. Non-discrimination in relation to other groups also leads to the extent of compensation. The Municipal Committee is unanimous in saying that there is no doubt that a not insignificant part of the pioneer divers are struggling with medical and mental sensitivities as a result of the pioneering dive. That is the basis on which the Committee considers it appropriate to make proposals which give favourable compensation schemes that not only make a financial contribution but also give pioneers the uplift they deserve. Therefore, the Committee does not consider the existence of legal liability and proposes compensation independently. The majority of the municipal committee, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Right Party and the Christian People’s Party also note that there is a broad consensus that the settlement of the pioneers’ dives should be made as simple as possible, fast and effective, for the benefit of the pioneers’ divers. The majority therefore believe that it is necessary to establish simple principles for the settlement and administration of divers. The scheme shall enter into force on 1 July 2004 following the proposal, and applications must have been submitted before 1 July 2006. I also find reason to point out that the municipal committee unanimously points out that today's organisation of diving activity is far from satisfactory. Therefore, it is important to review how diving activity operates on a Norwegian base today. Appreciative factors described by the Review Commission were in the pioneer period have also occurred since then. Therefore, these conditions need to be reviewed and corrected. That is why there is a unanimous recommendation behind the proposal that the Government return to Stortinget with a review of how diving activity is organised on a Norwegian base today. Follow-up and guidance services are also important, which is the reason for a unanimous proposal to continue the support to the Pioneer Divers Contact Phone until one year after the deadline for claiming financial compensation has expired. The desire to document the groundbreaking efforts of the pioneers in the North Sea for the rest of the time lies behind the unanimous recommendation of the Stortinget today to decide that up to 10 million will be granted. kr to Norsk Oil Museum in Stavanger. The museum is responsible for the coordination, design and implementation of a number of actions. These include, inter alia: the establishment of a permanent or wandering exhibition that documents and maintains the efforts of the pioneer divers. Furthermore, a report shall be prepared in the form of a book documenting the efforts of the pioneer divers. A diploma shall also be produced as a valuable reminder of the honorable efforts of the pioneer divers for the country. It is a brief fact that over 30 years the Norwegian oil adventure has been very important for the Norwegian economy and has contributed to value creation, employment and industrial travel across large parts of the country. The pioneers in the North Sea are some of the very many who have contributed to this adventure. However, the role of pioneer divers is special. In my opinion, we mark this in a dignified and harsh way with the municipal committee's proposal for a decision here in the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1082	SV believes that the pioneers should be fully compensated for the losses they have suffered. Therefore, we believe that the main fronts of this case are between those who believe the state is responsible for the inhuman pressure on the pioneers during the work of the North Sea oil adventure and those who do not. If the State can be said to have an objective responsibility for the damage suffered by the divers, the matter is clear. Then each diver would be able to go to the Riksadvokat and say, "These are the economic losses I've suffered. The lawyer would nod and make sure to pay the crown for the money the pioneer diver could show that he had lost because the state that builds up, regulator and supervisor did not take responsibility for making sure that what happened on the pedestal was done in a proper way. Each one could stand in line, and each one would have his financial loss covered. If the state with open eyes sends people down to the depths that are harmful to health, with methods that are harmful to health, to earn billions, shall not those who lost their health, and left behind those who lost their lives, cover the loss they have suffered? Of course they should. In the same way that a liability insurance company is required to cover the full costs when someone is in a wheelchair and is in a wheelchair for the rest of his life, the State shall cover the financial losses it has incurred to others. And that's what's going on. The Lossius Commission was crystal clear: «The Commission considers that the State and oil companies should be able to be held objectively liable for the damage suffered by the North Sea Divers.» Hogsnes said that the laws had to be interpreted for each dive. But the Storting doesn't interpret laws, so the courts do. The Storting makes laws and makes decisions. And that's what the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party think we should do here today. Instead of turning the question of whether the state has an objective responsibility for the losses suffered by the pioneers into a court case, we want the Stortinget to cut through once and for all, and provide the pioneers with the compensation they are entitled to. We think it's right and fair, and that it's unworthy and inconvenient to leave to the individual divers to go to the courts to get compensation that's better than the compensation that the majority of people in this room will give to the divers. In addition to the fact that the majority opts for the principle principle that we in the minority have to provide full financial compensation as if the state had an objective responsibility, their own system seems completely out of direction and internal coherence. They refer to the Act on Occupational Insurance Insurance, but where the Professional Indemnity Act covers a small amount of loss and future loss in addition to 30 G, takes the majority scheme up to 40 G, and thus makes no difference as to how long people have been injured, and the extent of the financial loss people have suffered is based on the income and disability of people when the amounts for future indemnities are determined, the majority takes on the sole basis of disability and introduces a new principle, without justification for the Indemnity Act shortening the amount of age over 46 years, the majority's proposal has no curtailment, and thus does not distinguish between old and young, and the time remaining in working life compensation for minor losses is usually taxed, the majority has chosen to make the amount tax-free; The majority have simply sat down and suggested a compensation scheme that costs the sum of money the batches find they can afford on the individual budgets of each party. It's a little successful way to do work. The system is unfair, not individually adapted, is not based on known principles and cannot therefore defend itself in principle in any way. That is why the proposal should never be adopted. That is why, in the minority, we are promoting an alternative proposal, which is in principle, and which it is possible to explain and thus defend. The working party, which has a "worker" in its name to pretend that they are always on the side of the workers, chooses in this matter instead of toesing its hands with the Government, and it disappoints me most. If the Workers' Party had chosen to run on the side of the injured workers, this matter would have another outcome. Instead, they do not fully agree to the lack of willingness of former workers' party governments to settle the matter, and therefore postpones once again setting a worthy end line for this matter. Equally disappointing and embarrassing is the government's handling of the matter. When the government council Norman made the big-time announcement without making any suggestions on how to design the pioneer divers' replacement and upliftment, he justified this with the desire for a wide-ranging settlement in Stortinget. However, we have not seen the promise in those words since then. From the beginning until the municipal committee completed the suspension, neither the Government nor the government parties made a single real contribution to reaching a broad agreement that included all the parties in the committee. On the contrary, calculations and justifications for the numbering material have been difficult to recover before late in the process, as committee members made a hard effort. The Central Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party's proposal for a replacement arrangement was calculated to cost about NOK 1 billion. However, it lasted and ran before it was found that these were calculations before tax had been deducted. How much the tax would be, according to the government, it was not possible to give an estimate. Overall, this has shown me a government that has pushed from start to finish from full responsibility to give the divers a settlement at all. The Lossius Commission gave the Government an opportunity to get past past old sins and cut through in a case that has lain like a workshop on the history of Norway's fantastic oil wealth. An offensive government had easily been given a majority for a decent compensation scheme as a crown for crowns, in line with ordinary replacement rights, had given the divers the money they have lost that the government was helping to use them for the extreme stress that destroyed the health of many of them. That chance didn't take hold of the government, and that's why I understand that Victor D. Norman didn't feel any special need to be here today. Finally, we are asking for the minority's proposal No. 1, if a decent compensation scheme is set up against the VI of the adjustment. And since our proposal, unless a miracle happens, is going to fall, we will subsidiaryly vote in favour of VIII in the vote, about an uplift of NOK 200,000 to the pioneer divers and left behind. This money should be disbursed as quickly as possible, and the state must ensure that public creditors place their claims on the pioneer divers until payments have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1130	A manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1137	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is given the floor for a very brief clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1140	This is a serious matter. And I'm assuming that there's a broad desire for a worthy and factual debate. I note that, like the rapporteur on the matter, the representative suggests that the majority of Storting has set budgetary limits at the basis of how much is to be allocated. It's never been a theme. I record that the Socialist Left Party has, for its part, chosen to finance it outside the budget. It gets SV to have as its choice, but please do not add to the majority of considerations other than those of the majority, namely a good, liberal and fair compensation system. So I hope that the rest of the debate can be conducted in a tidy manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1148	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was drawn up on the list of speakers later and has full opportunity to come back to his point of view. In addition, there is no provision for a replacement of lines in relation to the general posts, except after the posts of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1151	The North Sea divers' case should have been a sign a long time ago. They've been fighting to be heard for decades. They didn't get the attention and treatment they should have. I hope that this case can be a valuable point for most people. I'm a coastal woman, and I've seen what the oil adventure has to say on- and off-shore. I know the great effort of industry and individuals to raise themselves after the hair, make it impossible and get oil out of the North Sea. It's costing a lot of money. Loss of health cannot be replaced. Many pioneer divers suffered significant health damage from diving in deep and cold water, as it is in the North Sea. The majority of those who took on their duties were healthy, young men with a particularly good condition. So it was good health that was lost. So who's in charge? That's what they learned about. The diving company from that time on there does not exist. The investigation commission concluded that the State has legal responsibility. The law department, which we have to assume has the best legal competence in the country, says that the state has no legal responsibility. In the municipal committee we do not take a position on this, but say that the state has a moral responsibility. So we've added a very special system of compensation for the pioneers who go far beyond what they've done before. The North Sea dikes consume a special handling. Could be 2.5 million. kr compensate for ruined health, for ruined lives, for broken families? Of course not. But this is the greatest compensation the state has ever given, and there is upliftment in the fact that no one is ever satisfied with any more from the Storting. Those who have been most deferred have also received up to 1.4 million. kr before. So it's also reasonable in a few months that those that are damaged, but are less than 50 pst. I'm going to get 2 million. kr, while those that are 100 pst. undressed, gets 2.5 million. kr. The last of them have had something before, and everyone has lost their health. Pioneer divers are not comparable to any other group. We recognize that they have made an honorable effort for Norway. We recognize that without them, no oil adventure. We recognize that they have done a job at the limit of the impossible. And they get more than victims of other North Sea tragedy. At the same time, it is impossible for a Parliament to allow such compensation without detracting from what other deferred groups are willing to do. As a populace, you have to look at the wholeness and put things in perspective. There has been an outrage in Norway, with terrible consequences for individuals, where the state has been more or less responsible — many fates, but actually small compensations. 2.5 million. kr is tax-free in this context monthly and more than the others have been in the vicinity of. But I would like to stress, the pioneer divers today have a compensation and an upliftment, not a substitute for a lost life. We've made the system simple. This should and can therefore be paid quickly after 1 July of this year. I agree with the Labour Party and Opbebøen Hansen that the NOK 200 000 set aside for uplifting should be payable immediately. There's a lot of economic hardship, and then cash helps. An important part of this case is that the history of the North Sea divers is now being preserved in the future both at the book that is mentioned, and at any time to tell the unspeakable and true story of what happened from 1965 in the North Sea, and at the permanent exhibition that shows the same. The aftertaste shall know that the oil adventure costs some expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1170	2.5 million. kr is a lot of money. That's the maximum amount of multiple today that compensates for the efforts of the first North Sea divers. I've been meeting people for the last week who wonder why the Storting can't gather about a compensation that seemed so out of place. My answer is simple. I think it is right in such a special case to take as a starting point the principle of full compensation for the injured and the survivors according to the same schedule as in the compensation law. I'm sorry that the committee couldn't agree on a common solution. However, the centre party finds the right to maintain a system of individual assessment. We believe that there is a big difference in whether an injury occurred, for example. in the third or in the 15th year of a professional career. For us, it's also important to have a system that the divers themselves accept. The Committee was already hearing in the fall presenting a model for a replacement decision, the individual assessment of which has been finalised. Professor Henning Jakhelln presented a proposal in which a voting right composed of a representative from the state and a representative from the North Sea Divers Alliance and a leader with a jurisdictional jurisdictional jurisdictional jurisdiction decided on the replacement of the individual. The proposal of the Party of Progress, SV and the Central Party are reunited in the setting, creating such a system, with criteria that make it quite different from the multi-digital proposal in a way that excites the characteristics of a voice and fairly. A counter-representation has been that it seemed bureaucratic and complicated with a voting right that assesses each individual. I believe Jakhelln when he claims that it is the assessment of the first person who takes time. Then a template will be created that will form the basis for the rest. There is also every reason to remember that the total number of people is overwhelming. The Labour Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have unfortunately been so concerned with simplification that they have chosen to create a general system, which is most unusual in the event of occupational injury. There are inadequate calculations of what the two different options will involve in terms of costs. In many cases, there is an extensive exchange of letters between the Ministry and the Committee on Exploration and Calculation of Costs. It's not like that in this case. It has to do with a desire to primarily evaluate the principle, but it will only later reveal the number of people who are finally reporting, and the amount that each person receives. The Progress Party, SV and the Centre Party have found it right to state that the scheme is to be financed by the Petroleum Insurance Fund. We're assuming that our plan is at least 200 million. kr more to your peers than the bulk wants. It is high time that those who were involved and provided the basis for Norwegian oil business were given a maximum fortification and replacement. There's every reason to give honor to the North Sea diver Alliance, who has stood year after year to obtain evidence, with a desire for fair treatment. The centre part is also involved and represents a broad multiplicity for a raise of NOK 200000 in addition to the compensation otherwise. A comprehensive committee is ready to be set up by means of the Foundation Contact telephone for Pioneer Divers, so that they can outsource guidance and advice in 2007. on economic issues. This foundation has already gained experience and competence and is an example of how complicated everyday life is for many of the individuals who will always be in a special way linked to the emergence of Norwegian oil companies. I'm otherwise very satisfied that a collecting committee intended up to 10 million. kr to the Museum of Oil in Stavanger for a permanent exhibition on the Pioneer Diving. It will help to ensure that this professional group and the efforts it represents become a necessary, legitimate and visible part of our close history. The treatment of this matter has shown that there are other survivors who dot between two chairs in connection with the oil business. I hope that we can have multiples in this Chamber today for minority proposal No. 2, which assumes compensation for the survivors following the Deep Sea Driller and any others. Then there's a question of rapid progress. Yeah, so the county strike office in Rogaland has lists from the previous round. We've got a new state council. It is important for a new Council of State to show power of action, now he has the possibility to do so. I look forward to him confirming in his post that the follow-up should proceed quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1196	The left is pleased that today’s decision provides a basis for good economic treatment in relation to the situation of pioneers today. It is quite obvious that they have made an effort and have received results from their efforts that it is right to provide a good compensation for. After all, we have to assume that it is not possible to automatically assume that, in relation to this group and these persons, it would be an objective responsibility for the state, if this were to be the subject of a purely judicial settlement through the courts. In that perspective, compensation in the magnitude of this is, after all, a relatively rough system. This does not mean that there is any reason to envy those who get compensation, a single penny of what they get, but at the same time there is a certain recognition that the alternative could have been easy to get nothing at all. The efforts of pioneers in the North Sea have been crucial for the economic adventure of the North Sea oil industry. On this basis, it is true that the size of this population provides a special treatment for this group. On the basis of the economic results obtained from the North Sea, it is also understandable that comparisons are made with parachutes, etc. in the same environment, and in that perspective, it is also understandable that the amount may not work that high. But what's going to be the situation, after all, is that the things you compare with are actually unreasonable quantities. It's actually these parachutes that are then unreasonable, and we can't easily go to the situation that we're comparing in a way that just means we're being pulled up and up. I notice in the committee setting that a minority ‘It is appropriate to point out that a compensation scheme for the North Sea divers is not to create precedents in relation to other groups of society that deserve to be reviled and replaced by the State. These members assume that one finds an arrangement in each case’. There is also something to say that there are many others who are more or less responsible because of the circumstances in which the state is responsible, after the same lines that you've been in here, after all, don't get amounts that are close to what the size here goes for. For my own part, it is close to me that I have been involved in research missions related to the municipality of Bergen on child home victims who have destroyed their childhood, and who for many people have not been given the opportunity to participate in a professional life either. There's the maximum rate of compensation, NOK 750,000. To make comparisons, there is also a relevant comparison to make, although I do not say that it should be used in all contexts. So the majority, to which the Left is going to join, goes in for standardisation. You can certainly reason about that, but I just want to mention that it's after all a way of dealing with a matter that makes it possible to get to goals faster than if you were to do this individually. By and large, this will at least lead to someone getting more than they would otherwise have. In the end, I just want to take up a few details that almost have the character of proofreading, but as I imagine may be a little bit important proofreading, where I ask that the closer design does not select the worst possible interpretation options. It says: «Retired persons are considered to be persons who fulfil the conditions»... «retirement pension or child pension from social security.» I think there should be a basis for "has filled the terms", in other words not that you fill the terms today, but that you have done it at some point. In the case of medical invalidity as a basis: I think maybe one should open up an opportunity to give something even in the case of medical disability under 15 pst., because medical disability is partly a rather difficult concept. So it should preferably put something there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1226	I guess I'm probably one of the few here, maybe the only one, who has a diving certificate. I have it anyway -- it's okay enough that it's a sports diving certificate, and it's been many, many years since I took it. So I can talk a little bit on behalf of the divers. We are dealing with this matter in Stortinget today. It is the pioneers who can be thanked for our consideration of the matter here in Stortinget. If they hadn't been on, we would never have dealt with it in the Storting. It's a mind-wake in itself. Diving is risky, very risky. I didn't fall for the temptation to be a work diver and a port in the North Sea, and I'm happy for that. Then I had also been one of those who would have been compensated. The Committee should have considered this: without the efforts of the pioneer divers, the nation of Norway had never had thousands of billions to adorn itself with. We have an oil fund that we can draw on when that time comes. Without their efforts, we could never have had the oil fund. Divers have promoted a claim for compensation for lost earnings. And it was just supposed to be missing! It is not a question of cheap substitutes, which have been promoted by this pulpit – a comparison has been drawn with cheap substitutes. But that's not what this is about! And I must honestly say that what is adopted is not in line with what the divers are asking for. The last word is not at all said in this case, I guarantee it. Without the efforts of the pioneers divers, the matter had not been dealt with in Stortinget. The last words will not be said even if the system is adopted. But I support the minority proposal, No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1239	The Pioneer Divers in the North Sea have done an important, socially useful work. In retrospect, many questions can be asked about how diving was carried out in the early days. A lot of evidence suggests that in the past you did not have sufficient knowledge of the stresses and stresses to which you were subjected, and their possible late effects. Therefore, during the early stages of the petroleum activity, diving may have resulted in sensitising of the divers. The review report also states that ‘a not insignificant part’ of the pioneer divers ‘wearing with’ such sensitivities. A unanimous municipal committee does not consider whether legal liability exists, but suggests compensation to the pioneers regardless of it. It was precisely on the basis of a recognition that society has a certain moral responsibility in relation to this profession that the Stortinget dealt with the issue of a special compensation scheme for the pioneers already in the spring of 2000. A large majority in the Stortinget, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left, then made a compensation of NOK 200,000. This is the level that Stortinget normally assumes as an upper limit when compensation is granted. It is therefore quite specific when Stortinget today decides a compensation of up to 2.5 million. kr. This is precisely because we want to give recognition to the important efforts of the pioneers divers. If a professional diver is today injured by his work, he will receive payment through professional indemnity insurance of up to 30 times the basic amount of the people's security. However, the law applies only to those who have had the status of employee since 1990. The pioneer divers therefore did not have such a scheme. Therefore, a main difference between the efforts of pioneers before 1990 and those of other divers after 1990, as well as in the North Sea as in other contexts, is that after 1990, occupational injury gives entitlement to the payment of compulsory professional indemnity insurance of up to 30 times the basic amount of popular indemnity. The size does not say today that we are going to apply the Professional Injury Insurance Act fully to the pioneer divers, but we have seen to what the compensation would be if they had had such a scheme before 1990. However, the size does not set the limit of 30 times the basic amount. We set the maximum amount to 40 times the basic amount, which is 570,000 kroner higher than the maximum limit for insurance against accidents at work. In addition, the uplift will be NOK 200 000. So the pioneer divers get a rough treatment. The Labour Party has just been concerned that we should ensure a fair, liberal and transparent compensation system. So with the amount of the uplift, some divers will be able to pay about 2.5 million. kr. There is significantly more to it than the other occupational injury suffers. It's an expression of the recognition that also lies in the compensation. The amount is tax-free, and it comes on top of previous payments, as well as from the Government of the Ministry of Social Affairs as from Statoil. That means some divers can get up to 3.5 million. kr. It has been important for the Workers' Party to design a simple and transparent system, which will provide rapid payments to divers without any necessary and delaying red tape. We have understood that it has been a strong wish in the first place also on the part of the divers. It also makes the system somewhat more general than it would have been if there was a more detailed test in each case. There is no doubt, however, that when the Stortinge creates a compensation scheme that goes far beyond what the Stortinge has done in other cases where compensation has been granted, and far beyond the other divers today would have been given if they were subjected to occupational injury, it is an expression of recognition of the efforts made by the pioneer divers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1260	Next speaker is State Council Morten Andreas Meyer. The President will take the opportunity to welcome Meyer to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1265	The size is currently dealing with a difficult case which has been going on for several years and which affects individuals and families in a difficult situation. I am pleased to note that there is agreement that a compensation scheme should be established for the pioneers in the North Sea. The efforts of divers in the petroleum activity on Norwegian continental shelf have been invaluable. There's no doubt about it. And it was pioneering time to the greatest extent – a new job for the nation. A whole new industry was established in a few years, a risky industry with significant challenges related to large seas and a difficult climate. There's reason to be proud of what we've got. That said, there is no doubt that knowledge of the petroleum industry, including diving, was limited in Norway. Knowledge was developed to some extent in the light of experience, and increasingly stricter requirements were imposed on the activities according to which new knowledge was acquired. Today, we have a well-developed regulatory framework and a good oversight system for the Norwegian continental shelf. The contribution of pioneers to the petroleum activity during the pioneering period should be rewarded. I am pleased that the Committee proposes to establish a simple compensation scheme with a quick settlement, for the benefit of the pioneers. I understand that the committee has made a strong effort to find a comprehensive solution that gives the divers the recognition they deserve. I also record the Committee's commitment to a rapid and predictable settlement of the pioneers' dives, based on the very recognition of moral and political responsibility, with the desire to base reasonableness on the scheme. I experience the proposal for a system for which the majority of the committee has agreed, which is good for those concerned, and at the same time responsible. I note that an overall committee agrees that compensation for divers is based on reasonable considerations and not on legal responsibility for the State. The Committee has also assessed the measurement of the compensation. I notice that the majority's proposals involve a measurement more in line with Norwegian than with American tradition. Traditionally, compensation measurement based on reasonableness, often expressed as a cheap substitute, has been moderate in Norway. In practice, this is reflected in the Storting’s own cheap substitute scheme, with a maximum initial payment of NOK 200000. The big message points out that previous payments to the pioneer divers amount to up to 1.4 million. kr. So this is going to be in addition to the payment that is now going to be made. If this amount is compared with claims payments in the case of personal injury, including insurance claims, it is likely that in such a context this may also be considered as a callable scheme. I guess we all agree that the contribution to value creation and the state's income cannot be decisive for how high a political and moral compensation should be. In this context, consideration must be given to other groups that have come into a difficult situation, without laying the groundwork for the creation of value or giving the State income similar to that in this case. It will be difficult to claim that they should have less compensation than those who have provided greater values to the state. In this case, the pioneer divers were offered compensation in 2000. All aspects of the pioneer diving have been examined since then, and there is now an additional compensation, based on reasonable considerations. I am also pleased that the Storting joins in the proposal for a collective recognition of the efforts of the pioneer divers. I take note of the Committee's proposals for various measures that can contribute to such collective recognition and will ensure that it is followed up. It is scheduled to enter into force on 1 July. Several pioneers today are in a difficult situation. I am aware that it could be difficult for these, even financially, until an application has been dealt with by the name of this scheme. I want to put a high pressure on establishing a denominator, so that the scheme becomes operational from the very beginning. The County Council of Norman put in place the emergency aid system for divers in a precarious and acute economic situation. In this context, 10 million have been allocated. kr. The immediate allocation was made transferable in the budgetary procedure, and the Government will, of course, use these funds in accordance with the assumptions. Once the setting has been adopted, I will consider whether and, where appropriate, how we can also take account of those who are in a particularly difficult situation until 1 July. I believe the Stortinget has sought to find an overall solution, for the benefit of the pioneer divers and the Norwegian community. It is the government’s wish that this should mark a final settlement by the state against the pioneers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1293	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1298	First of all, in deep respect for the legal competence of the representative of the Hoves: I fully agree with his interpretation when it comes to it with the survivors. I also assume the Council of State is that. So I want to say that this case has proved more difficult than she needed, because the government has not made a recommendation on the matter. And it's actually not the first time the government has come with stuff to the Storting without advice. As the Council of State is new, I will not blame him. But at least I ask that he take that signal back to the government that this is not how Storting can have it. Then I'm glad that the Council of State signed out when it's due to get a quick payment to those who wear the most economically, and who have the most difficult. But I'm overconfident that those who are in this situation are very concerned about what kind of time perspective we're talking about. Is this about tomorrow? Is this about the next week? It is also a formality related to the immediate solution that I have outlined. What's going on in the next few days?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1307	I've brought both the representative of Hoves and the representative of Oppebøen Hansen's thoughts and brought them back to the department when I'm going to make sure that Storting's intentions are fulfilled. I will also take with me a strong wish from all the parties involved to deal with the situation that is to be resolved smoothly until 1 July, and will deal with it in a way that is not considered bureaucratic and difficult, but simple and good for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1313	Let me first be allowed to follow up a little in relation to the previous lines. The councils wanted to follow up on Storting's intention. But to me, it's a little bit unclear what the Storting's intention is. So I want to challenge the Council of State again: is it now that the Council of State will push on so that at least the possible amount of upliftment can be paid immediately, regardless of, for example, creation of a name? Then I heard the Council of State say in his post that he was pleased that the majority proposed a good and responsible settlement. Is the Council of State considering responsible settlement in relation to the use of funds? I'd like to clarify that. One more thing, in the case of the Occupational Insurance Act in relation to 30 G: Now, hopefully, it's up to 40 G, and there should be some coordination here. So the law is going to operate at 30 G, but here it's going to be 40 G. Is it the case that the last 10 Gs should not be involved in the coordination, because it is not included in the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1324	I ask for an understanding that the details of how I want to handle this after the decision is made today, I must be allowed to spend a little more time on it. What I wanted to communicate from the Parliament's Chair is that I take with me the signals that have been given in this debate, and that I am very concerned about an unbureaucratic, easy way of dealing with the difficult situation that individuals are in, until the topic and arrangement are in place and the more formal part can be implemented. I hope that's an adequate answer. On the issue of accountability, this is a difficult matter, not least because the policy meets individuals, and in that situation it is also demanding to be able to have a principle and overall approach to emotionally difficult issues. And that's what I put in the term responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1331	It's a question of roughness and, one might call it, traditions this settlement is about. Obviously, if you just feel sorry for the divers, or feel a certain moral responsibility, as Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen put it, then this will be a harsh settlement. But if you really have an unregulated objective responsibility for these divers, there is no doubt that this settlement is not a clumsy settlement. That's why the minority would cut through and make an arrangement like we had an objective responsibility. I would like to ask the Council of State what kind of principles of economic compensation and compensation he believes form the basis for what is the majority's proposal for a compensation scheme, which is likely to be adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1336	I note that the representatives of the majority in this debate have seen their proposal as comprehensive, good, neat and simple, and that it is a proposal for a settlement that expresses a recognition and a Community-based liberality towards people who have done an important job for the nation. I also find, without wanting to compare and set groups too closely against each other, in relation to which it could have been possible to compare with, that this is a result that can be experienced and described as being reasonably voiced.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1343	The state council's posts could almost give the impression that he now believed that the minority in this room after this day would introduce US rights to compensation in Norway. I'll cancel that. So we stress that there are other groups that may be entitled to upliftment and compensation from the Norwegian state, but that one must in every case find a system, and without that, like, for example. in this matter, creating some precedent for other matters. Then I have to admit that yesterday, on behalf of the pioneer divers, I thought with frustration that there was a change of state council, so there was a new government council to follow up this matter. Now I see that the councils seize the possibility. I am pleased that he now confirms that progress should be rapid and that payments should be made smoothly. I would just like to remind you that there may be a difference between how the Council of State interprets the term ‘bureaucratic and difficult’ and how it is interpreted in the ministry. I asked him to consider his interpretation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1352	I base my interpretation, and I'm busy -- not least through what's going to happen now -- confirming the expression "reasonable voice".
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1357	As the representative Upbebøen Hansen pointed out, this matter has been very special to the committee because the government has filed a case without advice to the Stortinget. This has also been done by the Department of Administration in several other major and important cases. I hope that the new Council of State assumes that there should be a starting point that the Council of State and the Government offer a recommendation when submitting a case, something else is quite extraordinary. This case has a historical side. It affects many people, but it also affects how activities are to be organised for the future. The Committee has also demonstrated in its opinion that it is possible to question whether the current organisation of diving activity is also satisfactory. This is why a decision will be taken today asking the Government to return to the Stortinget with a review of how diving activity is organised on a Norwegian pedestal today. I would ask that the Council of State here have close contact with the trade union movement in that work and quickly return to Stortinget, so that we ensure that we have a good organisation of the future diving business and avoid the kind of damage that unfortunately many have suffered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1364	With regard to today’s diving activities and incisions not covered by the Commission’s review report, I would like to draw attention to the fact that cooperation between authorities and the social partners is under way to see whether diving is currently adequately regulated and whether the supervision of diving activities is adequately ensured. This work also includes the research-related diving carried out at NUI. The working group shall deliver its report in April 2004 and, in the light of this report, the Ministry will assess whether there is a need for changes in current legislation and supervisory regimes with regard to occupational diving. This report will also serve as a basis for my feedback to the Stortinget on the Committee's proposal for Decision III. Feedback will be provided in the context of a new major health, environmental and safety message in the petroleum industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1369	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1372	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the pioneer divers, who did groundbreaking work in the North Sea, are now receiving upliftment and economic compensation for their health loss. With a compensation of up to 2.5 million. The Christian People’s Party believes that we have now given the pioneers a worthy settlement. We love the divers! The Christian People's Party is also committed to continuing the system of contact telephones for those in need of daily assistance. This is an important measure to promote quality of life and economic stability. The fact that funds are also provided for the production of books, the exhibition through the Norwegian Oil Museum and not least the diplomas for the divers will help to ensure the story of the honorable effort they have made for the country. They deserve that! We have a long and difficult process behind us for all the parties involved. Both in the media and through contacts directly to us representatives have been printed extensively on behalf of the divers – it is not difficult to understand. But as politicians, we have a responsibility to make an overall assessment, on behalf of the divers, on behalf of other groups who believe in the right to compensation, and on behalf of society. In order to be as sure as possible that we would arrive at a satisfactory and fair result, the handling of the case has been thorough and time consuming. I think we've succeeded. I would therefore warn against having an atmosphere that could lead the divers to spend money on a long-term basis in the legal system. It may be a trail of blindness that does not serve the divers and that, in worst cases, may lead to further economic problems. For the Christian People's Party, it is very important not to see this case isolated from other claims. We must hide both in the past and in the future. Unlike many others, the pioneer divers have chosen the diving profession themselves, knowing that the profession was and is risky. But one cannot overlook the risky nature of the pioneer activity — it shows the history of the divers. That is why Stortinget today adopts a worthy compensation scheme for those who were involved in this work. We know that there are many other groups in society that have not had the opportunity to opt out of the abuses they have been subjected to. This concerns child-restraint children, mentioned earlier, war children, lobotomists and tattoos – to name a few. The facts have one of the saddest stories. An entire population was subjected to systematic abuse, carried out by or initiated by and supported by Norwegian authorities. This people have received an unreserved apology from the authorities, but the concrete follow-up is slow. This concerns both the possibility of individual compensation, collective compensation, the preservation of tether culture and, in particular, the prevention of violations of international conventions on minorities. Many of those who were subjected to the most serious abuses are beginning to go away in the years. It is therefore urgent to speed up this work. The Christian People's Party will therefore challenge the Government to ensure rapid progress and rapid clarification also in the matter of the tattoo replacement scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1395	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1399	As the proposer in this case, I have been given 3 minutes of speaking time, and I most respectfully thank you for that – but that is how it is when you represent a small party like the Democrats. If I had today been offered an amount of 2.3 million. I would have said, "Great, that's a big amount." But if, as a 20-year-old or 30-year-old, I had suffered damage because of a bad public code that had made me disapprove for the rest of my life, and that's why I missed working income for 20, 30, 40 years, this would, frankly, have been a negligible amount. The councils talked about reasonableness. Does not all reasonableness mean that you will be compensated for what you have lost? Many of the pioneers do not do so through the proposal that is on the table today from the majority. Of course, the pioneer divers should be properly compensated, at least by the amount proposed by the minority. Of course, in addition to that, they must have an uproar from the state that shows that they have had a responsibility. Governments said that the knowledge of pioneering diving was developed in the light of experience. Clearly, the pioneer divers were not said to be used as guinea pigs. That should give us a raise of $200,000, at least $12 million. kr, as proposed by the Progress Party. Of course, in addition to this, you should also have an honorary pension for the rest of your life. The representative Anita Apelthun Seele said it so brilliantly: ‘... they have made an honorable effort for Norway.’ And... ‘... they have done a job on the edge of the impossible.’ – Yes, nicely said, but does she and the rest of the Storting take the consequences? No, no, no. The North Sea divers and the pioneers in the North Sea are heroes, so they deserve more than beautiful words, buttons, and glossy images. They have taken a great risk of securing the wealth that they have lived in the last 30 to 40 years. Without the pioneer divers, we all wanted to be much poorer. Our well-being is a result of the efforts of the pioneers, with their own lives at risk. Therefore, they must have both a proper compensation covering the actual loss of labour income, a reparation allowance of a significant amount and, what they deserve, an honorary pension each year, similar to the war pension. I therefore take up my proposal for an honorary pension of the same amount as the war pension, which in 2002 was NOK 240 000 per year. It has been delivered to the premises of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1420	The representative Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1423	The dive case is not primarily about the crowns and ears. This matter is primarily about justice. Some react that the crown amount proposed by the majority is not perceived as voice. I would like to stress that the experience of lack of roughness with which many divers are sitting is primarily due to the majority's refusal to take responsibility for what the state has actually done in this matter. When the Lossius Commission concludes that it is likely that the State and oil companies should be able to be held objectively liable, it is simply petty that the majority in this Chamber cannot at least agree to say: well, then we choose a system as if we had had a legal responsibility, like the scheme proposed by the minority. This is not about greedy divers who want more than other groups. This is about justice. This is about getting what you actually deserve. The representative Schjött-Pedersen said that much indicates that, at an early stage, there was no knowledge of damage and risk, and concluded with «a certain moral responsibility». However, when you go into the Lossius Commission report and the background information provided, such as: The North Navy Alliance has been very central to digging forward, I will go much further than saying that much indicates that you did not know. Those who did not know during the period when many of the divers who are currently struggling were injured chose not to know, even if they had documentation. They had dive tables, for example. from the American Navy. There were many opportunities to take precautions that could have saved life and health for many divers, but they chose not to know. I think, if we're going to be completely honest, there's a simple reason that those precautions were not taken. The oil had to go up. It was so central to our country's economy that they chose not to know. That's what makes this case special, and that's why it becomes such a provocation when we don't choose to take responsibility. We weren't far away sending young people of their best age out to die for the country. After World War II, we've barely been closer to doing this than what we were in the North Sea. We have some heroes, such as are represented in the gallery, which has been heroes in two rounds – first through the efforts they have made in the North Sea, and then through the efforts they have made to ensure that we are all able to settle the bill properly. They deserve congratulations and excuses, but they deserve better than the majority chooses to adopt here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1436	The Council of State said in its speech that you need some principles when dealing with difficult issues that affect people, which can be very emotional. That is absolutely in agreement with the SV. That is why we have chosen to deal strictly with the principle that the State has responsibility, based on the assumptions made by other co-representatives. That means that the principle we've been applying, that is, you have to get compensation after the damage you've suffered, and what you've lost, has nothing to do with whether you've earned a lot of money, or where you've worked, as it might sound like the council thought. So it's a question of getting on the basis of the principles of the right to compensation, which is, in fact, so that the amount is related to what you earn in your profession, but not related to what you have created from values for the country. That's why we haven't compared to others when we've looked at that arrangement. We've simply adhered to a principle, because we think that's right. Then you can discuss whether that principle in itself is fair to others. There have been several comparisons here today. I want to say that maybe you should think about it a little bit and realize that some of the replacements that we have given to other groups have been very little noise. Nor has the principle of objective liability been taken into account. There's another way to approach this question than to say, "Yes, but there are so many others here that have got so little, and therefore we can't behave in principle correctly in this matter." I need to say that, because I think that many people in the debate are now mixing up a lot of different forms of compensation, which we have to decide on in the future. But then we believe that we need to be able to deal in principle with those matters, not from case to case. There is a majority in the position that concerns the situation today, and I need the majority to explain why they are not in it. It's the fact that it's now forbidden to dive below 180 meters, and that we actually have installations that are far deeper than this – all the way down to 360 meters. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Centre Party, consider that ‘the Government must immediately find a proper management of this unexplained situation’. What do we do if a situation arises? Should we send down divers, with the risk we know it is today? I have no explanation as to why the Government or government parties do not believe that we need to clarify this situation quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1447	I would like to address a few comments that have been made in the debate. The first is from Anita Apelthun Seele, who said it was impossible to adopt a scheme without beggaring to other groups who are entitled to upliftment. Then I want to remind you that this is exactly how the minority system is structured. It is said that there are other groups who are entitled and entitled to upliftment, but then one must find an arrangement for each one, without anyone here creating precedent for others. And if someone here is in danger of putting up a precedent, it's actually the plurality itself, because they tie their proposal to some of the principles of professional compensation. Then Anita Apelthun's seal was also injured to say that no other group has come close to such a replacement as the one that is signed today. I argued that she was aware that both in the ‘Alexander Kielland’ accident and in the ‘Scandinavian Star’ accident, the compensation amount was 40 G. A first and important step was taken in the year 2000 with the compensation then paid – i.e. NOK 200,000. But I have to remind Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen that here we have an investigation commission, and according to this investigation commission, there is a clear responsibility between the payments in 2000 and the payments now. And then I'll also take up a point like Karin Andersen. When the depth limit today is 180 metres, and the installations are as deep as 360 metres, there is an unexplained situation. Therefore, it is important that the Council of State quickly follow up its proposal for a decision on the point of today's diving, and that the government party does not favour training it. When I took the term ‘bureaucratic and difficult’, it is because in a dialogue with the Pioneer Divers’ Foundation, the Council of State may give examples that show that through the recommendation they have made when it relates to the prepayment of the first 10 million. In return, they have gained the experience that this has our bureaucratic and difficult relationship with the ministry. I'm glad he's now putting the best point in that expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1462	I do not yet have the freeness that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has in relation to taking the word of a manifest misunderstanding in order to try to clarify something that was obviously not a manifest misunderstanding, namely that it is quite clear that the framework has set out the premise for the design of this compensation scheme. When he later described the premises and principles behind this scheme, he was injured to do something that must have been a manifest misunderstanding. When he described the payment through professional damage insurance, he said that the premiums were 30 G. Yeah, that's right. However, insurance against occupational injury consists of two different elements. It consists of a damage you have suffered and a future financial loss. The future financial loss is 30 G, but in order to get it paid as a pioneer dive – if that was the idea – you had to get the money the day after you were without it. And that's not the case. Many of these people have been waiting for this payment for very many years. When you've waited a lot of years, you'll have had an economic loss during that period. So if you were going to rely on the Occupational Insurance Act, this would have been added, and it would have disappeared in Schjøtt-Pedersen's arrangement. It is like saying that you should in some way have been paid down payment for four periods on Stortinget, and then you should get this message: No. The money is not paid today, it will be paid in 16 years, and then you will just get the same as what you were supposed to get on that day, instead of getting the money on an ongoing basis. That's what we're talking about when we say that this scheme is not based on any basic principles or on any other scheme. It's lobster and canary. I would like to say one thing in relation to this with objective compensation. Hans Kristian Hogsnes said that the law department rejects the fact that the department has an objective responsibility and rejects the Commission's conclusion that the state has an objective responsibility. That's not what they do. What they're doing is they're saying they don't want to make a concrete statement as to whether the state is liable on this basis, but they say that the law department notices that it's hard to see that what's coming out of the Commission's investigation is sufficient to establish some legal responsibility for the state. That's not enough, but you don't want to go on to find out if you can get a sufficient legal basis to say that that's the case. So, based on the Commission's attitude, we say, let's drop the juxtaposition, let's not try these things for the Supreme Court, over the entire legal system. That's an unworthy way to do it. Instead, let's say that the Stortinge takes responsibility and gives people a proper compensation arrangement. We don't get a majority for that, and I think that's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1473	I would like to remind you of the starting point here to which the Committee agrees, namely that there is no legal responsibility for the state in this matter. In addition, the Committee emphasises that the State does not have a legal responsibility but a moral responsibility – and that is something else. That's why the majority believe that it was important to establish a particular that was both simple, fast and effective. And of course, we can be criticized for that. But I would nevertheless argue that in an individual test of many cases, as the minority in the committee has agreed, it is suggested that there are matters that will take a very long time. Among others, the Workers' Party has been challenged with regard to proposal No. 2, from SV, the Center Party and the Advance Party, which are distributed to their representatives. I would like to remind you of the background to the arrangement that a decision to establish here today, namely the groundbreaking work that divers in the North Sea did between 1965 and 1990. That is why we are now establishing a compensation scheme for the pioneer divers and giving them a collective recognition. On this particular background, it is clear that the scheme proposed for the North Sea divers is not readily transferable to other conditions. The proposal for a general compensation scheme on a Norwegian base would imply that the State assumes a liability that is also on the company. It is important to hold on to the fact that the company has been granted a right on the base, but also has a responsibility to ensure the addition and survivors. I am aware that the Government is currently considering different types of compensation schemes for a variety of groups. That's true, to name some areas, war children, children's children, patients with radiation damage, the Romani people, etc. And to the extent that it would be appropriate to establish more general arrangements, I would ask the Council of State to include the substance in proposal No. 2, and that the Government also considers it a basis for a more general system in retrospect. In the end, I must say that I am quite upset about the case manager's and the representative Holmås' overstepped when it concerns the Labour Party's motives in this matter. It's never been about establishing an economic framework first, and then making the system afterwards. I'm usually a sensible man, but I'm pretty sorry and quite upset about such statements from this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1486	Let me first say that what the representative Upbeøen Hansen concluded with was interesting. I actually thought I'd take hold of Schjøtt-Pedersen's indescribable rudeness in relation to his behaviour earlier today, for the husband of trying to settle ashore on the basis of the decisions they are now making, I haven't seen. I now also look at Mr. Hansen's posts. As the rapporteur, I have been cautious, I think, in my speech today. I've been acting in an intelligent way, even in all the shadow meetings we've had. I would like to repeat that I suspect the Workers' Party and the government parties that they have first laid a frame, and then made a model afterwards. But if that's not the case, why in the world couldn't the Workers' Party and government parties then clarify, for example. the use of the Petroleum Insurance Fund? They still haven't. They'll still drag this into revision. It should be easy to determine at an earlier stage whether or not they want to use the Petroleum Insurance Fund. That is why I repeat the claim: there are other motives on the basis that the Workers' Party and the Government will not extend the scope of this compensation scheme. And then to the posts of the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen. Here we have stated that, I say, in all confidence, we shall try to reach a settlement without frenzying the debate. So Schjøtt-Pedersen suggests in his post that there could have been diving that has caused sensitisation. How much information and documentation should the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen have before he honestly and honestly admits that there is someone here who has been injured? The husband of the kinship, the husband of giving rice and throwing gasoline at the fire, as the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen does here, I haven't seen. Yes, there are some people who have given signals that they are satisfied – and it has been repeated by Schjøtt-Pedersen and the representative Hogsnes. Of course, there are some divers who get satisfied with 2.5 million. kr. But the point is that with the 2.5 million. kr does not reach those who have suffered the greatest losses, those who were younger, and those who dived first. The ones like St.meld. No 47 for 2002-2003 aims to achieve, the pioneer divers are not satisfied. I think the conciliators should take it seriously. To the representative of Hogsnes, I would also like to comment on the rejection in relation to a group report. I stand here with a fresh e-mail from the Institute of Public Law, which beats in half these claims from Hogsnes. Maybe that's what we're going in the direction of now, just a group report against the state. It was something that the entire committee feared. That's why we wanted to come up with a deal, which we can't do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1499	First to the representative Oppebøen Hansen: I take with me the further work on the matter in the department the content of proposal No. 2 for further assessment. To the representative Karin Andersen: Diving in the North Sea in connection with the petroleum activity has been and is still subject to a health requirement based on the knowledge we have at all times. The assessment of the safety requirement allows for continuous adaptation to the new knowledge and technology we are working on. This includes, inter alia: visible by the fact that even after the test dives at NUI, the industry has imposed a limit of down to 180 metres. On the same basis, the Petroleum Authority has concluded that it does so per year. the current date is not a basis for saying that you can be said to be sound at depths above 180 metres. Such a situation is today, therefore, no consent will be given to manned underwater operations below this limit. Many of the situations that may arise in the case of pipelines and installations at depths below 180 metres can today be repaired with the equipment available without the help of divers. In this context, it can be mentioned that, in the case of the petroleum activity on Norwegian cap, such depths have not been diverted since 1989. For situations where unmanned intervention is not possible, it will be necessary, based on the knowledge we have today, to shut down installations pending new technological and operational solutions. Alternative methods are replacement of pipelines and equipment rather than repairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1508	I think in a way that is enough to make two slightly clearer fronts in this matter than I can see for myself that would be the basis for. We are well in the situation that the question of whether it would be an objective responsibility for the state or not could only be clarified if there had been a case and had been clarified by the courts. It is very likely that you must have ended up in the Supreme Court. Here, there are good arguments both for it being an objective responsibility and for not being the situation. Both the majority and the minority are well in the situation that they deal with this issue in such a way that there is an unresolved question as to how to proceed in order to provide a reasonable, fair and fair settlement, and reasonably here is not used in the sense cheap to the state. You can then find different solutions from that angle of incidence, and I think to some extent you should have respect for each other's solutions. I think that the minority solution could be a very useful way to solve it. I think the solution of the majority is a good way to solve it, and all in all one that I think is better, without wanting to deny the solution that the minority has agreed to. Just to take a small point in the end when it comes to this with the cost: without me being able to do this so well that I'm going to go to count the heads and ears, I have a little difficulty feeling sure that the majority solution will necessarily be cheaper for the state than the minority would have been. Therefore, the claim that the amount was first set and subsequently entered into the solution does not seem particularly plausible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1515	It was the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa who made me take the floor, for she stressed that I had said that it was impossible for a parliament not to beg to other groups. And she herself pointed out as an example that no one who has dealt with this matter now does not know what other groups have received, and what other groups are satisfied with in total – precisely because there is important knowledge when giving compensation. And I'm going to say what it is: we've been thinking about other tragedy in the North Sea, not because we're comparing flat, but because we wanted to know what they've got, and the victims of the Alexander Kielland accident have just got 40 G, which is 2 million. kr. When it comes to the North Sea divers, many of them have received 1,450 million. In addition, kr. So I could say, and hold on to the fact that someone gets over what's been given before. That is the background to my claim that the pioneers have received more than what others have been near. It does not apply to each of the North Sea dikes, but it applies to them as a group. Then the representative says Per Sandberg that he suspects us first of all that he has chosen a frame. I want to cancel it. We think it's going to cost between 400 and 500 million. kr, but it was important for the government party that the compensation should be equal to or greater than that given to other groups before, and he is. As usual, we will come back to the method of coverage at the budgetary procedure, and we have not rejected the use of the Petroleum Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1523	Sigvald Uppøen Hansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1526	That representative Heikki Holmå's addition to the Labour Party, that we have first established an economic framework for the employee, is a derailment of the debate. It has never been the Labour Party's motive in this matter, and I hope that no other party in this house will make such decisions. But I realize that more vocabulary about this only confuses the debate. It's a derailment, as I said. I can also add that we do not know exactly the number of divers who want to participate in this compensation scheme, nor the number of those who are left behind. So we have no idea if the final sum is going to be 400 or 500 million. kr, e.g. In relation to the Petroleum Insurance Fund, the Labour Party has not initially rejected it, but we have said that we will return to it in the context of the treatment of the revised national budget. But what is important here is that the statement adopted today by the Stortinget should be financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1535	If the financial framework was not important to the majority in this case, it is difficult to understand why it has not been possible to deal with any principles, some explanatory guidelines for treatment that would have been possible for everyone to understand. Then you would have been much stronger when dealing with other issues, because then you would have had principles, and you wouldn't have been sitting and chiseling together what you think is voice, where you think you're stretching far, but you don't have any guidelines to follow. SV's opinion is that it shouldn't be cheap for the state to take health from people. We believe that this should be a guiding principle in the future as to how we should conduct ourselves in such matters. So Oppebøen Hansen also made a comparison with what had happened if these had been divers today. Then they had been compensated for professional damage, and then they had less. One of the reasons for this is the lack of one piece in relation to some damage, which you have skipped, and the other part is that – yes, the real relationship is that someone has described the situation almost like Texas in this area – one knew a lot, but one did not initiate measures that could ensure that this was done safely and safely. Now it is not that it is good enough today either, but there have been significant changes from 1990 onwards in this area which, after all, reduces the risk significantly today. It must mean a big difference when we actually know that what was the situation then, was that there were many who knew, few who did some things with it, and that there was actually a lot of damage. So that's why such a comparison becomes irrelevant. The main question of the Workers' Party and the majority is: What is the reason why they believe that the individual should not be compensated for the damage they have suffered? What is the reason why they believe that someone who was very badly injured at the age of 23 should not be replaced? What is the principle reason for landing at such a position? Then I hear that the council assures me that if there is a need for deep dives below 180 meters today, an installation will be shut down. Yes, I hear what the council says. Nevertheless, it is very surprising that the government parties have not been able to participate in the comment made by the majority in the vote, and have assured it during the examination of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1546	Others have signed out what was raised as a question to me in a previous article. On the other hand, I must be allowed to comment on a few of the views and assertions that we have heard on the preparatory work of the Municipal Committee. I say that here we have expressed our views, based on both vision and interpretation, which are not burdensomely precise in relation to the facts we are dealing with here and which do not help to illustrate the complexity of the matter. I shall follow closely with one example, namely the question of our attitude to the preparedness associated with diving deep above what is today legitimate depth. The answer to that question lies in the proposal for Decision III, which is a unanimous proposal, where we say: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back to Stortinget with a review of how diving activities are organised on a Norwegian base today.’ That means that the answers aren't obvious, but that's the answers and the orientation we're asking for, and it's doing a whole committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1558	I note that there is a positive development in the debate, that one does not attribute to one another motives that are not clearly present. The representative, Opbebøen Hansen, signed and several have pointed out that the majority have sought, is to find a fair and, as far as possible, correct and orderly order. Of course, there have been no budgetary restrictions until they have been looked for, and I am pleased to note that the minority are also taking it for information. Then the representative, Andersen, has questions as to why there is no explanation. Yes, the majority have tried to find an explanation. The main difference between divers before 1990 and after 1990 is whether they have been covered by occupational indemnity insurance etc. I do not mention, of course, the fact that developments in diving technology itself and the way in which it is done have evolved, but that is a significant difference, because those who came after 1990 have had the opportunity to be covered by professional damage insurance. Therefore, the majority have looked to: What would have been received in compensation if those who were before 1990 had also been covered by the same scheme? Just in an attempt to express the recognition you want to give to the pioneer divers, and to show that you want a rusty settlement, non-professional insurance restrictions of 30 times the basic amount have been applied, but actually used 40 times the basic amount. That's also the reason why we think this is a harsh settlement. Then I must be allowed to correct the representative Sandberg, who sometimes only hears what he wants to hear. I will therefore be allowed to quote a sentence from my post: ‘The review report also states that ‘a non-negligible part’ of the pioneer divers ‘wears with’ late injuries.’ Of course, a unanimous committee has taken this into account. This is also the reason for the broad consensus that a compensation scheme should be put in place. No one has doubted that there are late injuries, of course it is documented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1572	First, I want to comment on some of what was said by the majority, and it was that an individual test would take a long time, and therefore you couldn't go in for it. However, an individual test would provide correct compensation in relation to the loss that is little, and legal experts strongly claim that the first case would take some time, but then you would get an experience that would allow you to deal with the other cases quickly. Our conviction is that a fair and fair settlement is preferable to one that is unfair and that gives summarical sums to the individual, regardless of the level of damage and the time of damage. So to the matter of how the situation on the socket is today, because I was a little confused by the posts of the representative Hogsnes. The council now says that it is completely clear that an installation will be shut down if it requires manned diving deeper than 180 metres. It makes the Council of State firm, and I say it's my pleasure. But Hogsnes’ posts may suggest that it is unclear that it should be. We have to get an answer to whether Hogsnes shares the opinion of the Council of State that then the installation will be shut down, or whether he does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1581	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1584	Per Sandberg was faced with a great challenge of being a spokesman for an important but difficult matter. He has solved that in a particularly good way and with a very extensive work. Unfortunately, we were not closed in the committee to find a consensual solution, but the process has shown that the majority grew to more than the 30 G as suggested by the Government. We have today had a debate that has shown temperature and commitment, and I assume that the Council of State notices that in spite of various recommendations there is common indifference in the committee in relation to rapid follow-up. There is also frustration among others because the funding has not been clarified, because the use of the Petroleum Insurance Fund has not been established. I find reason to remind you that if a member of the government comes back to the revised budget cut off for other groups to finance this compensation, it will remove correct responses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1593	This is both a good day and a sad day. It is a good day in the sense that there is a system of compensation and upliftment for the pioneers. It's high time. It’s a sad day because it didn’t become a one - voiced big deal that made it possible for the pioneers involved, or, unfortunately, in too many cases their survivors, to be fully satisfied with. It would have been a more worthwhile day, that you were satisfied. I think that if the majority had joined the minority's views, you'd be satisfied. Then it would also have been a just good day and a worthy day. It is clear that it is up to the Storting to regulate it if there are any financing problems within the revised national budget, the rule of action and all of this. If that were necessary – what we do not think is necessary – we could in the event amend the Petroleum Insurance Fund Act and still use it. So there's no lack of opportunity to do this outside the ordinary framework, it's the will of the majority that's here deficient. When we also look back at the history of what, among other things. The work of pioneers divers – of course, there were other categories of professionals at the beginning of the oil adventure, but the pioneer divers had a very, very crucial role – resulting in gains for the entire Norwegian big society, should have had opportunities, I think, to end one day as today that it was just dignity and satisfaction. I think it's a little sad that the majority didn't want this. The majority mix this slightly with the insurance against occupational injury that came later. This is, I think, a very special relationship. And when the government claims that there was not enough closeness for the state to talk about occupational indemnity insurance, I refer to case rapporteur Per Sandberg's main post, where it is clear that the state is the one with the full and full responsibility for everything that has happened in the North Sea, and that the state is responsible in all areas and morally. Then I think it's odd to try out legal tips to pretend that the state is not responsible for what's happened on the base, it's like the legislator, like corporate management, as a regulatory designer, as a control authority, and like everything else. Coming up with a professional indemnity pension that has come in many decades later, I think is a substantial argument. I wish this had been just a good day, and that the pioneer divers, their families and the too many survivors had been happy that they had won the battle they had had to fight for far too many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1606	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1609	I would like to say quite briefly that I am pleased that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen also now realises that an injury has occurred, and that he admits it at the end of the debate. I want to use the 50 seconds left to encourage the Council of State to re-examine solutions that will at least put the compensation system in place in the fastest possible way, but not least that he is looking for solutions that will address the problems that each diver has to deal with today. I think that's very important now in relation to the North Sea Diving Alliance's involvement in the matter, and not least in relation to the Foundation Contact Phone for Pioneer Divers in the further process. I also hope that the majority realizes that it is possible to use the Petroleum Insurance Fund when we come to the revised budget, so that we avoid a debate about collecting millions of dollars from other budgets to put in place the compensation mechanism that the majority is now in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1619	Hans Kristian Hogsnes is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1622	For the sake of order, of course, I share Meyer's view that installations are shutting down if necessary for manned diving in depth beyond the legal level. So where the problems can be solved by unmanned diving, they don't happen. But still my point remains, namely that there is a unanimous municipal committee asking for the Government to come back to Stortinget with a review of how diving activities are organized on a Norwegian base today. It will also provide an opportunity to develop practices on this issue. Then I'm going to make sure that we adopt the arrangement here today. That means that then the discovery remains, and that's what happens in the revision. I think that's what the government parties and the majority here are going to guarantee will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1629	Heikki Holmås gets the word for a short remark of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1632	It is clear to everyone what we mean – that is not what has been the issue here today. From our point of view, it has been primarily a matter of why the Workers' Party agrees with a system that, in our opinion, is unique and not anchored in any previous principles of compensation measurement. That's been our starting point for thinking about us. But that aside, because we're done with it. On top of that, I was going to end by saying that the things we actually get today in relation to both the publishing and the oil museum, and that we get a proper review of today's situation for divers, would never have come up if it had not been for the expedient efforts of the North Sea diver Alliance and others. I thought that I would especially bring them and Henning Jakhelln, who have driven an incredible number-breaking and expediently made constructive recordings right up to the last. I'm disappointed, angry and sorry that we didn't get to the goal, but I'm, after all, very happy with some of the things we've got. But most of all, I'm left with a feeling that we should have managed to achieve this completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09.ana.ud1840e1641	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. It's now a few minutes over 15. [[See page 2131]] Negotiations will now be suspended, and a new meeting will be set at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
