ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e91	The called alternate of the Troms County, Knut Werner Hansen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e100	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Ranveig Frøiland. – Other proposals are not available, and Ranveig Frøiland is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and complete voting after the 1 to 4 cases have been dealt with on today's map, and then total voting after the 5 to 12 cases at the end of today's meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e119	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to five lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e130	Things are going better in the Norwegian economy. There's more investment, the number of bankruptcies goes down slowly, it's sparkly in parts of the industry, and we hear that optimism in large parts of the business world is increasing. Perhaps part of this could be due to the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party last autumn, where we got filled in the empty toolbox with funds for innovation and job creation. But the picture is not unique. Despite the fact that the last month of unemployment showed signs of improvement, unemployment has stuck to an unacceptable high level. By the end of November this year, 84 000 people were registered entirely unemployed. However, the number of participants in ordinary labour market measures has increased. Therefore, we can conclude that in the last six months there have been only slight changes in unemployment. So many unemployed people worry about the Committee and will require active action. In addition, we see Norwegian companies moving their investments abroad. We saw it last Monday, when we could read in the newspapers that Norsk Hydro has to invest $20 billion in Saudi Arabia, while several hundred employees at the aluminium mills in Høyanger and Årdal lose their jobs. The Industry Committee also met a company from Bergen which had moved export production to Praha and which now wanted such conditions that the goods for the Norwegian market could also be produced from Praha. The Labour Party is concerned that so many companies are moving production out of Norway. The fact that production does not pay off in Norway is not to be established. Business policy is one of the most important things we work with. It's about creating values and creating jobs, which are once again part of and funding our welfare society. Here we have to dry to be active within the limits set by international legislation. The stronger and more open international competition, the more important it is that we use the means we have. The World Economic Forum has recently selected the Nordic welfare countries as the best countries for business. This means that Norway has the sixth most competitive economy in the world. I believe this proves that it is not tax laws that are the only driving factor in the economy. We see countries with good welfare arrangements coming out best. The countries that are good at sharing are also good at creating. At one point, the industrial policy of the Workers' Party and the Government is consistent. We both believe that an important pillar of sustainable industrial policy is the order of the economy. A stable exchange rate, low inflation, low interest rates and sound budgetary policies are crucial for the profitability of Norwegian enterprises. But the Workers' Party wants something in addition to order in the economy. We want an active industrial policy – away from a market-driven society with business neutrality and tax relief. Therefore, work on all is a main field of action for the Workers' Party in our alternative budget for next year. We say no to treasures. We would rather have a stronger effort to secure and create new jobs. The working party wants the authorities to participate actively in business and district development together with industry and industry organisations. The industrial policy of the Workers' Party is very much involved. We want what is called an active industrial policy – that the state should engage and not just lean back and leave as far as possible to the market. We're totally dependent on business going well. As I said, that is what is needed for our welfare society to include everyone. Some time ago, the message came that 350 Norwegian seafarers were fired. The government gets what it wants. Fjord Line must be flagged out as a result of the government's policy. The Color Line evaluates to follow. By removing the net pay regime for Norwegian seafarers on foreign ferries in NOR, the political majority has taken away their opportunity to compete with seafarers from countries around us. The government has got through to exacerbating the framework conditions, making our seafarers 40 pst. more expensive overnight. The EU pursues an active policy in this area and imposes good conditions on its seafarers. The Labour Party will take care of and further develop the maritime sector. That is why we also want to continue the arrangements we have had in this area and extend them to other vessels in NOR that are in direct competition. We're following up our promises to this industry. The parties of government do the opposite. The Labour Party will increase the appropriations allocated to Innovation Norway to ensure innovation, growth and employment. There is a lack of enough risk capital in Norwegian business. In order to create growth and new jobs, the country needs to be involved, especially in the start-up phase. Through the public agency, entrepreneurs and others with good ideas can put these into practice. Studies show that such investment brings both business and socio-economic benefits. That is why it was right for us in the Workers' Party to increase the appropriations in this area. The Workers' Party wishes to pursue an active policy of increased value creation, conversion and preservation of jobs in the fisheries sector and in the processing industry. In our Labour Party pointed out how difficult the situation in Finnmark is. With what is behind us, we are proposing to increase the allocation of the marine innovation programme in addition to the government's proposals. We also see that, in order to ensure small and large coastal communities, we need to increase the contribution to the management of fish, because the lead grant is such a clear prerequisite for achieving these objectives. With the difficult situation in which the fishing industry is in, we believe it is wrong to impose new taxes on industry. We are therefore opposed to the inspection fee. As regards the Framework Area 11, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is clearly expressed in both the budgetary position of the Financial Committee, the Budgetary Section. S. I, and in the budget configuration of the Economic and Social Committee, Budgetary revenue. S. No 8, that there is a significant difference between the government's policy and the opposition's policy. These relate to the proposed tax austerity, to the changes in the profit tax and to the average tax on income from forestry. It is surprising, in my opinion, that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are becoming minority when it comes to a remark about a longer-term forestry policy. This minority believes that there is a need for a more holistic and long-term forest policy. We believe that the market alone cannot be long-term enough for values to be extracted in 70-80 years. It will also have a major impact on all those who depend on the forest industry, forest owners, entrepreneurs, timber industry and other industries. Why it's so hard to take a round to look at the whole of forest policy, to me, it's a little incomprehensible. However, we see that the Right and Christian People's Party and the Labour Party agree that there is a need for a greater review of the agricultural situation after the WTO negotiations have been completed. We have a little bit of different formulations, but the intentions are the same, and that's good. The Labour Party is also pleased that it will continue to be a national agricultural policy and that it will be ensured that ‘settlement, value creation and viable communities throughout the country’, as it is called in the main priorities of the Right and Christian People’s Party. The Labour Party considers that the framework adopted is not acceptable in relation to the measures necessary to pursue an active industrial and rural policy. We refer to our alternative budget in the Committee on Budgets and therefore do not promote own proposals for funding within the agreed framework. I am addressing the proposals that the Workers' Party has with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e170	The representative Aud Gaundal has taken up the suggestions she has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e175	The working party has the ambition to reign with the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party from the next fall of the year. When we cross the industrial policies of these three parties, they break in every direction, not just in fiscal policy, in competition policy and in ownership policy. Two of these parties wish to terminate the agreement involving free market access to 25 European nations. Then is my question to the representative Gaundal: Should not employees of businesses selling their goods and services, for example, 25 of the closest, best paid and most important countries in Europe really have reason to lose their night sleep, given what kind of industrial policy the nation could risk waking up to in September 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e184	An attempt is being made to create a fear of the cooperation that might be put on the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. It's unjustified. The fact that there are three different parties, and that there may have to be negotiations, the representative of Kristiansen should be used to it, because it has been practised in his government on the right. He's trying to scare me that it's the worst thing that can happen to business, but I think that's completely wrong. I am aware that the Central Party and SV will terminate the EEA Agreement, but it is clear that for the Workers' Party it is important that it is there. Kristiansen said there were a lot of workers in the Norwegian industry who were going to lose their night sleep now. I think if there's anyone who's lost the night sleep now, it's those who work in Color Line, and who's worried about what's going to happen. In the case of Fjord Line, we know what's going on. But there's no good situation, so there I think they're having trouble with the night sleep.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e193	I'm going to pick up the thread from the representative Kristiansen, because I feel that the representative Gaundal did not respond specifically to consensus. I will therefore try to be a little more specific in the question. She said she was very concerned that we should preserve jobs and prevent the relocation of industry. In the light of the Declaration of Will of the Centre Party, the SV and the Workers' Party on a so-called red-green government, if you get a majority after the elections, I will take some examples of business policy: When we look at this with conventional gas power plants, the Labour Party says yes, while SV and the Center Party say no to gas power plants without total CO2 cleaning. In the case of oil drilling in the Barents Sea, the Workers' Party said yes, while SV said no. The EEA Agreement, which Kristiansen had in mind, which is the most important agreement we have with our main trading partners in terms of selling goods and services, will repeal SV. The work party will keep the matmoms, the centre part will remove the matmoms. And then net pay arrangements, then: SV does not want to have net pay arrangements, for example. for the ferry companies, and they do not want to do anything about the tonnage tax. How does this relate? How can we achieve a comprehensive industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e203	The goal for us on the left hand side of Norwegian policy is that we get a government that has a majority in Stortinget, and that in itself will be stable and okay, because there is something that has been unforeseeable, that is where our current government has gotten support. Sometimes it's been with us, and sometimes with the Progress Party. And I have to honestly admit that I might think it's going to be easier to talk on the left hand side than that, for example. has been for the current government to talk to the Progress Party. It hasn't given us any good and stable conditions. We know that we disagree on some things. But, as I said, negotiations are negotiations. As far as gas power plants are concerned, many people believe that using more of our natural gas is right, but the question is how to deal with the pollution that comes with it. I think most people think that producing the power of natural gas is okay, as long as we can handle the pollution that comes from it. Of course, we disagree about food moms and stuff, but it's kind of a little bit of detail. A comprehensive policy is to be able to come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e212	It was an interesting post by the representative Aud Gaundal. But the most interesting statement, I think, was that she said the following: we want to "grow away from a market-driven society". Knowing that the Labour Party through the 1980s and 1990s has been one of the engines for getting a more market-driven society, where we have removed a number of societal tools for political governance, I think it's nice that you now want to get back. That's why I want government cooperation with the Workers' Party where we can actually take back some political governance, a little more political governance both of business and of other societal tools. Is it right for me that Aud Gaundal and the Workers' Party actually now want to reverse some of the market thinking that is in society, and that we get a little more political governance into Norwegian society again?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e219	It is right, as the representative Ryan pointed out, that in a way we will have more governance and less market. Then of course we can be accused that we in the government have done some work. But there is no doubt that we, who belong to the left side of Norwegian politics, see what real market policy is for something, with the government we now have. I think we should be able to stack on our legs an alternative that is kind of a little market, but also political governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e224	It was hoped that Gaundal’s representative started to find that Norwegian businesses were doing better. She even found that it was "gliding light". I guess it's worth noting, because it's not that often there are such confessions from the Workers' Party this day. But then she fell quite quickly to the well-known dishonour, and found that the unemployment has stuck. There is no basis for such an expression. There has been new optimism in Norwegian business. Last year there were 93,200 unemployed. This year it's 90,000. It's still too high, but it's going the right way. Last month, the total number of unemployed has been reduced by 8 000, and the number of persons employed so far this year has increased by 8 000. The government also expects further reductions in unemployment next year. How will the representative Gaundal then characterise the Workers' Party's period of double and triple unemployment as we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e234	I said in my post that the last six months, unfortunately, the unemployment has in some way remained fairly stable. It has gone down a little, and I also mentioned that, but there have been a lot more measures that have made it a little better. When the Workers' Party was in government, we were through having a lot of unemployment, and it worried us. What's the difference at the time and now is that we were worried about the vacancy. Now I kind of think it's quiet. There is also a policy that exacerbates the situation of those who are unemployed, and there is no good policy, in our opinion. As far as unemployment is concerned, I think we have it in common: it is worryingly high. It is worrying that those who are unemployed are getting worse, for example: because of a number of grapples made by the Government. We see sparkles, and it's also our wish that things get better, and that the numbers go down, because at least we have to agree that they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e243	The representative of Aud Gaundal was concerned about having an active industrial policy. It is very much in agreement with the Progress Party. But as far as I can tell, the Labour Party has proposed 158 million in its alternative budget. kr more for different instruments. There are also some arrangements for seafarers and some other things. When we look at those countries that have really invested in an active industrial policy, such as Finland, Ireland and the United States, there are far more active instruments being put in place. I would remind you that the Workers' Party was the founder of Argentum Fund investment. In private equity and unlisted companies, where there is a significant need, and where results can be referred to, only the Progress Party enters. Neither does the working party do anything in the mature phase. At the same time, they must have a sky-high level of taxation and charges. How can this give the results the Workers' Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e252	I'm a little surprised that the representative Hedstrom points out how little money there is for seafarers and for innovation measures, when we know what the means are, among other things. goes to seafarers and the net pay scheme has to do with it. Obviously, if the Workers' Party had had some of the billions of tax dollars given by the government that is now, with the support of the Advance Party, we would have been able to pursue a much more active industrial policy. But compared to a budget where such tax relief has been taken, it is not that easy to find the millions and billions. So we now think in a way that our alternative budget has been good – sober and very realistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e259	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e262	Let me first credit the committee for a very tidy budgetary process. Cooperation with the Progress Party has turned a very good budget proposal into not just a good budget, but actually a slightly better budget as such. It has, as the representative Gaundal quite correctly said, contributed to bringing the optimism and the sparkle back to the homeland. Although the expression was probably very much in the hands of the representative Gaundal, there is reason to rejoice that the recognition soon reaches new latitudes in the Norwegian people. We're going to enjoy that, because we have to, in a day like this, when we're going to adopt the budget for the last financial year of the Great Depression, to relish a little bit of what was the starting point when we started this process, and what kind of economic basis existed for Norwegian jobs. They were faced with a relatively hopeless competitive situation vis-à-vis their competitors, including abroad. As far as possible, they were to combat a situation with a record dollar rate and salary settlement that had been out of control over the year, in addition to the fact that Norway, with Russia as a derogation, was actually at the European summit when it came to interest rates. We can certainly say that a tight budgetary policy and a successful monetary policy have contributed to Norwegian jobs today being far more competitive than they were when we started the period in 2001. We see that optimism is back. The record high interest rate has been converted into a record low interest rate. We see that the krone price has a positive effect on all export-oriented jobs in this country. I have recorded that the fishing industry currently has quite a focus on itself. It is clear that one of the reasons why you fought in the market in which you have to sell all of your goods was that you fought, among other things. with a very high crown price. In 2002, Norwegian fishing industry lost SEK 1.2 billion on the bottom line due to high krone prices, measured against current levels. We see that optimism is back. We see that the number of bankruptcies goes down and new ones go up. For the first time since 1998, there has been a trend towards increased employment in the traditional Norwegian industry. Not only have we in the industry been able to make sure that production goes the right way. Outsourcing, productivity growth, etc. has caused the number of industrial workplaces to fall – also, of course, in the context of difficult market conditions and the loss of purchasing power in the markets in which we sell our goods and services, which have led to a conflict. But now, in fact, the trend towards increased employment in industry is also back. We have a very high economic growth in this country. It is expected to reach GDP growth, and overall economic growth, both this year and next year, at around 4 p.m., that is to say at the top of Europe, and it has increased dramatically in relation to the situation in the first financial year. We see that we have managed to renovate research efforts considerably in Norway. It has probably not reached 1 pst in business research and private research. of GDP, but we see a clear trend towards growth. We are also able in today's situation to renovate the investment within OFU and IFU, and we see that we are putting in a significant investment next year within nationwide seed schemes built around our four university cities. We see that the district funds that have already been adopted are now being implemented with effect from next year. We see that the focus on innovation and value creation is completely different now than when Stoltenberg, Schjøtt-Pedersen and the company went off in 2001. Of course, there are many challenges around us. There's every reason to remain impatient. But on a day like this, when we deal with the last budget for this magnification period, in the name of justice, there is reason to rejoice that the starting point set for 2005 is far, far better than what we met when we arrived in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e281	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e284	The representative Kristiansen emphasizes what he believes is a consequence of the government's policy. We in the Workers' Party believe that the developments that are coming now are not due to the Government, but perhaps more in spite of the Government. The Government Parties claim in the budget setting that the Government is pursuing an offensive policy. The signals we get in the Workers' Party from business are the exact opposite. At least it can't be fun to travel around and be a nutritionist for government parties. It was also the representative of Kristiansen when he was in Mo in Rana. There is the situation where several thousand jobs are at risk. The government believes that there is no objective to award new contracts to this industry. The government parties on the Storting have been involved in withdrawing it from the budget of the Energy and Environment Committee and will deal with it on its own. Does the representative Kristiansen continue to support the Government, or does he agree with the government parties on the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e291	I travel quite a lot to Norwegian companies and visit jobs domestically. I can't exactly say that I notice anything sucking, neither among employees, among Norwegian business owners or among managers, after putting into place what appears to be the political alternative. On the contrary, I have a significant concern about what this industrial experiment can lead to for Norwegian businesses and businesses, which are now in the process of formidable growth, and which appreciate it. In the case of Mo i Rana, this government implements from a to decide after settings and deposit propositions, St.prp. No 52 for 1998-1999 and St.prp. No 78 for 1999-2000, decided by two previous Labour Party governments as such. What we're doing is the exact same thing as the Workers' Party from a to have gone into the industrial power regime. That we have a major challenge to save power regimes and agreements, including: As far as Mo i Rana is concerned, there is no doubt about it. There's a common task to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e298	The Government Parties and the Advance Party have made a budgetary settlement this time that also draws things related to industrial policy and development in the right direction. In one area, however, the government parties and the Progress Party strongly disagree. This applies to maritime policy. We dealt with the shipping message in ours, but a lot has changed since then. Most had probably not thought that the reduction of shipping would go so fast in Norway. Wilhelmsen, Farstad, Sohmen, etc. flags out new ships, i.e. central Norwegian shipping companies. Also the Royal Caribbean Cruises, which have been in NIS, have flagged out to Bermuda. Here we also have Norwegian seafarers. And now we have Fjord Line. Does the representative of Kristiansen mean that we now have a new situation in relation to the one we had when we dealt with the shipping message? The right will, of course, have harmonisation in all other areas, including shipbuilding. Why do you not want to do so with regard to shipping?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e303	When we discuss Norwegian shipping, I think it appears to be one of the best things in the world. It is one of the few clusters we have in Norway where we can safely establish, without fighting, that we are among the very best in the world. The starting point in 2001 was that more than 295 million were allocated to the State budget. NOK for reimbursement and net wages and salaries. For next year's budget, the amount is 1060 million. kr, in addition to major improvements in property taxes and tonnage taxes, systems which also favourably affect the Norwegian shipping industry. I recognise that in the case of ferries employed in international traffic and priorities within a framework four times larger than it was in 2001, we have chosen to give priority to the model of competence. It is then in front of employees in non-maritime positions in international ferry companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e312	Beø 10.7 pst., Bø 7 pst., Øksnes 6,8 pst., Hasvik 13,9 pst., Vardø 12 pst., Lebesby 11,4 pst. This is the total number of unemployed in six municipalities in North Norway in November 2004. I get with me that the representative Kristiansen applies a positive and offensive tone on behalf of the Norwegian business community. But I just want to emphasize that the image is more composite than the representative of Kristiansen wants to express. Kronor and interest rates are of course important for an export-dependent industry such as the fishing industry. But what else does this government have to offer fisheries-dependent communities? Well, it's extra charges, and it's eternal justice for the ocean-going fleet. Do not Kristiansen, when he hears these solutions, want to contribute a little to a completely necessary conversion of the Norwegian fishing industry, in addition to imposing additional taxes on the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e322	Yes, of course, I would like to contribute to a policy that can turn pessimism into optimism in the municipalities that Elvik's representative frames up. If she had used a different statistic than the unemployment statistics, I think the numbers would have been two to three times larger. It's about moving away from these municipalities, if we're based on the population statistics from 1972 up to the present day. There are municipalities, without exception, which are among the most export-dependent municipalities we have in this country. No one is so addicted to selling what they produce, out of the country's borders as just these municipalities. Without becoming too polemic, I cannot see that the Socialist Left Party has contributed, those who actually want to terminate the EEA Agreement and who have durably fought against the possibility of getting better conditions for Norwegian fishing industry in the market in which they are to sell their products. It is a shame to announce no very positive contribution in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e327	The list that Åsa Elvik referred to could be made considerably longer. What remains in the list of unemployed people in some of our district municipalities is that there are nine Finnmark municipalities at the top of the list, and then there are a number of Nordic fisheries-dependent communities. After 11 to 12 years of the EEA Agreement, it should have been recognised to Ivar Kristiansen that Norwegian fishing industry is not part of the EEA Agreement, like the agricultural industry, and that access to the Union market is not linked to the EEA Agreement but to other agreements negotiated by Norway. That's why my question to Ivar Kristiansen, in line with what Åsa Elvik also asked, doesn't Ivar Kristiansen see that the challenges facing the fishing industry and part of our fisheries-dependent communities require any action other than that the government parties have to offer? Low interest rates are necessary, but low interest rates are unfortunately a result of the need to stimulate the activity, and therefore it is not enough to grow in these societies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e334	It is a very interesting question, which the centre party never answers, when it is correctly established that agriculture and fish are not part of the EEA Agreement: while they want better market access, they have never told anyone what it is that the centre party has to offer the European Union that would allow the Norwegian fishing industry to have better market access than it has today. The Central Party doesn't see that by not having any agreement at all, while with the other hand we pay billions in order to have free market access in other areas at all, is it Norwegian fishing industry that pays the bloodiest price for our alienation? It can safely be established that the Centre Party has chosen to turn its back on the Norwegian fishing industry in its road choices. How much documentation do you really need to see this, in addition to the statistics to which the representative of Enoxen himself referred?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e339	There is no doubt that we need good agreements with the EU to be able to export our fish products. Ivar Kristiansen’s response to this is, in fact, an EU membership, while in the debate today he has accused the Centre Party and the SV of cancelling the EEA Agreement, which would destroy Norwegian fish exports. That's not the case, I think the representative Ivar Kristiansen knows that too. If we had another form of agreement with the EU, the agreement could be at least as good for the Norwegian fishing industry as the EEA Agreement is, since the fishing industry is not part of the EEA Agreement, as the representative knows very well. So instead of turning around with ease of mind about the central party's policy, it might be interesting to hear if Ivar Kristiansen is able to give an answer to my question: doesn't Ivar Kristiansen see that it will be necessary to do anything more for the societies that are now in crisis, up to 20 p.m. unemployment, than the government and government parties have had to offer so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e344	We have individual societies that have experienced considerable stagnation for the past 30 to 40 years. Attempts to describe the situation in parts of Finnmark as newly created are, at best, a highly erroneous representation of historical developments. It's just looking at the population development of the most typical fishing communities. I am a little surprised that Enoksen has such poor contact with the Norwegian fishing industry that he has not got what is happening in the Norwegian salmon industry, and what happens with lost market shares for Norwegian fishing industry, where one is being held from day to day. So the industry in Norway that has the worst conditions in the market is the one that you actually want to give even worse conditions. At least there is no reason to lift a single flag either in Vardø or on other parts of the Norwegian coast to which you like to refer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e351	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e354	Enterprise policy is important for a country such as Norway, and it has become particularly clear in recent years. Parts of the export industry are wearying, partly shutting it down, and partly shifting it out of business. The industrial worker is becoming a defective person in this country. Much of the remaining industry needs to be transformed — that is an undeniable fact. The prospects for the future are very uncertain, even though something has gone a little bit better lately. In a survey carried out by MMI for the Monday morning weekly paper in 400 Norwegian enterprises with at least 20 employees, it can be assumed that new 80 000 jobs will be moved out for the next five years. The world's highest wage and salary costs and the unforeseeable framework conditions are most often reported as the main cause of increased investment outside the world. It is also important to note that it is often the most valuable pieces that are sold or moved out of the country. I'll do some examples. British Amersham has purchased Hafslund Nycomed and is now purchased by General Electric himself. The Dutch Nutreco has purchased Hydro Seafood. Nera is moving out important development functions. This is also very visible in shipping and maritime activities, where Norway has been competent. US Halliburton has purchased Norwegian offshore companies with technological excellence, among others. in well technology. French Schlumberger bought the seismic company Geco. Canadian Teekay bought Norway’s largest bow loader, Navion, which is the world leader in bending load technology. Then someone will probably say, in a globalized world, this isn't particularly eye-catching. Norwegian enterprises also make significant investments outside their borders. However, there is a significant difference: Norwegian enterprises are dominated by a few actors, often through gigantic purchases and investments outside, such as Telenor, Norwegian Forest, Hydro and Statoil. Otherwise, it's more of a smaller direct investment. But in addition, we have an explosion of indirect investment through the oil fund. However, of what is sold, a significant proportion is knowledge-based activities. Some of them are approaching the top of the world in their fields. If such sales do not lead to the construction of long-term knowledge industries and environments in Norway, it is very harmful. This is why it is important to make sure to go the opposite way, by keeping and developing knowledge businesses. It will be the guarantee of maintaining well-being as we have to make ourselves less dependent on oil revenues. In an interview with the NRK on 4 October this year, Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Brande said that it is necessary to do more to keep the jobs in this country. He also said he was satisfied with the Norwegian government's industrial policy. Here we strongly disagree with the Government. Although the government has got a few more tools in its toolbox and seems to gradually accept more modern growth theories than its predecessors, this is far from enough. The reality today is that although we have record low interest rates, even though we have oil, gas, condensate, although we have fish, hydropower and nature, as well as a lot of available labour, almost no new jobs are created in industry and in high-tech areas. Possibilities are squandered in the land of opportunity. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes that this should be done in the broadest sense of industrial policy. Such a policy must cover all the framework conditions affecting the competitiveness of industry and create a bottom line for growth to help an exterminated industry. I will take a few examples of this: the budget option of the Advance Party means tax relief of NOK 25 billion. We believe that this is absolutely necessary in order to give our companies competitive tax conditions, in order to compensate for their handicaps, a high cost level by being far from the large markets, having a small domestic market and poor infrastructure, to have mentioned something. If they are to be sufficiently developed and make the necessary investments, the significant levy must be paid from day 1 onwards. The aim is to make it more attractive to bet on risk projects. Then the demanding customer, the subcontractor and the surrounding environment can find it more beneficial to bet on projects in which they themselves believe and which they believe can provide a useful return. The government’s vision of innovation policy for Norway to be one of the world’s most innovative countries requires nothing less than an innovation revolution to succeed. There is a need for completely new rules of the game, where established growth theories no longer hold in order to assert themselves in competition. We must not raise the neutral tabs so high that the shadows of reason that lie in ensuring that we have internationally competitive framework conditions in the areas where we already have significant competence in Norway, or have obvious natural advantages, such as the biomarine sector, energy, offshore and maritime sector. In particular, we need to take the initiative in some core areas where we have great opportunities. If not, we are gradually developing into a branch country. The principle of business neutrality must then give way to the principle of targeted investment, if the Government is to be able to succeed in full or in part. I'll take shipping especially as an example of this. The recent announcement that Fjord Line is flagging out joins the range of negative news about shipping companies’ outsourcing and loss of Norwegian jobs at sea. Following the examination of the shipping communication in the Stortinget in June, with much worse framework conditions than for European shipping countries as a result, the shipping companies flee Norwegian registers, and Norwegian seafarers are landed. Norway has been demolished in five months from third place to fifth place among world shipping nations measured in tonnage, and now Hong Kong too is about to go by – then we get the sixth place. Continuing this development, we can risk many businesses that are currently part of the maritime cluster moving out and many of the 70,000 jobs here disappear to land. The Progress Party has said clearly from: it is a policy-chosen development that leads to the degradation of the maritime environment. I would like to remind you of our proposals in dealing with the maritime communication, which, if they had been adopted, would have ensured shipping internationally competitive framework conditions, so that Norway could still have a position as one of the world's leading shipping nations with a significant number of Norwegian seafarers in service. We are following up on proposals in the State budget as part of bringing the framework conditions up to a European level. With the negative trend in Norwegian-registered shipping, we hope it will be easier for the Minister of Industry and the bulk of the population to get their eyes up. The changes we have experienced in the international economy, and the globalisation of the economy, have had consequences in many countries regarding the role of the country in industrial policy and the relationship between the state and private. The state has been given a stronger organizational role. Industrial development is the result of close cooperation between industry, research and public policies in those countries that have been successful in an active and modern industrial policy. The classical socio-economic thinking in Norway requires that economic policy facilitates the quest for capital at all times for the most profitable project. This means that all the materiality of the investment capital goes to mature enterprises where the risk is least. The party of progress will not slave to this assumption. At all stages of product life, from idea to mature enterprise, we want a much more active state involvement than today. It is equally fully possible to maintain a high level of competition for private funds going to risk investment. Nevertheless, there will be a shortage of capital at all these stages in any case, and the risk will remain significant for private investors. But an active industrial policy will mean that some private investors are willing to invest in an earlier stage of production development, and that is positive. In the field of the Business Committee, the Progress Party shall follow this up, inter alia. by strengthening the new innovation and internationalisation company in various areas, whether in the field of R & D efforts, nationwide innovation schemes, export-oriented activities, international tourism marketing or multi-country seed funds. We are going a long way in improving the competitive conditions for competitive shipping. Furthermore, we are promoting proposals to strengthen Argentum Fund investment, both in the 2004 supplementary proposal and in the 2005 state budget, in order to channel the country’s saving towards the best environments. Substantial strengthening of the business area is also taking place through our foreign budget, and much, much more. Our proposals will be able to give rise to positive forces in the form of labour, capital, initiative and creation in Norwegian businesses. The Progress Party has also for several years been raising the issue of major government investment in mature enterprises. We want to change the statutes of the oil fund, so that not all investments happen outside. Parts of the capital must be capable of being used to build up Norwegian industrial activities. Funding schemes will help to make our industrial base more competitive. Why not use the new raw material capital as a competitive advantage for Norwegian business? The State's capital strength may be used as a comparative advantage. Therefore, the Progress Party considers that one or more Structural Funds should be set up of significant size. In this regard, I would like to refer to the conclusions of the book «The Problem of the Kingdom», by Kjell Roland, Torger Reve and Victor D. Norman. It appears from the book that as long as the state accounts for the majority of savings in Norway and this capital is almost systematically channelled out of the country, we have almost decided that large internationally oriented companies should be sold out. It will then be more difficult to anchor ownership of industrial systems in Norway. The objective of the Structural Fund should be to invest in privately owned internationally oriented companies. The fund may be a co-investor for Norwegian private purchases in connection with potential foreign purchases or in connection with the restructuring of Norwegian mature enterprises. The Structural Fund can cooperate with Norwegian industrialists and be an alternative when foreign interests want to buy up attractive Norwegian companies. Part of the costs of a more active industrial policy and extensive business-friendly tax relief are covered, among others. through significant cuts in agricultural aid and increased use of oil revenues. For us, it is alarming that the political majority will maintain very high transfers to agriculture, while claiming a tight budget. The time is ripe to deal with the agricultural governance system and the legal basis of agricultural policy. More than 60 years of a well-regulated agricultural industry prove that the policy pursued has failed because ambitious targets related to housing, employment and income levels have not been met. Furthermore, agricultural policy has meant significant costs in terms of public expenditure, high food prices and reduced nutrition for farmers. The Progress Party will withdraw from this misguided management of agricultural plans, which has made many farmers more or less passive beneficiaries – a policy that is in the process of destroying an entire industry. Before I address my proposals, I would like to propose an amendment to proposal No. 7 and delete one word in the last line of the proposal. Otherwise, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, I would like to raise proposal No. 19, which is distributed in the hall. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal of the Advance Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e388	Sorry, the President is wondering a little about the change the representative made in proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox What word was that was struck?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e391	It is the word ‘latest’.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e396	That's all right. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e401	There's a great deal of harmony between the government parties and the Progress Party today, it looks like. The representative Hedstrom said earlier today that after the budgetary agreement, there is a lot of business policy that points in the right direction. But in yesterday's debate in Odelstingen on emission allowances, the representative from the Progress Party said that the biggest risk project in Norway today is to run industry with the current regime. My question to Hedstrøm is: Does not the Progress Party have the responsibility for this regime to continue? And does the representative Hedstrøm agree with his colleague in the Committee on Energy and the Environment that it is a risk project to run industry in Norway under the current government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e407	Unfortunately, I cannot comment on the representative’s statement, as I have not read it and do not know whether this has been drawn out of its context. But I believe, of course, that the Progress Party has the best business policy. No one stands for giving 25 billion dollars in tax reliefs and removing the property tax, as we want primarily. I read in the Evening Post a few days ago that Finland is now removing the property tax – the country that has also gone almost the longest in terms of pursuing an active industrial policy – and Sweden is laying down at a level of 3 million. kr before taxes on wealth at all, just in order to create new jobs. This is in line with what the Progress Party wants. What is the famous thing here is that these countries have government debt. Sweden has 1,300 billion Swedish kroner in government debt, but yet they know how to get jobs and do the right moves. When it comes to the deal, I'm going to have to frame up a number of things. Yeah, I don't think there's time for that, but I'm assuming I get it in the next line. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e416	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the representative Hedstrøm and the Progress Party for very constructive and good negotiations in the context of the budget agreement this autumn. But it is the case that the Progress Party is voting in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the government parties, and in this respect I would like to make an observation and a question to the representative Hedstrom. I expect the Progress Party to get all the positive signs we see in the Norwegian economy now. We've got lower unemployment, low interest rates, more start-ups of businesses, companies look more positive about the future, and we're tracking a generally positive attitude of business towards the future. Most of the economic reasons why the arrows point in the right direction are, among other things, The government's tight public budgets and the tax reliefs given to business. The Progress Party wants both parts, both increased public consumption and tax relief. Does not the Progress Party of the Government and the country's leading economists share the reason why Norwegian business is looking positively at the future, and that we can therefore look positively at the welfare and value creation of the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e425	Of course, we are at least partly in agreement with the government parties and the Right in this, otherwise we would not have supported the budget subsidly. If we thought it would go in the wrong direction, we would say no to it. But we think we should take advantage of the position we have today. We have 90,000 unemployed. We have natural resources that we can use, we can develop opportunities in travel, etc. Now there has been a debate over the last few days on fisheries and the northern part of the country. Other European countries envy us the opportunities we have there: oil, gas condensate, tourism, tourism, traditional fisheries, farming, etc. We have so many possibilities if we get a policy that makes it possible to develop this into something positive for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e432	When you read the budget of the Progress Party, you can see that they will almost halve support for Norwegian agriculture. My question to the representative Hedstrøm will be: Have any impact assessments been made in the Progress Party on what will lead to halving support for Norwegian agriculture? I don't forget when the committee was traveling in Finnmark in the fall, when Hedstrom in Tanadalen gave a flaming talk about how important it was with Arctic agriculture, while he opened a new cold spring in Tanadalen. Does the representative Hedstrøm really believe that it is possible to hold such flaming speeches and open new feathers in the Tanadalen with the agricultural policy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e439	It is true that the Business Committee visited the interior of Finnmark. What I commended the young farmers on the agricultural side was that within the existing political system they tried to develop agriculture as much as possible. But if you go to the statistics from NILF, you can see that a farm use in Finnmark has an average income of 500,000 kroner. It's the highest in the country under polar strike. More than the Progress Party should then ask some questions in relation to the agricultural policy pursued. Too soon the customs walls fall, and we will be exposed to fierce competition in this country. But for the time being, only one party wants to develop a robust agricultural industry. All the others make significant transfers and link agricultural policy to rural policy. So we do not want that. We do not want businesses struggling in rural areas to be included in the tax package and to finance Europe's most expensive agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e446	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to express my thanks for a good and constructive cooperation with the Progress Party in the Committee on Budgetary Control. But I want to get a little grip on this with agriculture. For the Christian People's Party it is important to have a good agricultural policy. But the Progress Party's drastic cut in the way of creating a robust agriculture seems to me to be working towards the goal. What will happen to the districts if the Progress Party takes effect on its agricultural policy? There are many areas where the Progress Party is changing policy, for example. it applies to the community economy and several other things, as they have become spokesmen around. When will the Progress Party take on board what it means to use the whole country, that having an agricultural industry in different parts of the country is important for housing and district policy? So I could think of bringing a little question with respect to fishing. As a primary point of view, the bulk of the batch of progress is to cut supplements for nutrient measures in the fishery by 30 million. kr. But hedstrom doesn't see that it would be positive for the fishing e.g. holding up the feed additive?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e455	The Progress Party has realised that agricultural policy in rural areas will not be a major industry in the future. We lose 2,000 to 3,000 farmers every year, and the department – we have Sponheim here – has calculated that if we keep the nominal transfers we have today, we will only have 42,000 farmers left in 2010. So the number is gradually reduced by the current policy. Then one should be interested in settling with that policy and changing it. I will take an example of a country that has done so, namely Finland, at the same latitude, with the same topography, the same social institutions as Norway, etc. They have changed the agricultural policy. Prices have decreased approx. 10 pst. There have become fewer farmers, but those who are left have a belief in the future. And as far as fisheries are concerned, what we have to do first and foremost there is to do something about the overcapacity of both water and land.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e462	It is interesting to hear Øystein Hedstrom talk about the need for a more active industrial policy. The last party to the progress made budgetary settlements with the government parties was given, among other things. average of half-yearly motorcycle charges. This time it looks as if the representatives of the Christian People's Party are smiling considerably wider over the budgetary agreement than the representatives of the Advance Party are doing. In view of the time Hedstrom used to talk about the need for a more active industrial policy, and not least a more active shipping policy, there is reason to ask: why is it that the Progress Party does not give priority to industrial policy measures in budgetary negotiations? What they have achieved is a new seed fund in Stavanger. It's positive. Then they've had the advantage of cutting conversion appropriations to South Varanger. In addition to this, there are few signs to see in the food chapter of the negotiations of the Progress Party. Is it the case that the Progress Party wants to reserve the industrial policy for festivities, or does it not have a real ambition to get through to that policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e469	There were many things we did in the negotiations with the government parties that directly or indirectly have a major impact on industrial policy. I only have 1 minute available, but I'll try to frame them up: We reduced the food tax by 1 pst. The government wanted to raise it by 1 pst, a difference of 2 pst, with a proceeds of NOK 1.2 billion. It is a prerequisite for benefiting consumers. This will also be positive for the value chain for food. We got an extension of the temporary extension of the permit regime from 26 to 42 weeks. It's important for business. The employer’s obligation to pay on leave was reduced from 10 to 5 days. It's positive. We got an extension of the TaxFUNN scheme for entrepreneurs in individual companies in revised form. This has been funded in order to receive a framework-driven support scheme for unremunerated research efforts in enterprises. And we got quite right, as the representative of Enoxsen said, a seed fund in Stavanger – a nationwide seed fund, where the goodness of the projects is determined, not the location.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e482	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e485	Challenges that we have to describe in a budget are how we want to secure jobs and develop new ones. In my post, I will spend most of my time talking about SV's policy and how to reduce unemployment and get an activity in Norwegian business. There are three grips that we're focusing on. The most important thing to do, as you'll see when you look at our budget, is to focus on knowledge, knowledge from early childhood onwards and throughout your life. One of the areas of knowledge where I think we need to improve significantly is how we connect research environments and educational environments – i.e. universities – to business. I think we've had a lot of good researchers. We've had a lot of strong educational environments. Among other things, we now have five universities and many colleges. However, contact between industry and educational institutions is too weak. There, I think, is the key to success in industrial policy in the future. If we manage to make good connections here, so that much of the knowledge that lies in these environments is systematically added to business – not just the business of big cities, but the business of the whole country – I think that's the main reason why we succeed in developing the business we have and creating new jobs. The other area I think we need to invest even more, and which is also good in this year's budget, is the investment in the instrument. I think Innovation Norway this year is getting an acceptable budget. It's a budget that I think is going to do a good job. It's not perfect. These include: too little money for simple early-stage grant schemes, and there we see that this is an improvement. But in some other areas it's good. But I would like to stress what we said when we dealt with the instrument, that Innovation Norway should have two completely fundamental ways to think about it. One is that there's going to be a door, that business is making this as unbureaucratic and simple as possible, that it's going to be a door. I hope that the Minister of Industry listens extra well to what I am saying now. It's supposed to be a door. The second is that you have to be proactive, as it says in the decision we have taken. Proactive means, in my mind at least, cooperative and solution-oriented. When I travel around and meet business, I hear that Innovation Norway is not enough cooperative and solution-oriented – yet. But it's probably an old culture that you have to work with. Here we have a challenge in that the instrument has to get into a so-called proactive phase, in which you have that kind of attitude when you meet business. The third area we have to achieve if we're to succeed is capital. We know that it is difficult for those with good business ideas as well as for good measures to get capital from banks today. Therefore, in SV we are very pleased that we get up some arrangements for equity. We have taken initiatives to raise seed funds for underprivileged areas. I expect it to start now, and that in the early New Year you have it operationally, so that we get money out to businesses throughout the country. In addition, we support the fact that the government has also come up with seed funds for university cities. Now we hope that you can also consider taking Tromsø, because you have left Tromsø out. The setting includes both Stavanger, Bergen, Oslo and Trondheim, but Tromsø is excluded. That is why we have a note asking for consideration to be given to taking Tromsø when preparing the revised budget for 2005. So I'll talk a little bit about agriculture. Agriculture is facing enormous changes. I have had the pleasure of being part of opening a feather in the Lierne on Friday evening, where seven farmers have joined together and made a big bird. I have to say, it was a great experience to see how well the animals were there. They were lying on mattresses, they had their own machine where they got itching, and they walked around. I saw it was happy cows. The 40 of us who were in the opening were also happy to see the happy cows. On the one hand, I saw an animal welfare that pleased me, but there was also guts in farmers, with a belief that it is actually possible in a mountainous area to invest in agriculture, agriculture and milk production in the future. It delighted me very much. It shows that flexible and offensive agricultural policy is a great opportunity. That doesn't mean we're just going to use where farmers have to go together. I also believe in the small user. We must take the view that we must facilitate diversity in agriculture, both because Norway is so different — Sogn and Fjordane are so different from Hedmark — and also because people have different needs. There are some people who actually think it's good to produce half a year's work of meat, and we have to make it possible. I would like to refer to a point made by Mr SV in the vote, which goes on this with the fact that we want a broader debate in the Stortinget before the agricultural negotiations. The majority of Norwegian agricultural policy is put in the agricultural negotiations, and relatively little is outside. It is then wrong, in SV's view, that we, as a magnificent, sit too much on the sideline, i.e. that the agricultural negotiations are left to the Minister of Agriculture, a central person in the bureaucracy – and partly to the Lord of Spring – who governs from our side. I believe that the Stortinget must go ahead and discuss a little what we want with Norwegian agriculture. What do we want in relation to ecology, what will we do in relation to structure, etc.? I had hoped that the council had come to Stortinget and asked for such a dialogue. I think it would be useful for the Council of State, but not least it is useful for us who are agricultural politicians, for us to share in giving some signals, so that the state knows what to bring with it when negotiating with the agricultural organisations. Finally, I want to mention something that some people think of as a curiosity, but that we in SV have been fighting for for three years, and that's five million. kr for the local stores. I'll spend the last two minutes of my speaking time on it. Now, for three years, we've given the 95 most vulnerable small communities in Norway $50,000 each to save their local store. There's a very small amount in the state budget, but it's a very large amount for the community that benefits from it. And it is an unbureaucratic and simple form of district policy. Many of us who travel on vacation say, "Oh, it's so great to come to these communities where there are 30 people, because there's still a living Norway. But if it's still going to live people in the great small communities, a shop offer is a minimum. I hope that Stortinget now agrees that we can obtain this as a firm support for the most vulnerable local stores in Norway. That's good environmental policy, because then people travel there less. They can't drive for miles to get a liter of milk. But it's also good district policy because the store is a gathering place, and that's where you get the necessary goods, and it's possible to put other services there. So now I hope this is the last time SV has to run around the Stortinget and around the government offices to get this money, which is such a small amount. I expect that no matter what government sits for the autumn, it says the amount – actually it should be $7 million. kr, because then we are going to hit completely – on the state budget, and that we agree that it is sensible and good industrial policy, good environmental policy and not least good rural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e518	It's going to be line change. In addition, the President will say that the main agricultural policy document presented is the budget and its position. So there is plenty of opportunity to give agricultural policy signals in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e523	SV wants to secure jobs and reduce unemployment, said the representative Ryan. What about the sailors? In addition, in this budgetary procedure SV has joined with the government parties and said that they are satisfied that the district-oriented seed schemes are in place. Then Ryan says in this debate that they are expected to start in the new year. While the Government says in the budget paper that the aim is to establish four new district-based seed funds. I ask, how in the world can SV trust the Government in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e530	There were two questions here. As for question two, yes, we trust the Government in this matter. And ask one, about the seafarers: yes, that's one of the things SV has pointed to, it's a difficult thing. We also have great sympathy for everyone who loses their job. It is always a pity when someone loses their job in Norway because there are more favourable framework conditions elsewhere in the world. Unfortunately, every week we experience companies applying for better framework conditions. Some are applying for the Baltic, some are looking towards China and India, and some are looking for other kinds of solutions. That's always regrettable. We in Norway have to work to keep the most jobs in Norway. But we can't go on chords that we have to have some taxes into our welfare society if we're going to run it, and it's both business and employees. That balance makes us sadly sometimes see some jobs disappear, and then it's important that we have a good tool in the form of a good Aetate that takes care of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e535	According to a newspaper report, it appears that Ryan should have stated that if SV had existed when the wheel was invented, SV would probably have voted against. It'll probably be going a little too far to draw comparisons between the invention of the wheel and the TreasureFUNN. But at least they now have it in common, both the wheel and the treasure fund, that they prove to be a success. This year's budget looks like the Socialist Left Party has taken a more positive view of the tax FUNN scheme. Can Ryan confirm that SV gradually supports this new invention, SkattenFUNN, as they later supported the invention of the wheel?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e544	First of all, I have to say that I am very pleased that the Right is following the posts I have held at various county meetings, and my speeches. I hope there's a little bit of learning in it, so I hope they keep going. I'm also going to give some speeches, so the representative Momyr will get the overview of the posts I'm going to hold over the winter. In this case with the Tax Fund, we were initially skeptical about going from a grant scheme to the FUNN and over to the Tax Fund, because we thought that the scheme that we had worked well, it was unbureaucratic and simple. But we see that the TreasureFUNN also works satisfactorily. And there's no reason why we're going to go in and change a system that works satisfactorily today. But initially, we thought that the grant scheme was also a very good scheme and that it should actually have continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e551	The representative Ryan talked about the hazy cows, but he didn't talk about the unfortunate seafarers. The Reiars are flagging out and thinking twice, maybe both the triple and the quadruple, and not a treasury bill is coming to Norway. Seafarers are hunted on land, unemployed – perhaps SV has some mattresses for them too. All this is thanks for the failure of the agreement of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party on 27 February 2003. Ryan talked about creating jobs, but he didn't talk about laying down jobs, to which they are involved in the maritime industry. Why does SV fail working seafarers?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e558	I think it is commendable that the Progress Party is working to ensure that workers keep their jobs, where we have a common interest. But I also think it is interesting that the Progress Party, which was actually in the negotiating position with the Government and had the opportunity to secure net pay arrangements for the seafarers – if it was really so important to them – failed when it came to it, so it failed when it came to it. One has stood outside the Storting and talked about that the most important thing for the Advance Party is a net pay scheme for the seafarers. And then you get into a situation where you negotiate with the government, and then you throw that proposal aside right away. It tells a little bit about the Progress Party and what they really think about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e565	The representative Inge Ryan is and has been very busy with the challenges in the districts. In several areas we have had good cooperation, including in connection with the budget, although it is the Progress Party with which we have had a budgetary agreement. But when you look at SV's alternative budget when it reaches e.g. For agriculture, one will see that there are very few million dollars actually distinguishing between the Government's proposal and the SV's proposal. Does this mean that SV generally agrees with the Government when it comes to agricultural policy? When it comes to industrial policy and districts, SV is very busy that we have supplements and tools. That's very good, but we also have to have a generally good economic policy. We need a tax policy that is positive for business, and there it seems like SV has panic in order to do good things for business, and goes against a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e572	While Inge Ryan is on his way up to the pulpit, the president will say that he thinks the representative forgot to make suggestions, so he can take care of it at the end of the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e575	We don't panic. We're trying, as I said in my speech, to point out what's important in business policy for us to succeed. I don't feel like panic. SV uses no more money than the total framework provided by the Government. It is true, as has been said, that very much of the agricultural policy is in the agriculture business. If you take away the funds that go to food safety, that is. to the Food Authority and to the safety there, to the Ministry of Agriculture and to the farm, there are quite modest resources left to be used. But in all our budgets, we have put in a profile that goes on animal welfare, ecology, bioenergy and recruitment to Norwegian agriculture – to cover four of the areas that are thus found in all the four budgets we have submitted. We have invested more money in these areas, because we believe it is important to prioritise this more strongly. But most of the instruments are in the agricultural agreement, and I therefore refer to my main contribution in this regard. Then I take up the suggestions in the setting that SV has alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e590	The representative of Inge Ryan has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e593	Concerning the seafarers and government negotiations: the Progress Party brought the case up on the net pay system for ferries, but lost. And there is no basis for saying, if the Workers' Party, and especially SV, had been negotiators, that we had been able to see through to this. But the reason I asked for the word in reply was that I did not fully understand Ryan's reasoning that we must have tax revenues. It was almost like hearing Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss – when he compares to Singapore and Hong Kong etc. However, the countries with net pay arrangements are high-cost countries in Europe. We would get far more into tax money by keeping the maritime cluster in Norway – with ring-fences for 70,000 people, the supplier industry, the supply service, the bank, the broker, insurance. What we lose on the carousel, we would have taken back on the swings. Wouldn't we keep the maritime cluster on Norwegian hands get far more tax revenue than the billion we lose on the net pay scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e602	Once upon a time, those who somehow serve on the net pay scheme are some shipowners. If it is about doing so, then there is no doubt that there are those who serve on such a scheme – a scheme that, in our opinion, is little focused on wanting anything about Norwegian policy. That is why we have invested a lot of money for shipping. In order to modernise the freight fleet, we have put in $10 million, and we also have a number of other measures. This is about what you want to do. If you want to do something for Norwegian shipping, you can also take other steps than just agreeing to a net payroll scheme, which provides a significant tax base for some of the richest in Norway. Finally, I have to say that if the net salary had been so important to the Progress Party as it sounds in the lines from both Solholm and Hedstrøm, it is strange that one could not get this through in the budget negotiations. This suggests that this is probably not as important as it sounds in the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e611	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e614	The Christian People's Party is well pleased with the budget within industry, fish and agriculture. We have had good cooperation and a budgetary settlement with the Progress Party. It is important for the Christian People's Party that the industrial policy underpinned gives an offensive stake in jobs, well-being and renewal. This year’s establishment of nearly 23 000 new businesses is a good example of how the Government facilitates innovation and innovation. The number of nationwide measures to promote innovation, travel and innovation is increasing. Many start-ups create new jobs. Innovation Norway is an important foundation for being able to get a lot out of the tools we have. As the representative Inge Ryan also pointed out: there should be a door – more coordination of existing tools. It's interesting to note that one of the trees that establishes single-handed workers is women. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government will work to strengthen the women's segment in leadership positions in Norwegian business. Equal opportunities are valued by increasing the number of people in the business world. There are different challenges for different industries. The Committee has taken note of its innovation programme, Innovation Furniture, and we are aware that the need for change and development is great. This development program is currently being completed. The government follows up the shipping message in the state budget. The tonnage tax rates are reduced to an average level in Denmark, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. A selection of experts from the relevant scientific community shall be appointed to review the Norwegian Reiaar Tax Scheme. In order to ensure Norwegian seafarers' employment, the Government proposes to continue in 2005 current support schemes, with a promise of over DKK 1 billion. This is a historically high level. The government's proposal to establish new seed funds in university cities has been fully endorsed. In addition to the four cities that have been proposed, we have been told that Stavanger will also be included. We rely on our nutrient base to help both create and maintain jobs. In the future, we have to rely on the fact that more jobs will have to be within knowledge businesses. I therefore found it very positive that the Minister of Economic Affairs has contributed to the provision of DKK 3 billion for research into nutrition rights. We have made some re-priorities within the budget framework of the Economic and Social Committee. We've got 2 million in place. kr to newspapers for seafarers at welfare stations in Norway and abroad. We see it as important to continue this scheme – as an important cultural contribution to this group. When it comes to the licensing of welfare stations for fishermen, such as the Norwegian Fisheries Team, the Norwegian Maritime Commission and the Norwegian Maritime Association, it has increased by 500,000 kroner, so that the total total is 1 million. kr. We're happy with that. We have also managed to prioritize support for edge shops, with a total of 4 million. kr. This is an important contribution in many small communities and can have a positive impact on the construction. In the budget, a special focus is on innovation and an active and targeted innovation policy – which includes both entrepreneurship and infrastructure! It is not just industrial policy in general that is important – there are many other areas in the budget of the Business Committee that I would like to have drawn up. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is important that a good industrial policy is also a good district policy. Agriculture is an industry with good regional policy effects. The Ministry of Agriculture has changed its name to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. It gives a signal effect to the government's focus on food policy. It is important to ensure both national food production and safe food, irrespective of whether the products are produced nationally or imported. WTO negotiations are an important issue for agriculture. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that one of the objectives of the Norwegian side is to ensure a result that gives room for action in order to pursue a national agricultural policy. There were some changes in the budgetary procedure in relation to agriculture. This is primarily the case with the proposal for a profit tax on the sale of agricultural property. The ten-year rule is passed on to family rejection, and a family is defined in the same way as in the nodel law. In the case of the Ministry of Fisheries, the representative, Einar Steensnæs, will come to it in an article later. I think that the business committee has reason to be proud of much of the developments in business when we look back at this period. It has our tough and demanding challenges. We see that it's going the right way for business. We can all enjoy that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e655	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e658	In modern times, a network of welfare services for coastal fishermen has been established. The offers have been operated by Norsk Sjømannsförbund, the Inner Maritime Commission and the Norwegian Fisheries Team and financed by self-help, own contributions and government grants. The amount of the subsidy was up to 2003 at around EUR 15 million. Three million. kr. The objective of the right is clearly to remove also this budget item, on the basis of a principle of self-financing, that this is not the responsibility of the State. Therefore, the amount in the year was NOK 500000. Next year, the amount, as Molver Grimstad also said, increased to 1 million. kr after intense work and lobbyism. But there's only one third of what it was even last year. The Christian People's Party, through its, in my opinion, proper attitude in the Government has contributed to the dramatic cut in the well-being of the fishermen. The representative of Molvær Grimstad was proud of the budget and also of this post. How proud, on a scale from 1 to 10, is Molvær Grimstad of the Christian People's Party's contribution, which is in fact that the arrangement has been cut by two thirds in two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e665	A lot of people are doing a great and important job with well-being stations. But it is in the budget negotiations that one should negotiate a lot of good measures, and one would like to have space and resources for a lot of good things. Then it's often the case that one has to set things up against another, and it's not all a get as much money as one could think of. But when we've increased this entry from $500,000 to $1 million. kr, it is a contribution both from the Right and from the Christian People's Party. We have in common, and also in budgetary discussions with the Progress Party, been in the process of lifting it up. So it's going to be a challenge when it comes to budgeting the next few years, to be involved and influence, so that these money doesn't go away altogether. At least the Christian People's Party will be working on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e672	I want to get back to the seafarers. We now experience that more and more flags are flying out. The representative of Molvær Grimstad comes from More and Romesdal. One of the country's and one of the world's largest supply companies, Farstad Shipping, is now about to fly out all its new boats. We see Fjord Line flying out. In the ownership of Fjord Line are «Fjord1», and Fylkesbaatane in Sogn and Fjordane and Møre and Romsdal County boats increase the flag. We might expect both the fast-track companies and the Fjord1 to also fly out. Is there a hope in the hanging line that the government might see that there is the wrong policy they're in, and that one here is raging jobs at the workplaces of the maritime cluster, so that we might have a reverse operation? As you know, there's no shame in turning around.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e681	When the Government presented the shipping message, it received a lot of honor. What one of today's debates focuses on is something that will go further than 2006, such as ferry companies, which are not allowed to continue the net pay system in the same way as today. At the same time, however, the government has also taken a further look and turned the searchlight on a model of competence, which gives some better arrangements than today. I thought the debate would be a little one-sided when you just focus on this. So there is over $1 billion in support – a record high level – and the Government will continue to have the support level at this level here, and one will focus on providing the net pay scheme for certification-related settings in NOR and certificate-recovery in NIS. It has also been assumed that the other seafarers in the offshore section of NOR should be covered by the net pay scheme. A model that prioritizes competence may lead to an increase in the flagging of NIS, while being forward-looking and adapting the competitive situation. So I think it's important that a non-blackpainting situation here. We see a signal that some people announce flagging out, but I think the government will have an offensive policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e688	Today, the Government and the Advance Party obtain a number of figures to cover the damage caused by storms to forests from the natural damage system to normal insurance, despite the fact that the only player in this private market says that it is obvious that it is not possible to put in place a private scheme from 1 January 2005. The government party has noticed that Skogbrand has said that this is not possible, but still thinks that this must be done. Then I wonder: Has the representative Molvær Grimstad found that it is impossible, and that it will not happen? And what will the situation be from 1 January 2005? Otherwise, I noticed that the representative Molvær Grimstad in a reply to the Progress Party was busy with the importance of feeding measures in the fishing industry, such as feeding supplements. Then I wonder: How important is this really to the Christian People's Party? These funds are actually halved in the last two years. Is this just a little bit important, or is this very important for the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e698	When there is insurance for storm damage, the industry has known about this for half a year, so here it might also be on purpose to get a solution, and that one at the longest hopes to continue with the system that is today, but one has warned that it will be a change. I expect that the Minister of Agriculture will follow these developments closely in what is happening here. When it comes to the fisheries agreement and the feed additive, the permissions proposed are the same as they were a year ago. We know that the extent of the fisheries agreement has fallen considerably, depending on the needs. But when it comes to the supplements that are proposed on the state budget, I think they are very important. The feed-in premium is a positive and important contribution, especially in the north, to the dissemination of fish resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e705	I sat and listened to the posts of the representative Molvær Grimstad. One would almost think that it was the Christian People's Party that had conducted negotiations with the Government, and not the Advance Party, for her contributions were a single long summary of the improvements that had come into the budget as a result of the budgetary conciliation. I could therefore briefly imagine challenging the representative to spend a minute telling what the Christian People's Party is pleased with in the government's budget proposal, which, after all, the Christian People's Party is supposed to defend here, and not the budgetary agreement that the Progress Party has negotiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e715	I thought it was voiced by the Center Party to give me the opportunity to talk more about the government's policy, because I do more than like it. The government's proposal for a budget within the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Fisheries think I am actually an offensive and good budget. I also pointed that out in my article. Some minor adjustments have been made, but very little in relation to the total frame. It is gratifying that even more people, even those from SV, see that the Innovation Norway framework seems acceptable, and that there may be scope for doing something within this framework. I have good faith that we can be involved in raising business policy further forward, and I'm excited about how the Center Party is saying further developments in the policy here, because there are a lot of areas where a search for closer cooperation with the Workers' Party and SV, also in the field of research and development. Another thing, which has also come in, is CARE, guarantee schemes for shipyards, which is an important matter. I don't have more speaking time, but I'd like to do more if the representative, Enoxen, wants to give me another chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e724	The representative of Molvær Grimstad said in a reply to Lodve Solholm that they painted black in relation to shipping. But it's realistic to say that we're now in a weathering phase, that shows all the studies. European Maritime Benchmark, for example, says that growth will now be out in Europe, and that many high-tech companies need to move out departments, such as Kongsberg, etc., which are known from Norway, to be where the decisions are taken and the investments take place. There are two areas: the net pay system is one thing, but many of the central shipping companies that are now moving out have talked about the wealth tax. Here the shipping companies have been an exponent of private ownership based on Norwegian localization. What do you have to say there? And what do you have to say about the tonnage tax scheme? We also need a recruit. What is serious now is that cadets on the NIS ships come from China and the Baltic States. What is the Christian People's Party's answer to how to get Norwegian recruitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e731	It is clear that there are challenges within the industry, but at the same time it is important to see the opportunities that lie there. Compared to the property tax and tonnage tax, it has been taken care of. In the case of taxes on wealth, even more must be done. The government has an offensive policy with regard to this. And then there'll be some groups that aren't happy, but then it's up to you to bring forward the positive that actually exists, even in relation to recruitment. But I want to send back that if the Progress Party's agricultural policy had been implemented, there would have been many farmers who had lost their jobs, and we would have lost many of the happy cows, as Inge Ryan mentioned, I think. The impact of the Progress Party's policy on agriculture, with dramatic cuts, would be dramatic changes and job shortages, many places throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e738	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e741	The Centre shall present a total operating effort of DKK 4.5 billion in addition to the Government's proposals, in the areas of infrastructure, targeted tax relief and improved capital availability. This gives a strong boost to securing and creating jobs across the country. The 2005 alternative budget of the Centre Party, with an offensive industrial policy, increased appropriations for the local government sector and a stronger emphasis on financial policy, will together contribute to the creation of 10,000 new jobs, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics. As a high-cost country, it is necessary to be in the first place in technological development if our business life is to be able to follow in an increasingly tougher international competition. This means that we need to have a good school, we need to have increased efforts on research, we need to strengthen and improve the infrastructure, in order to be able to reduce the distance costs in our long-term country, with difficult access to many places, and not least we need to have better infrastructure within ICT. In addition, we need to have financial conditions that allow municipalities to be an active promoter of economic development, both in terms of having areas at their disposal, to have a short processing period – which is necessary for business to have their business handled in a sensible way – and to have municipal food funds that we know have been an important contribution from municipalities in relation to the smallest establishments. From the government parties we are constantly told that there has been new optimism in business, that low interest rates and stable exchange rates have worked. It's true that low interest rates have been important for the development we've had lately. But it's important to remember that the boom that we had up until a couple to three years ago resulted in high interest rates to dampen the pressure in the economy. The emphasis was placed on the need for monetary policy to regulate demand. In recent years, we have had low economic activity and low interest rates to stimulate growth. So it's not necessarily a sign of a healthy economy that we have low interest rates, but it's a sign that we need to stimulate the economy to create the growth that's going to ensure future jobs. But we have very much a consumption-driven growth, a growth that does not create lasting jobs, but leads to increased consumption of specifically imported goods. This has not led the industry to the blossom that the industry should have had. The Central Party points out in its alternative budget the need for us to focus fiscal policy much more on today’s economic situation than the Government does – to a certain extent at the expense of monetary policy. This will create more permanent jobs, it will create a better public sector, which will be able to provide welfare services, and this will not least lead to municipalities and county councils being able to invest in school, giving us exactly the school to train young people to be good workers and good nutritionists of the future. It will also be possible to invest much more in infrastructure through this reinforced focus on fiscal policy — for example. appropriations for Innovation Norway and for research, which are some of the areas in which the Centre Party has invested heavily in its alternative budget. This is a very necessary effort, which will give us jobs — lasting jobs — in the creative sector, and which does not only involve emphasising consumption, as the Government leads to far too much. There has been a significant focus on the maritime sector in the budgetary position, and that is not without reason. It's an important sector for the nation. Given that we were as late as in our treated maritime message, it would be unnecessary to spend as much space on this in the budgetary position as we have done. Tax competition is basically unhealthy. It is necessary to work towards a common Nordic policy in this area, as a more or less collective committee has instructed the Government. It is true, as pointed out by the government parties, that more money is now being spent than ever on this in relation to the net pay arrangements. But the point is that the countries around us have significantly improved their arrangements in recent years. This has also made it necessary for us to increase these appropriations. So, unfortunately, we're not where we should be, in relation to investing in maintaining a strong maritime sector. The government has failed here. Given the high profile that some government parties in particular have had in opposition, what they do in this area is not good enough. We see flagging out, we see that we have a negative trend in the maritime sector that does not benefit the country in the long term. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Central Party is promoting alone, and those proposals that have not been addressed where the Central Party is a co-sponsor. I think there are some proposals from SV and the Center Party in common that have not been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e764	The representative, Odd Roger Enoxen, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e767	Through the recent debate, the Centre Party has made a few interesting suggestions: a proposal to move the Stortinget to Finnmark one week, another proposal, which was given a lot of space in summer, was the purchase of Norwegian stone to the Opera. It is my claim that here in the country we live not by buying Norwegian, but by selling Norwegian. I assume that the representative Enoch is in agreement with me on the way. We have major problems with market access for Norwegian salmon. Norwegian salmon production is one of the most important industries we have along the coast and in the districts. I want to challenge the representative of Enoxsen on what his recipe is to improve market access for Norwegian salmon.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e776	The problem with the government's policy is that it does not move towards a development in which we live by exporting goods. We are increasingly becoming a country that lives on imported goods, and we are developing a business that imports and provides services based on imported goods more and more. This isn't a happy development. This can be seen from the statistics provided in Nordlys on unemployment in part of our major export municipalities on 7 December. It is a responsibility for all of us to ensure that we have good market access to our main country. During the period covered by the EEA Agreement, the value of exports of Norwegian fish has increased from approx. 20 billion to about 30 billion kroner. The main part of this increase goes to non-EU countries. That's where the new big markets come from. Of course, EU countries will continue to be our largest and most important markets in the future, but it is important to focus on good trade agreements with countries outside the EU. And it is important to achieve the best possible agreements with the EU, in order to ensure market access for the fishing industry, including:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e783	The centre party yesterday presented a proposal for a policy on nutrition, among other things. Finnland where ‘all vessel groups fishing in the Norwegian fishing zone of the Barents Sea shall deliver at least 20 pst. of its share of the fishing industry in Finnmark’ — well aware that Norwegian fishing vessels’ landings in North Norway have increased from 58,3 pst, mainly cod, hay and seich. in 1990 to 66 p.m. in 2003. I do not understand why the Center Party requires at least 20 pst. of cod species to be landed in North Norway when 66 pst. They're already landing there. I can also tell the representative of Enoxsen that 20.8 pst. of which this will actually be landed in Finnmark. Even in the case of pelagic fish, the landings have now reached 20 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e791	The figures that Lodve Solholm refers to in relation to landing are quite correct, but that is not the point of the proposal of the Central Party. The point of the Center Party's proposal is to strengthen the industry in Finnmark and ensure that at least 20 pst. of the landings entering this part of the country for industrial purposes. In recent years, we've had a massive turnaround from deliveries of fresh fish to frozen fish, from frozen fish to frozen fish, and thus becoming a global product, making it pay to transport the fish from Finnmark to China to get its fillet cut off, simply because the transport costs are lower than the extra cost given the salary we have in Norway. An approach that implies that everyone must be involved and take on a social responsibility to maintain the many communities we have in this country, by the fact that part of the quantities landed, actually going to industry, will be involved and strengthen the fishing industry. This will lead to the strengthening of local communities and thus also to the possibility of positive developments on land.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e798	This is the last time the representative Odd Roger Enoksen is in a budget debate here. He's going to step out of the Storing. We in SV use the opportunity to thank Odd Roger Enoksen for the excellent job he has done for District Norway. In our opinion, he has been one of the most important politicians in Norwegian district policy. Then it's natural for me to ask Odd Roger Enoksen if he's optimistic about the business community in District Norway in the future, when after many years of working with district policy and industrial policy, he's going to step out of the Stortinget. Is there an optimistic Enoch coming out of the Storting? Or is it a pessimistic Enoch?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e805	Yeah, it was a nice line that Odd Roger Enoksen is going to have to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e808	You could say that. Thank you very much for your words! If it's the last time, it'll show up. Despite my 50th birthday, I'm still a relatively young man, so Inge Ryan won't take anything for granted in that way. Yeah, I'm definitely optimistic on behalf of District Norway. We know that many of the resources on which the country will base its income in the future can be found in District Norway. Not least we find them off our coast. This calls for an offensive commitment to an active and targeted industrial policy, which can help us reverse the trend of centralisation that we have seen in recent years and which has defused many communities out in District Norway. When I say I'm optimistic, it's because I have the hope that, after the 2005 elections, we will have a political majority who will see that it is necessary to be much more focused and active than what this government has done with its business-neutral policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e817	Like many of us, party leader Åslaug Haga has also been in Finnmark. She came back with a number of proposals that she thought could help improve the situation for some communities. I think that's positive. It's positive with creativity and imagination, and it's obviously also necessary, because in parts of Finnmark you wear out. One must, of course, consider these proposals. I guess they're all not as well thought out. I will not spend so much time on it, but one proposal I particularly miss. It is the proposal that the Stortinget with the whole support apparatus should go to Finnmark for one week. One thing is the cost, something else is the signal effect. There is a need to assess targeted actions in Finnmark. We have to take that seriously. There is a need for both thoughtful, serious and targeted action. My two questions to Odd Roger Enoxen are as follows: Does Odd Roger Enoksen think that the proposal to move out The Storting to Finnmark is targeted? And does he think that this proposal is serious?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e826	The last one should be a completely unnecessary question. I don't know if the Christian People's Party has it in making proposals that aren't "serious" but the Center Party doesn't. Of course, the proposal is serious. We sincerely believe that Finnmark, in the situation and many of the municipalities there are now, requires extra attention from Stortinget. The costs of the Storting journey to Finnmark for one week, both in order to show the necessary attention and not least in order to have a thorough dialogue with the population and insight into the challenges facing Finnmark, will be insignificant in relation to the costs that society incurs by having a Finnmark state that is struggling, in the same way that many of the municipalities up there are doing it today. So the answer to this question is to the very highest degree: the proposal is targeted to those degrees, and the proposal is serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e835	By the end of the day, it might be good to refer to the Constitution and its legends about where the Storting may gather in peacetime. What is more, my question has to do with the market price. I would like to have clarity in that from Mr. Enoxen's side. Is the market price in North Norway applicable? If we say that a species of fish is offered for sale, a company in Finnmark will pay NOK 6 and a company in Hitra will pay NOK 6.50. Does that mean that the fishermen have to sell the fish for NOK 6 because the market price in North Norway is NOK 6? Or does that mean that companies in Finnmark have to increase the price to $6.50 because it's the market price in total in Norway? Here we might need to get a definition of what is added to the'market price'.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e844	Finally, the starting point is, of course, that deliveries are to be made at market prices. The current situation is that there is not only a lack of payment capacity that makes the Finnish industry struggling to obtain raw material, but also to a significant extent that the raw material is simply not available because it goes either to direct export, transit, frozen form, or is sent to other parts of the country. The starting point is the market price. But at the same time, I have to say that if there is a need to look at other schemes to take care of the Finnmark industry – schemes that go beyond this and that do not necessarily have to be burdened on fishermen – I am not a stranger to look at such schemes that can strengthen the Finnmark industry. As far as the relationship with the Constitution is concerned, of course, it has not been the opinion of the Central Party that the Storting should travel to Finnmark and make decisions. There's nothing in the Constitution that prevents the Storting from traveling to Finnmark in a group if you want to. Something else is moving out the Storting for a week and sitting in Finnmark and making decisions, as we do in this room. It has no purpose. The aim is to engage in dialogue with the population of Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e853	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e856	The government has submitted a budget that will ensure safe food for consumers and strengthen the focus on value creation and industrial development throughout the whole value chain for agriculture and forestry. I would like to begin by congratulating the Committee on the good and thorough work it has done on the budget, and I note that there is a broad consensus on agricultural and food policy. It is positive that the Committee supports the Government's efforts to ensure the scope of action for a continued active agricultural policy by influencing the processes and negotiations in the WTO, agreements with the EU and other international work. This is the first budget for the new Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The name change makes it visible that the government is now going to see food policy in a broader sense. A key element of the Government's food policy is that food is safe and felt safe. In addition to innovation, diversity and value creation, a healthy diet and a long-term food supply are important areas of action in food policy. As Minister of Agriculture and Food, I have an ambition to strengthen our position as a mat nation. Food policy shall also contribute to raising quality, good traditions and food diversity. Consumers want products with history, tradition and clear origins. I believe that there is a great untapped potential for the sale of a variety of Norwegian special products both nationally and internationally. The establishment of the Food Authority has been successful, but there have been some challenges at startup. The current efficiency in food management benefits users through a reduction in the level of fees and charges. In addition, the charging and charging system shall be reviewed, including: to see if the device is such that it is effective in relation to the development of nutrition. I emphasise that the Food Safety Authority now needs to develop documentation systems to provide a good basis for assessing revenue and expenditure in the different areas of supervision and control. Adequate access to veterinary services is also important from an economic point of view. It is the municipalities that are the closest to assessing citizens’ needs and current actions in this area. I would like to work to find a solution with regard to the disagreements we have with the Norwegian veterinary association on clinical veterinary watch within the framework of this budgetary position and the budget decision of the Stortinge. If this is possible, I will come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a comprehensive solution whereby municipalities are responsible for the necessary measures for access on a daily basis to veterinary services. The profitability of production provides the basis for keeping the agricultural areas in operation. To meet the national and international challenges, structural changes in agriculture are necessary which contribute to more cost-effective agricultural production. However, changes in the production structure are a process that requires both time and investment, and business operators must be given the opportunity to meet these developments. There is a significant value creation in agriculture, even outside the scope of the agricultural agreement. Many have succeeded in developing new business areas with a background in agriculture and rural resources. Agriculture has become more than just traditional food production. Cooperation with other sectors, such as the tourism sector, the education, health and social sectors and the energy sector, will be important areas of activity for producers who want to develop goods and services that draw more from the market. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food is responsible for the Inland 2010 development project within the Government's Innovation Initiative. The deployment of different individual projects in the fields of bioenergy, agro-tourism, land-based resources and biotechnology shall contribute to changes in the trend of innovation-related domestic development. I want the municipalities to be active participants with greater influence in agricultural policy. The municipalities are the central actors in the development of the future District Norway. The key to living areas with good and modern living conditions lies in a closer link between agricultural policy and other food, resource and environmental policies. National policies need to be increasingly complemented and complemented by local and regional policies. The Ministry proposes a reinforced commitment to the conservation of important cultural landscapes and the protection of cultivated and arable land. Dialogue with municipalities on local responsibilities in the management of agricultural land will be important. We must prevent the increasing re-growth of valuable cultural land and the decay of the farm and seating environment. This makes the cultural landscape less attractive for recreation, housing and tourism. Purification is a small industry on a national scale, but in both a Sami and a local context it is of great importance, economic, employment and cultural importance. Purification is an important part of the material basis for Sami culture. In the last decades, the number of reindeer in Finnmark has increased considerably. I see with great concern the high number of pure ones that are now in parts of Finnmark. Sustainable reindeer management, as the Committee stresses, requires that the number of clean is balanced with the grazing basis. In the further work, I would like to assume that a unanimous committee stresses the urgent need to reduce the number of pure persons and that the Committee supports the necessary measures to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e886	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e890	I can agree with the Council of State that there is a lot of exciting happening in Norwegian agriculture, the fact that the trend in the number of use is worrying, because it goes down rapidly. Still, it's a lot positive. Governments were a little concerned about this with local and regional policies. In the opinion of the Committee, we have a comment from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, which we point to the forestry policy. We want the Council of State to be able to say a little about a comprehensive forestry policy in the context of the 2006 budget. It's a very worrying little high. It's even more worrying how little planting there is. That not everything can be as it has been before, we can agree. The new forest owners may behave a little differently than those who have been. in relation to whether it is the maximum they wish to engage in or whether they wish to engage in hunting and obtain income from it. I don't understand why it's not possible for the Council of States to look at the whole thing, because this means a lot for both employment and industry in some parts of the country. Is it possible to pursue local and regional forest policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e901	The government has a comprehensive and long-term forestry policy, but it is also modern and forward-looking. One must not see it so that it is not possible to connect this. I'll draw out some items. The first is the three programmes. There is an increased investment from the Government, which emphasises that we need to go from being a unilateral commodity supplier with falling prices to becoming a whole chain supplier with new products that can be delivered to growing markets. It is about the three programmes, and it is also about the long term. This week I had the pleasure of visiting NTNU and seeing the results of the wood programme, which shows that there are now many people who are taking training, researching and operating in the wood field to produce new products. It's not short term, it's complete. Bioenergy is another area where we now see results. We see that there are a lot of new plants being built. Finding new markets is a long-term and good investment for forestry. And above all, the contribution to forest culture has been phased out. A tax deduction system is in place to allow the state to take money out of the treasury when it is planted, without being subject to the annual uncertainty represented by the budgetary procedure. It's long-term.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e912	There has been some positive progress in agricultural policy under Lars Sponheim, who has received the subsidiary support of the Progress Party, but we think it is going far too slowly. We still have some unpopular records in Norway. We have Europe's highest food prices, actually higher than those they have in Iceland. We have the highest transfers per. farmer, after Switzerland, and we have many dissatisfied farmers. With regard to the price development of agricultural products, we see that, after halving the food tax on 1 July 2001, it has been around. 50 pst. higher than the general price trend. I fully agree with the Council of State that we are now having these margin surveys carried out to see which stages of the food chain have increased their prices the most. But when we get the results, and they are now relatively fast, will the Council of State only observe and note this if there are any in this chain who have increased the margins disproportionately? Or will he if there's no competition in these terms, for example. in the context of market organisations, introduce competition law there, so that we can do what we can, based on Norwegian production in climatically difficult areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e921	Let me first say that it is nice that Hedstrom also thinks that some positive things are happening in agricultural and food policy. He's right about that. It happens very much exciting and positive around. I think it's important that we all in this room rejoice because there has been such broad agreement from most parties to base the policy on this. There are probably some things that you can raise, and perhaps in an international perspective have some fun with, sizes of Norwegian agricultural policy, but it makes no sense if you don't raise up and look at the very difficult conditions we have for farming in Norway. If one weighs this up against another, I think we dare say that over time, with changing governments, we have developed an agricultural policy and a vitality in the agricultural countryside in Norway that hardly has to find other places in the modern world. So it's that way that we have to fight all the time to get better. It's about the margin poll. When it's on the table, and we might have to know that here's what can be done differently, we're willing to turn on all the stones to try to push all the margins we can, given that we're still going to have agriculture and housing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e930	Since it was a theme on which the Council of State came little into its article, I could imagine challenging him on this: organic production and translation have slowed down in Norway. Does the Council of State believe that it is possible to reach the 10 pst target at today's speed? So I could think of challenging the Council of State when it concerns the change in the law on natural damage. The only player in this market, the company Skogbrand, has said that they are willing to find an insurance scheme to cover storm damage on a forest, but they have said very clearly that to do so they need time to carefully assess the risks and premium needs in relation to what system the state would have to keep in force. They have said very clearly that it is not possible, even if they want to, to set up a system from 1 January 2005. The Council of State shall be joined by the Party of Advancement to this amendment to the Act of Odelstinget on Tuesday. But what does the Council of State do if there is no market offer on 1 January 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e939	First, organic farming, development and achievement of the 2010 targets. That's how – and the Storting is orientated about it – we had added 3.7 pst at the end of last year, i.e. one year ago. of the agricultural area in Norway to the ecological area, and we know that the measure is 10 pst. in 2010. Now we're going to get new figures for 2005 in the new year, but these days we've got preliminary figures in the Ministry of Agriculture that show a very happy development. This indicates that the figures will be between 1.3 and 1.5 pst. increase. That means there's a great probability that in the new year we can enjoy getting up to 5 pst. It's a development that makes us have a lot of probability and so that to achieve the goal of 10 pst. So the policy works in this area. I like to share with all the parties in Stortinget who have helped to create the basis for such a right and important policy. As far as the Law on Natural Damage is concerned, we assume that when we want to facilitate a private insurance offer from the turn of the year, the parties will ensure that this happens, because their customers will be earned, and they want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e946	A letter from the Food Authority to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, dated 3 December of this year, shows that estimates have been made to show that the income target is likely to be 75 million. kr of plant protection products will be reached in 2005, without the adjustment that Stortinget has now adopted in the charging system. Food surveillance is behind the assessments made in this context. There are a number of unfortunate consequences of constantly changing the system and increasing the level of charges, among others. that this is unlikely to contribute to further risk reduction, as foreseen in the reduction risk plan for the use of plant protection products. The recommendations made here by the Food Safety Authority are fully in line with the views of the Centre Party, namely that no adjustments are made to the environmental tax system for 2005. I should have liked to have had the Minister of Agriculture's view of the letter sent by the Food Safety Authority to the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e955	Let me start by saying that, in one area, we get higher incomes from the Treasury than what we've been thinking about, we should probably enjoy, and in particular, a representative of a party that is very happy to spend money on the expenditure side. I find it a little difficult to see the big problem with it when we know that this tax regime for pesticides also helps individuals to adapt to the use of pesticides and to use more ‘environmentally favourable’ pesticides, whether they are allowed to use such a word, to an extent that also serves the environment. This is an area that shows that it is possible to control the behaviour of users through a tax regime that allows us both to meet the income needs of the state and to guide the development in a direction that is more environmentally friendly. Fees on pesticides are a success. That shows the results. But we want to get even further, and I wonder if you make this an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e962	The Council of State was very concerned about the supervision of food and the role it has. And, as he says, most people end up with it. In the present nation there is a look for meat, where there is disagreement as to whether meat that has salmonella can be treated and sold on the Norwegian market. We have discussed this a bit in the Workers' Party, and we believe that the Food Authority is responsible here. My question to the Council of State is, how does he view that problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e971	Fortunately, there are many questions where a politician should not have the decisive word. We have professionals for that. I feel it's important – it's my job as a government council and the Grand Council's task as a rule maker – to create a framework, so professionals can use their profession and we can achieve common societal goals. Fortunately, in this area, we have a very good and well-worked code, which is also part of an international code. I trust that these questions are handled by the Food Safety Authority in a way that makes the decisions to be taken within the framework of the legislation and the advice to be given professionally responsible. We cannot make this political question about what is safe and not safe. I would add, however, that I believe that in addition to what can only be measured as a subject and made measurable in laboratories, it is important to operate with a safety margin that makes people also feel safe about food. We buy food and eat food – I had almost said with more than just my head and mouth. We also use the heart and the feeling that this is right for us to do. It is an issue which is entirely real and which must be included in the framework of this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e983	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e987	In numerous meetings and conferences, the government has told Norwegian industry that Norway will become one of the world’s most innovative countries. The vision of the Government is as follows: ‘Norway shall be one of the world’s most innovative countries in which businesses and people with progressive creativity have good opportunities to develop profitable activities. In key areas, Norway shall be in close international knowledge, technology and value creation.» Nice! But how is one going to reach this vision? In fact, they have put forward a plan. So did Egon in the Olsen band, and I hope the government succeeds better than he has done with his plans. The plan of the Government is called From Idea to Value. When one reads this, it's mostly about playing the ball over to business. This became even clearer to me when I heard the Minister of Industry's speech during the Design Day a few days ago, where he among other things. said that he was most pleased with the industries that did not need subsidies and support — a strange opinion of a Council of State responsible for industrial policy in Norway. Some of the members of the Government are now setting up programs around the country where the purpose is to pick out already successful businesses, or lighthouses, as they are called, that can be used as examples for others for how to establish successful businesses. One of these programmes that is currently under way is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in India in 2010, which, incidentally, has a very good name, also mentioned in its intervention. This was the theme of a travel conference at Hamar last week, where I was present. The travel life in Hedmark was positive to Inland 2010, and that has reason to do so. But after the contribution from the political director of the department, I understood that there was little money to be recovered from the government. Nor did I find anything in the budget of the Minister of Agriculture when I made it easy there. Then it is easy to have good ideas, when others have to pay for them. In dealing with this budget, we have recorded that the government parties have not wanted to earmark funds. This is clearly seen in the comments and appropriations for Innovation Norway. It is easy to look at entry 71, where one finds both internationalisation, profiling and innovation programmes under the same heading. A small description of a possible distribution is to be found in the text of this entry, but the government parties leave all policies in this area to the Government with the remark that: ‘The government has proposed to cancel the designation to make the most of scarce resources efficiently and independently of industry’. In other words, the department that is going to prioritize the use of money is not we here at Stortinget. In addition, they themselves admit that there are scarce resources involved. Innovation Norway is now established and largely in place, and I am optimistic on their behalf. But I agree with the government parties that they have scarce resources, both for travel and for the innovation programmes. I went to Design Day at the beginning of my article. It's impressive how some Norwegian companies have gotten involved in design, and more people are thinking about design. But there are still too few newcomers on this pattern of Norwegian design. There are several companies that could benefit from the knowledge of the Norwegian Design Council. It is interesting to note that the Government has followed Finland’s example and proclaimed 2005 as a year of design. Together with the fact that the Norwegian Design Council has moved into new premises, which we hope can be used creatively by Norwegian companies and design environments, this will hopefully give design another boost. What concerns, however, is the economy. In fact, the government has granted 4 million. kr more than last year, but it's not much to make years of design. Finally, the key is my seed fund. It's great that the Government has created new nationwide funds. Even better is that Stavanger was included by Stortinget. But it's sad that Tromsø didn't get a majority. The problems surrounding the regional seed funds concern us. Now people are starting to get impatient and worried about everything that's been going back and forth. The four district schemes have not yet been implemented, and it seems that the local funding communities have little faith in the schemes. What we are hearing is that the funds are too large, they are embracing too much territory and should be split up. We in the Workers' Party have not been the architect of these funds, and since we have not been in the Council's office and the drawing, we have remained calm in this matter, until now. But now we think it's time to clean this up. We have received many requests for this. We'll ask the architects to look again at the drawings. Perhaps the houses are too large, and there are no doors to get through.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1025	Norwegian business is doing well. The value of Norwegian exports is increasing. Industrial investment is gaining ground. Value creation per the population is among the highest in the world. Unemployment is falling and is low compared to most other European countries. At the same time, Norwegian employment rates are among the highest in the world. This is an important debate. After all, it is the total value creation in the country that determines the level of wealth and well-being in Norway. Without a business policy with a continuous focus on value creation, we will not be able to preserve and further develop today's welfare society. Despite a generally positive picture of the Norwegian economy, we have challenges both in the short and long term. Globalisation and internationalisation of the Norwegian economy must be an important premise for the formulation of industrial policy and should also be an important element of such a debate. Increased competition from low-cost countries in Eastern Europe and Asia puts particular pressure on labour-intensive production. At the same time, economic growth in these regions opens up new markets for Norwegian business. For example, trade with China increased by 124 pst. in the period 1998–2003, inter alia: in the case of industrial machinery, marine equipment, fish and seafood. It is important to remember that experience suggests that predictable framework conditions are important for the choice of country of localisation. In recent years, the government has provided major improvements to the framework conditions for Norwegian business. Extensive tax reliefs, including: The closure of the investment levy is an economic policy that has brought down the level of interest rates and provided a more adapted crown price, the introduction of the TaxFUNN, the reorganization of Innovation Norway to become more effective, and the simplification and organisation of business are important examples. Norway has unique opportunities, but it also faces crucial challenges. One main challenge is that a high-cost country such as Norway can only be competitive by working smarter. We need to build more knowledge, development and design into products and services so that we can compete on quality and productivity. Therefore, the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade for next year is tailor-made for these challenges. The government is boosting the investment in nutrition research through increased appropriations of 85 million in total. kr from the Ministry of Industry and Trade’s budget to the Norwegian Research Council, Norwegian Space Centre and research and development contracts. This will give more impetus to the funds allocated to research, in the form of new products, new services and jobs. The path from academic idea to commercial success will be easier. The government’s commitment to establishing new, nationwide seed funds is fundamental to providing access to risk capital to commercialise research results and other innovative ideas, which in turn will create new jobs in Norway in industries that also tolerate the Norwegian level of costs. Government rates on Innovation Norway. In the budget, there is increased focus on programmes for the profiling of travel, internationalisation, development of competences and networking. Among other things, we have proposed an increase in the funding for the Innovation Norway Travel Life Programme by 13 million. kr, and I'm glad that the committee and the Stortinget also seem to join this. The Government also wishes to highlight the importance of being able to use good Norwegian design in the marketing of Norwegian products. That is why we are increasing the allocation to design, inter alia. to place 2005 on the market as an official Norwegian design year. The government is also intensifying efforts at simplification. Enterprises shall spend more time on production and development and less time completing forms. We continue to expand AltInn, which is a common electronic reporting channel for the transmission of data from traders to public agencies. The Government will also contribute to increased order availability for Norwegian shipyards. It goes better along our coast. That is why we are also proposing in the 2005 state budget to introduce a separate building loan guarantee scheme for the shipbuilding industry with a framework of DKK 2.5 billion. Enterprise policy must be geared towards innovation and innovation. It is a good budget that is adopted in relation to continuing good economic development in the years to come in Norway in order to reduce unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1059	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1062	I've been to the KNUS conference, and I've been to the design conference. There was also the Council of State, and both places he said: I am most happy in the industries that do not need subsidies. I would like a clarification of what the Council of State means by that statement. That's the first one. Then the budget says that this year's objective is to establish the four new district-based seed funds. In his speech today, Mr Ryan said that he expects the regional seed funds to be launched in the new year. It's been almost a year since this was adopted in Stortinget. Is the Government following up on SV's expectations?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1071	100 years ago Norway was one of the poorest countries in Europe. We have made Norway one of the best countries in the world through a deliberate policy. We have one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe, and it's growth in the Norwegian economy. The Norwegian economy is growing by over 3 pst. in the current year. The reason we've got a robust welfare community is because we have a business that's going well and that pays taxes and taxes. That's the business we're going to live from – not the business that's going to live on subsidies and public support, but the business that's going to pay taxes and taxes and also finance our welfare community and create jobs. It is quite right that I have repeatedly, including at the conferences attended by the representative, stressed that in the future we will need the robust, resilient companies to ensure that Norway will be one of the best countries in the world in 10, 20 and 30 years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1083	In the wake of the fact that parts of shipping are now losing foothold in Norway, the Council of State has made some unfortunate statements to which an overall maritime environment through the Maritime Forum has been skeptical. First of all, he puts travel businesses on land up against the operations of the ferry companies in the north. Secondly, he withdraws profitability as a reason for terminating the net pay scheme. The fact is that these companies have been loyal to Norway. If they had previously flagged out, e.g. to Sweden and Denmark, they would have legal, shy net pay schemes, much better than those we practice in Norway. They would get a lower property tax and a tonnage tax mechanism that is far better than the one we practice here. What would have happened then is that we would have lost thousands of jobs on these ferries, and the competitive conditions would have been the same for the tourism industry. How does this relate? What is the Council of State's reasoning?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1092	In the budget we are going through in cooperation with the Progress Party here today, the Government has proposed to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian shipping by reducing the level of taxes and charges for Norwegian shipping companies, in order to make them more competitive. We have also, in relation to the maritime industry in general, helped to reintroduce the building loan guarantee, as I mentioned in my main contribution, with DKK 2.5 billion, which ensures our shipyards along the coast. We are now going to look at the overall level of taxation to which the entire shipping industry has to deal. The Norwegian shipping industry is important. In the case of marine equipment, Norway exports maritime equipment for over 30 billion DKK per year, such as dynamic positioning, cranes and other equipment. In the case of net pay arrangements for the passenger crew on board ferries, we have chosen to transfer those resources to those subject to certification with a maritime background.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1101	One year ago, in Stortinget, we adopted a seed scheme with four seed funds for underprivileged areas. This has also been mentioned by several representatives here today. We have recorded that in the year that has passed, something has gone wrong. It's been a bit back and forth. I have had the pleasure of having a good dialogue with the Council of State, but I would like him to confirm from the Spokesman's Chair that this is now on the verge, and that it is expected that this will come up relatively quickly in the New Year, and that he is in charge of the process ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1108	As I also said in my main post, I have great faith in seed resources, and that they will help commercialise both research results and other activities around the country at an early stage. The district-oriented seed funds were one of the first things I went in and looked at, and I took note that the conditions attached to these were not good enough to get them realized. Therefore, the Stortinget has on its table proposals from the Government to enter into an administrative grant. We are reducing the level of interest rates, which these district seed funds have to deal with, and we are also moving in heavier by the state in relation to the proportion that you have. We have done this in a good dialogue with SV as well, and I have good faith that we will get to this. We need to keep up with the conditions we have now set, and we rely on private actors to enter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1117	I want to go back a little bit to the Norwegian fishing industry, which is not just the Minister for Fisheries. Banks are reluctant to grant credit, both for the purchase of fish and, in particular, for investment, because of the situation in which parts of the Norwegian fishing industry are located. The guarantee system has been abolished and a new technology has not been put into operation. No later than Tuesday, Nordly had a statement saying, "Norway won't have the supermachine." ‘While competitors are using new Norwegian technology that can revolutionise fillet processing, Norwegian companies are weighing off.’ The head of Innovation Norway in Finnmark says in the same statement that he is "Save the machinery for the purchase of animals for hard-pressed fishing industries". And it continues: “It’s an expensive investment,” says Larsen, who admits that both Iceland and Canada can achieve results if the fileting machine is working properly.” “If the machine is successful, the competitors are in front of us,” he says. This means that Norway is losing both low-cost and willing to use new technologies. My question is: does the Minister of Industry see the need to do something to strengthen the competitiveness of the Norwegian fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1142	The Minister for Fisheries has on many occasions underlined the need to also have a fisheries policy that adds to migration, innovation and innovation. The examples to which the representative of Enoxsen refers also confirm that the market is asking for full-year fishing production. There is probably more restraint in relation to frozen products than before, and we also need to be willing to adapt the Norwegian fishing industry to the requirements of the markets. Here I believe that the instrument should be an active actor. A major problem has been that there has been overcapacity over time, and it cannot help the innovation apparatus to increase. It has to be adapted to actual conditions. In this context, we must also bear in mind that the fishing industry is a robust industry, which accounts for more than DKK 30 billion of the country's export income. It's not a subsidy industry. It is a surplus industry and an important industry for the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1151	In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we proposed that Tromsø should also receive a nationwide seed fund, like the three other university cities proposed by the Government. Stavanger has also come in. The argument against the government parties was that Tromsø was covered by a district-oriented seed fund that might come. When we know the problems, especially in Finnmark, but also in a number of other municipalities in the north, shouldn't we have given priority to the regional seedlings to the underprivileged areas, as we have said, and set up our own nationwide fund for Tromsø, so that all our university cities had a nationwide fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1158	The need for seed funds has been an important element of the debate on the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade for several years. The government has now proposed that there should be a seed fund of over DKK 1 billion for the university cities Trondheim, Bergen and Oslo, and we have added Stavanger on the initiative of the Progress Party. Should we not be glad that this is now being realized? The government states that, of course, some of the district - directed seedlings become. It's been decided by the Storting. The money is there, provided, of course, that it also comes in private who are willing to raise capital. It's not the state that has to pay all these seed funds. The Seed Funds are district-oriented, and also accessible to Tromsø and all of North Norway, which they are not for the other university cities. That is why we have said that this should be the starting point. I think making this into a debate about just where the seed funds haven't come, when they're really there, is a little bit peculiar and a little bit rusty.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1167	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1170	I have to fish for myself, as the representative Ryan has taken on board the general industrial policy and agricultural policy of the SV. But first, I would like to comment on the amendment of the Law on Natural Damage, since I am the case spokesman for both the budget chapter and the motion for a resolution, and because the Committee agrees that we are taking this debate in connection with this debate and not in Odelstinget. So the government gets multiple numbers together with the Progress Party for the proposal that storm damage to forests should be transferred from the state's natural damage regime to general insurance. I have to say that I perceive it so that the contracting parties believe that the Progress Party had no real choice in relation to the amendment of the law, because of the budget agreement. I don't get it, because this is an estimate of the budget, and here the government party should have given the Progress Party a little more space for action. Even less do I understand the ministry's handling of this matter, and I don't understand that the plurality has not been the least willing to listen to the forest industry and the company Skogbrand. That the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party will not feed anything well, we understood a few years ago. But that they put the finance industry, in this context the only insurance player on this market, Skogbrand, in such a squeeze, I don't understand. Why won't the majority of Stortinget listen to the clear message: It's impossible to set up a scheme from New Year's Eve! It can't be done, even if Skogbrand wants it. I am disappointed that the Department is supported by a number of speakers on this issue. But I think it's a little fascinating to see how this Right-dominated government is going on. In order to finance tax credits, they are constantly finding new burdens on business, such as changes in the Natural Damage Act. In the fisheries industry, we see this clearly: now, fishermen have to pay an inspection fee, without any new control measures being taken, without any improvement in control. The unemployment rate in my municipality is 7 pst. Bø lies in second place in Nordland. First comes Værøy. Then we'll find the Øksnes and the fourth place Flakstad. They are all four fishing municipalities, like the municipalities of Finnmark. Finnmark has the highest unemployment rate in the country, with 6 pst., where the municipalities of Hasvik, Vardø, Lebesby and Loppa top statistics, all with unemployment rates of over 10 pst. Liberalization has its price, and that price is the cost of coastal communities. This government offers fishing industries one thing: extra fees. The fisheries agreement has been terminated and the fishing budget has been reduced to a minimum. This government does not come up with anything that could stimulate positive nutrient development in fisheries. In the alternative budget, SV is committed to the fishing industry. We're funding our own idea of a value creation program for the fishing industry. We are using more nutrition measures in the fishing industry, such as lineage centres and guidance supplements. It may seem ridiculous to someone who does not know the fishing industry. But have been visiting some coastal communities, knowing how important a few million dollars for these measures are. We have reduced the fees to the fishing industry by a total of 75 million. NOK, plus 40 million. kr i total reduction in food charges. For SV, a resilient storage of resources is an absolute requirement. Disclosures of drafts, transhipments and various forms of illegal fishing have focused on environmental crime and financial crime in the fishing industry. But this government keeps passive. No more actions will be taken. One should figure out again. We want to take action against crime in the fishing industry. We're going to spend 100 million dollars. kr more on the Coast Guard to achieve full sailing capacity, and we finance 20 additional inspectors at the Directorate of Fisheries. The State budget is still an important instrument to stimulate the development of the fishing industry. In today's collapse, we see clear road choices. The government is supported by the Progress Party to apply new taxes to the industry, and we red-green offer the industry carrots for development and a completely necessary conversion of an industry that competes in a global market. Then we're going to have in mind that a lot of the fisheries policy is not decided in the state budget, but in other places. Debates on structure, eternal rights and different forms of quota purchases that look a little bit slick, we get to take different places. SV is eagerly waiting for the big news about marine value creation, which we really hope we'll be able to deal with before the collapse option in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1196	Much is positive in Norwegian fisheries policy, but of course there are also many challenges – significant challenges, I would say. For my part, I have recently met fishermen both from the West and from Finnmark, and they give quite clear feedback, as fishermen like to do. They have been particularly concerned with one aspect: economic policy, perhaps surprisingly, as the political debate is very much about other instruments. They said that if the interest rate had not now stabilised on the low level that is now, many of the fish farms and fishermen would have been bankrupt. There have been tough times in some of the fisheries and fishing has failed. It happens from time to time in the fisheries, as we know. But that means that the government's policy of working at a stable low interest rate, a low dollar rate and a price development under control is not empty rhetoric, but rigid realities that mean much to employment in fisheries. It is therefore important that the economic policy of the Government be continued. In addition, it is necessary to invest more in research and development, and we are happy in the Christian People's Party for the effort that lies within the budget of the year. I also hope that the Government will now succeed in bringing marine research into the 7th EU Framework Programme. There is also an exciting trend in aquaculture. Not least in the case of cod in the farm, this looks very promising. I refer to the full-scale breeding program that takes place on Kraknes outside Tromsø in that context. Finnmark is an exciting state with interesting possibilities in the future. For my part, I choose to be optimistic about developments in Finnmark for the future, because I think it is possible to find a sustainable solution and development for Finnmark that combines traditional fishing and the resources existing in the Barents Sea with targeted investment in oil and gas. Both in the Alta region and in the Hammerfest region, there is now a very positive development, and there is optimism in business. We also see that this is important for the settlement. But in East Finland, unfortunately, more communities are struggling. This means that we should avoid the wording that has also been left in this debate, where one refers to the so-called difficult situation in Finnmark. It's not a comprehensive description of what's actually happening there. But the challenge for us is to keep this state together, so that we don't get an unfortunate split between coast and inland and between West Finland and East Finland. It might be about to happen. I refer then to the difficult situation in Vardø. It is necessary that we adopt exceptional measures to address the serious situation of this community. Fishing in the Barents Sea has been the very basis for the settlement in Vardø. I think it still has to be possible to rely on that. At the same time, we also see that, as the oil industry moves east, Vardø will also have opportunities to provide more stable future jobs in the city. But it will take a few years, and in the meantime it is necessary that we go into realistic and forward-looking projects that can remedy the difficult situation that we are now seeing. Norway is one of the world's largest shipping nations, and we have one of the most complete maritime clusters with different service measures, which means that we have an effective follow-up of boat and ship. Both the net pay scheme and the special shipping tax are important prerequisites for a competitive Norwegian fleet. We allocate a record amount this year to continue the net pay scheme, and the Government has announced that it will follow up the shipping notification by setting up a separate expert selection from the relevant professional community to review all the framework conditions for the shipping business. It is necessary for us to be able to continue an important industry for the coastal population.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1214	I note that neither the government parties nor the Swedish Government in this budgetary procedure are taking a look at what is going on with Norway as a shipping nation, and what is at stake in this respect in relation to Norwegian jobs. It is also strange that a budgetary agreement has been concluded between the Government Parties and the Progress Party where shipping has not been the subject at all. In any case, there is not one word in the budget agreement on this important matter. It is remarkable that a case that is flagged so high by the Progress Party and which affects so many jobs on the sea and land is not part of the current budgetary agreement. In the budget agreement last year, between the government parties and the Workers' Party, the Workers' Party ensured that this important matter was given a central place. I wonder when it's going to happen to the bulk of the population that the maritime sector means an enterprise that involves at least 75 000 jobs and has meaning for every municipality in this country. When we went into this calendar year, Norway was the third largest shipping nation in the world. Today we have a fifth place, and if nothing positive happens, we're still going to crawl down this list. I would like to stress that I am not in charge of making shipowners even richer, but I am talking about keeping Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships and continuing to have deliveries to shipping from suppliers in Norway. My claim is that shipowners will only become even richer in a flagging off, while Norwegian seafarers are put on land and suppliers in Norway lose both supplies and jobs. The Government, in cooperation with the Advance Party, is undertaking a fundamental conversion in fisheries. They want stores and not policies in the fishing industry, and it is now happening in full. The market must take over the control of most things. We have this. e.g. having regard to the fact that the Government Parties and the Advance Party with a pennetrek closed the main agreement for the fishing industry. In addition, we see that the Government's commitment to fisheries-dependent coastal communities is rather absent. Clearly, market forces will again be governed here. An example of this is the lack of commitment in relation to the situation in Vardø. It should be unnecessary for coastal communities with some of the world's richest fishing grounds just outside of Kaia to experience crises of great emancipation and deportation. However, it is essential that the State contribute in several ways in order to benefit from this large resource and in order to create activities in such coastal communities. This cannot be left to the market alone. Had the dramatic situation now affecting Vardø, hit a more urbanized city, the government would have intervened vigorously, but since there is a fishing-dependent little coastal community in Finnmark, there is not much happening. The budget proposes the creation of nationwide seed funds, as has been discussed today. The government says in the budget paper that the target population of the new seed funds will be innovative projects, including projects from universities and higher education institutions. This I think is positive. The government proposes to establish nationwide seed funds in the university cities of Trondheim, Oslo and Bergen, and the budget agreement also includes the new university city from 1 January, Stavanger. We are many who wonder that Tromsø as the only university city is kept out in such a context. Tromsø has status both as a university city and as a big city. What is it that makes the government parties and the Progress Party keep Tromsø outside in such a context? We're recording that this merges into the series of negative answers from the Government regarding the northern part of the country. I just mention some fresh examples in the form of keywords: national radio channel, OL 2014 and the Mandela concert. But the list can be made longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1233	Lack of profitability in the fishing industry is a major problem facing coastal populations. This is a result of the lack of market access to our main market, the EU, overcapacity throughout the value chain and neglected innovation in technology development in the process industry as well as low product development. A profitable fishing industry is good district policy. Lack of profitability and overcapacity have brought some fishers into a lot of leisure, and I understand their concern. Others go well and are characterized by optimism, innovation and belief in the future, and I am happy with them. One-sided misery descriptions and poor-making stigmatise the industry and isolated areas and scare investors and young people away from the coast when we need them the most. The traditional catch focus has been overshadowed by the consumer and market focus for a long time. The government is doing something about this. The development of interest and currency underlying the government's economic policy has turned the industry into a balance sheet in the accounts for 2003 and, hopefully, profits this year, according to figures Fisheries Research presented a short time ago. Nord-Troms and Finnmark, the action area, are in line with strong personal and corporate responses. The county councils have been given state instruments and tasks as business developers in the districts. With the introduction of vessel quotas, the government has guaranteed industry more full-year production. Greater predictability of the distribution between small and large vessels, the so-called Finnmark model, provides security, especially for the smallest fleet. Good coastal and marine fleet structuring measures contribute to reduced capacity and increased profitability. Most stocks are in good condition and give industry renewed optimism. In eastern Finland, the king crab catch was 93 million. extra for the income of the smallest vessels. TAX FUNN has become very attractive. The government has also tightened up the delivery conditions in order to ensure, in particular, Finnmark's trawl raw material, and we enforce strict legislation to prevent boats from leaving Finnmark. Poor quality capping, unforeseeableness and public regulation to balance production and demand do not work as before in a globalised competition for raw materials. A relationship that has also exacerbated industrial overcapacity is the loss of Russian supplies, especially in Finnmark. For example, the Russians landed 19 000 tonnes of cod in Vardø in 1995, while the landings were only 386 tonnes in 2001, and 19 000 tonnes of cod equals two shifts all year round produced in the factory empty in Svartnes ports. It also explains part of the lack of raw material in Vardø, for which many of us are concerned. Continually, parts of the industry are struggling with the population of the coast. The lesson of the last difficult years is that policy must be aimed primarily at stimulating the profitability of farms and fishing vessels. Only by doing so can the fishing industry be the important instrument in the good rural policy that we all want it to be. Unprofitable businesses create only trauma, and state rescue packages have proved to be too often for short-term help, but long-term damage. Stability and predictability are the responsibility of the Government in the fisheries policy. It has earned the industry, and it is a prerequisite for solving another problem in industry, lack of competent and risk capital. I do not believe that the regionalisation of resource management solves the problems, and I record that the Workers' Party in Finnmark will have it, while the fishermen cover themselves all along the coast, just as the Workers' Party on Møre is also opposed. I understand them. I agree that we should take advantage of the fresh fish that the market is asking for, but then the solution is not to put the unprofitable fillet industry into operation with state debt restructuring, as someone suggests. This means that you take fish from one fishing vessel and weaken the basis for profitable operations there – in other words, distortions of competition and short-term solutions to the problem of unemployment somewhere, and then transfer it to another. They already have too little fish in Hammerfest, in Båtsfjord, on Værøy and on Senja, and that's where I have to take fish if others are going to get it, unless you ask us to overfish TAC. The Workers' Party proposes new state action packages. Rather, you should be concerned about making each fish more valuable and thinking of new and exciting products that we do not know about today. This is why the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department’s largest expenditure item is actual research. The last time large amounts were spent through SND packages, from 1997 to 2003, for investments in the fishing industry, increased capacity by 22 pst. in Finnmark, at the same time as approx. 1/4 of the raw material disappeared with the missing Russian landings. Today we pay with leave and bankruptcy because it's not enough fish for all the fillet companies. What do we want to do with that? We don't solve problems by solving them one place and creating them another place. Government policy, on the other hand, works, and in general industry goes better than a few years ago. We see an emerging optimism along the coast, but we are also working on significant problems elsewhere. There are challenges here. The government meets them with an active policy, and the most important thing we can do is to make the fishing industry profitable, get profitable businesses and create good district policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1267	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1270	The proposal to impose a control charge on fisheries was, in principle, adopted when the Government Parties and the Progress Party made a budgetary settlement on 12 November this year. This despite the fact that one had hardly looked at one of the hearing opinions that had to have come in on the matter. The fishermen react strongly and now identify these batches as tax lots. They refer to what is now happening as a tax haven that will soon take the break of the coastal fishing fleet. My questions are: What do the hearing opinions actually show about the imposition of an inspection fee? Are they positive, or are they negative? Is it true that the fishermen who have spoken to the press are simply exaggerating about this tax burden? Can fishermen expect new proposals from the Government on additional taxes for the industry in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1280	Control of the resource take-off is one of the most important management tasks we have. Here is the real solution for maintaining stocks in a proper way and ensuring that resources are used in a long-term perspective. We have to recognise that in recent times, conditions have been identified that have necessitated intensified control, which in turn has meant that we have had to prioritize resources within the budgets for it. I have said over a long time that it may be necessary to charge the industry with additional costs of control to get rid of the obscenity that this represents. That is the inspection fee an answer to. The hearing shows, as it will always do – that those who have to pay do not think this is a good idea. But I have just received a hearing opinion that, in addition to saying that the annual meeting has recorded that the Workers' Party's Coastal Committee has presented a position that is not compatible with a sound economic development for Norwegian fishing industry – after Bendiks H. Arnesen has given talks – also says that this fee is acceptable to a large extent, but that the sum is too large.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1291	I allowed myself to enter an area where the Council of State was not in. A month ago, I wrote a letter to the Council of State wondering what time he was going to set the quota for the 2005 wave. There were bad rumors that there were some bureaucrats in the U.D. who didn't like the decision in the Storting that quotas would increase monthly and perhaps come up against the advice of Norwegian researchers about a few thousand animals a year. I have not received a reply. The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve promised me an answer immediately during the annual meeting of the Nordmøre Fiskarlag three weeks ago, but I still lack an answer. What's important is to know what the ratio is and what time the quacks get to know it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1298	This with the mail between Stortinget and the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department has been clarified earlier today, and I will see that the answer comes wherever the letter had to be. I want to clarify quite clearly that when it comes to determining the catch of wave whales, it is the government that decides. So what you should have heard about bureaucrats in the U.D., is uninteresting about the process that the government is now having to decide. Over the years we've been in government, we've shown that we want to increase the output of marine mammals, because you see this in an ecosystem management context. The notification of marine mammals was a clear warning that the Government has an ambition – as the Storting also stresses – to increase the output. Then we have to admit that a week ago we received signals from Japan, which is not very positive when it comes to finding a market for some of these products. The government is within a process. The industry shall receive a reply to the figure in good time before the start of the catch. It's not the first year the catch has been fixed as late as it's going to be this year. I cannot say exactly what day it is coming, but the government is working on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1311	Maybe we've dropped too many post offices – I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1314	I wonder if I should venture to do as the representative Ryan did with the representative, Mr Enoxen, thanking the Council of State in the hope that this is the last budget debate in which we meet. But if I say that, I expect the Council of State will only be more eager to continue. I've spent a lot of energy explaining to people that the Minister of Fisheries is trickier than they think. The structure of the coastal fleet, which was joined by the Stortinget, is one example. Now he has sent out proposals for the structuring of the seagoing fleet, and we have seen a clear structuring of the industry on land. This is clearly right-wing policy. But someone is paying the price for that liberalisation, and we should have gone in the opposite direction. Research into fisheries research shows that the best profitability is for small and medium-sized installations on land, those that are flexible. Quality, niche and bioproduct should not be a tribute, they should be strategies. That's why I wonder: why has the Council not even taken the trouble to comment on the value creation programme for the fishing industry, as he asked us to do in our committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1323	With respect to reporting, I think that the representative Elvik is overestimating his own influence in terms of my desire to be the Council of State or not. With regard to the future choices of the harvest and the consequences it may have for me, there may well be consequences for some others, not least when you look at the fisheries policy that Mr Elvik stands for, which is in contradiction with much of what you want along the coast. We get daily messages from fishermen and industry. Most recently today, the industry in Båtsfjord says that they do not have enough labour. Two days ago, we received a message from a fisherman on Senja who said that the interest rate decrease has meant that they have improved operating conditions, that what we have done on structure, has done that his boat, which had six men and well 200,000 kroner in income a few years ago, now has nine men and 580,000 kroner in income. It's also part of reality. We have put in place a number of measures that make the industry, not least the small businesses around the country and beach, now have better access to fish throughout the year, thanks to the vessel quotas. Fisheries research shows that industry has significantly improved its profitability over the last few years. I think we should be happy about that, rather than choosing Elvik's strategy of black-painting and thus frighten both investors and young people away from the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1332	The Minister for Fisheries is undoubtedly entitled to use public instruments in a way that does not, for example: acting as a distorting undertaking between undertakings and between regions, is a demanding exercise. The Minister of Fisheries is also right that packages to solve short-term problems are not always the best in the long term. But it's allowed to have two thoughts in your head at once. I fully agree with the Minister for Fisheries that it must be a goal to make each fish more valuable. However, problems for large parts of the fishing industry are that there is a capital situation that does not allow the fish to benefit from the additional benefit that the Minister for Fisheries is talking about. In the summer of 2003, the county councillor of Finnmark sent a special message to the Prime Minister, who called it 40 pst. by the fishing industry and a number of farms have gone bankrupt, and that approximately. 1 000 jobs in industry have been lost in a short time. Hasvik, Vardø, Lebesby, Loppa, Måsøy, Kautokeino, Båtsfjord, Nordkapp and Gamvik are the municipalities in the country with the highest unemployment rates. What the Minister for Fisheries is doing is not giving these municipalities great chances with what the Minister for Fisheries says in this debate. Therefore, my question is: does the Minister for Fisheries not see the need for a mix of measures, including short-term measures, to help these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1343	Some of the problems we see along the coast — and Vardø is such an example — cannot be solved alone with the fisheries policy. This is why the Government has taken concrete action, such as: in Vardø, with the traffic centre, the wage guarantee fund, the compensation for victims of violence – 25 new Aetat workplaces. It shows that the Government also takes responsibility in individual cases. In terms of value creation and making each fish more valuable, it's interesting to see that the Central Party's answer is to send the Stortinget to Finnmark, as if there were more fish of it. This is where the main problem lies. There's too little fish to distribute on the overcapacity that we have. And what did we use the years 1997-2003 for? Well, we spent $1.5 billion in Finnmark. 70 pst. went to the fishing industry and we created an overcapacity that increased by 22 pst. That's what we're struggling to build down. Are we going to use more of that? In this room on 6 February 2002, the representative Arnstad of the Central Party raised the question of, and was very critical of, the new factory in Svartneshavna. It was an answer to the challenges of the future in terms of value-added. The centre party strongly opposes the fact that we should have free access to the EU market through membership of our main market. That's how we give away value creation, that's how we give away jobs along the coast. It is then that the Centre Party does not contribute specifically to coastal development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1352	Let me make a few old sayings. One thing is, the purpose is to sanctify the medium. The second thing is, what you don't know isn't hurt. What purpose the Government has with its coastal policy, they may know for themselves. More concretely, and especially in relation to Finnmark, which has been a major part of the debate so far today: If the Government intends to rescue the settlement in parts of Coastal Finland, the Government has chosen the wrong means. If the Government intends to help crack parts of Coastal Finmark, the Government has chosen the right tool. The middle from the north seems to be what I said: what you don't know, you haven't hurt. You don't want to take the situation inward as it is in Finnmark. Political snitch talk has been contributed so far, and it provokes. It provokes violently. Therefore, a new attempt at self-evaluation — still on a scale from one to ten: Does the Government believe that the government has managed the situation in Finnmark so well that it comes within a scale from one to ten?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1361	In this way, the Workers' Party's fisheries policy could be measured against the policy pursued by the Government and, as it is confirmed, a positive development along the coast, a growing optimism and solution to some of the problems that exist there — while the country and the beach around now rise a storm against the proposals made by the Workers' Party on the regionalisation of resources. Fishermen from landing to landing are opposed, and the Workers' Party in large parts of the country is doing so. Why? Well, you try to produce the fish twice in the Working Party. You move fish from Hammerfest to Vardø. You have to move fish from Værøy. You have to move fish from Senja to other places. There won't be any more fish out of it. And I think you should be honest about that in the Workers' Party. In fact, at least a greater part of the cod fleet belongs to Finnmark now than in 1990. A greater part of the cod is now landed in Finnmark than in 1990. Three quarters of the cod quota is in North Norway. Then the Workers' Party's solution, to move fish northwards, means that there will be fewer fish in Troms and Northland. What kind of solidarity is that?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1368	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1372	When government parties claim that the Government conducts an offensive industrial policy, there must be a new form of advertising for the emperor's new clothes. Such advertising shall be subject to a lengthy search if a reader makes adjustments and budgets. The freedom has stuck. It has been cut in the targeted framework conditions and, where there are some measures worth mentioning, they have come under pressure from the Labour Party in the Stortinget. Let me give you some examples. The government promoted a quota system that would have accelerated industrial death here in the country. The current Minister for the Environment, the current Minister for Industry, said during the discussion of Norwegian climate policy about the Labour Party's policy: ‘The point is that this is not at stake. The working party has resigned from the process when the Storting for the first time received a concrete follow-up to the Kyoto Agreement.» In retrospect, the Government has presented proposals that are almost identical to the Workers' Party then proposed – a little less ambitious, but still so that there was an acceptable arrangement for us in the Workers' Party. It could have been interesting to hear if the council still believes what he said at the time. In any case, the Minister of Industry must feel that he has suffered a bitter defeat both in the Government and in the Stortinget, because yesterday Odelstinget adopted a quota system for Norway – with the support of the Workers' Party. It's a completely different system than the State Council Fire in its pressure through with the help of SV. It was a system that would have significantly weakened the opportunities for the Norwegian competitive industry. Nor does the government see it as a goal to give this industry competitive prices of electricity, while the government parties at Stortinget are obviously not of the same opinion. First, they participated in the Stortinget's request to oblige the Government to secure such agreements. The government didn't follow up. Now the government parties agree that when the government does not do its job, the Storting must do it. In the Workers' Party, we have always lived by the principle that it should be the other way around. Nor will the government guarantee Norwegian seafarers competitive conditions, despite the fact that then Right-leader Jan Petersen wrote in a letter to the Swedish Maritime Association on 29 May 2001: ‘The result of EU rules is that similar schemes are being set up in an increasing number of EU countries. The right considers that Norwegian seafarers must have equivalent framework conditions.’ The current Minister of Health, former Minister of Industry, Ansgar Gabrielsen was also not in a tight spot in the previous election campaign. If he got into the Storting, he was going to take care of the seafarers. He was supposed to secure an airport on the list. He was supposed to secure power contracts for the industry, yes, he was even going to secure free buses in Kristiansand. This he almost guaranteed. It was another time. What has happened in retrospect is that the toolbox is empty, the ears are closed, and the welfare community is weakened. It's been a long time since the last big game. In any case, it might seem like we remember the promises from the government parties at that time. In particular, I remember right-wing offensives about bad schools, bad hospitals, bad conditions for industry and ‘sluggage’ public employees. They've done a lot in relation to this. But everything has gone in the wrong direction in terms of community economics, hospitals, and industrial framework conditions. They're trying to float on tax havens to those who actually have profits. On the other hand, the efforts of entrepreneurs and those to start up are almost absent from what is desirable. This government has been running around with empty toolbox for three years. It has weakened Norwegian business and made us more dependent on oil. If we still want to be at the top of the world with regard to the welfare community, we can't afford more Right Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1402	The main challenge for the Co-operation Administration when it started three years ago was to balance the economy. High interest rates and high interest rates made our competitive industries very difficult to keep their heads above the water. Through tight fiscal policies on the part of the UK and balanced wage settlements on the part of the social partners, these developments have reversed. The interest rate, which was over 7 pst. in 2001, is now below 3 pst. We've put the floor plan in place in the economy. In my speech, I would like to touch on two areas of business policy, two industries with long and proud traditions – shipping and agriculture. First a few words about shipping policy. In our case, the Stortinget dealt with a shipping report, where the Government was given a majority for its policy. The maritime cluster employs about 75 000 people. These are annual works in shipping companies, on board ships, in equipment production, in the yard, in the financial industry and in the service industry. The right-hand side has as its starting point that the shipping companies are naved in the maritime cluster. Therefore, it is important that we pursue a tax policy that makes it attractive for shipping companies to operate from Norway. In this context, the main challenge is to abolish the strange wealth tax. The shipping message, entitled Will for Growth, had a thorough review of the net pay scheme. In today's budget, it's set at 1060 million. kr for net wages and salaries. Three years ago, the scheme was worth less than 300 million. kr, so we're talking about a triple. We aim to continue this sum in the coming years, but we will introduce a model of competence. This means that all the required certificates in the NIS and NOR registers fall within the scheme. A third challenge is to adapt the rate of red tape to those countries within the EU with which it is natural to compare. The government will set up an expert committee to review the different schemes and ensure that we are harmonised in this area with our European competitors. So a few words about agricultural policy. There is a broad consensus on the agricultural policy we are pursuing here in the country. It is important to assume that a good industrial policy is also a good agricultural policy. Lower interest rates are one of the reasons why both the optimism and the desire for investment — as we now see — have returned to agriculture. The most important thing that has happened is that we have shifted focus away from the annual reports and over to farm use as a business or business. The farmers, or rather the food producers, have been given the opportunity to organise their production as they themselves wish, for example. through joint ventures or separate companies. In the past, we had a peasantry that was governed by laws, regulations and regulations. The government has opened the gate. Through amendments to the concession law and simplification of regulations, we have reduced agricultural bureaucracy. In addition, we have decentralised decision-making powers and instruments to the municipalities. We have made it clear that agriculture, in addition to producing good quality food either by volume production or by niche production, also has a task for the community relating to cultural landscapes and beautiful rural areas. Travel industry is clearly telling us that their activities depend on our active farming. When the number of years of use shows a decline, it is primarily due to technological developments. We see that this development is now being flattened out, and I take that as a sign that we have gradually gained a more optimal operation. A major challenge for Norwegian agriculture is the current WTO negotiations. Here the government has done a very satisfactory job. It is important that we ensure the scope of action for future agricultural policy, so that we get robust and efficient Norwegian food production. In addition, it is important that we maintain schemes to ensure cultural landscapes and diversity in Norwegian regions. When we use this picture, a solid ground plank in business policy, it's an image that both shipping and agriculture have special prerequisites for understanding. Our ambition is to continue to have a solid base in industrial policy – low interest rates, stable krone prices, low inflation and continued tax relief for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1425	Government policy works. We now have a better dollar rate, and we've got a historically low interest rate. The bottom plan of the economy is fine, much thanks to the government's economic policy. We see a greater optimism in business than what we saw just a few years ago, and we are delighted with the constant start-ups, so far this year approx. 23,000 new enterprises. The right will continue to pursue a policy that ensures a generally good framework for business and that people dare to be entrepreneurs. A competitive business is important to ensure our future well-being. In addition to investing in lower taxes and taxes on industry, the Government rates on research, development and innovation. The overall objective of R & D investment is to contribute to increased value creation in business. Nutritional R & D is one of the key elements of a good innovation policy. It might also be worth mentioning that for the first time, nutrition research is over NOK 3 billion. Business is also now for the first time for more than 50 pst. of R & D expenditures, and although it is still a good deal to do before we get back to the countries with which we compete, this shows that the government's commitment to research works. The successful TAX FUNN scheme continues and is expected to bring relief of a total of DKK 1.8 billion next year. Overall, the Cooperative Government has increased its research effort by DKK 2.8 billion. The government is investing in R & D both in public and in private to strengthen future well-being. It is important that Norwegian research communities and enterprises continue to participate in international research programmes. I am therefore pleased that the Government has initiated a closer link with the European Galileo project so that Norwegian industry can be given a mandate in line with EU countries. The government has also continued to signal participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research and Technology. Following the conciliation with the Progress Party, a majority of four new nationwide seed funds linked to four university cities are now secured. There is an incredible amount of good research at our universities, and the new seed funds are intended to facilitate the phase from research to commercialisation, so that we can benefit from what we are the very best at, namely knowledge. In addition to these nationwide funds, the previously adopted district-based seed funds are expected to be operational during 2005. The government continues to work on business simplification. An important tool in this work is AltInn, which involves electronic reporting for business. Since its launch in May 2004, more than 1.7 million forms have been passed through the AltInn system, and a success can well be called. While working on this, the Government is working on the introduction and use of electronic signatures and is expected to be in place during 2005. To give an example from the everyday life of simplification, we can submit the tax return electronically, save the public for 300 years of work and people too much queue and irritation. The majority of the responsibility for IT policy has now been assumed by the newly created Ministry of Modernisation. This means that the Ministry is responsible for the coordination of IT policies. This is an important work since there are an incredible number of departments with different and sometimes cross-cutting interests in ICT policy. It is also important that departments should be able to acquire competence in key IT areas so that they can use IT as a tool in their activities. Furthermore, it is important that broadband policy be coordinated and that departments follow up on cross-sectoral issues. In 2005, the government will have a special focus on the development of public electronic services for citizens and businesses, including: through the creation of a common Internet portal for public services. This will open up new opportunities in our communication with the public. In 1999, Hoekom was established as a three-year grant scheme. The scheme continued for three new years in 2001, and the Government has now decided to continue it for a further three years. Through Høkom, public enterprises across the country want to make use of ICT. In this way, we get a better public offer to citizens, while at the same time contributing to the demand for IT services that form the basis for the development of infrastructure, from which businesses and individuals can benefit. Ensuring access to broadband services in sparsely populated areas is a major challenge. The Government, therefore, set up in 2004 the sub-programme ‘Hoekom district’. This sub-programme has been successful and will increase its share of the total appropriations under the Høkom programme in 2005. Finally, I just want to say that I am very pleased that we are now going to adopt a budget that ensures future well-being, innovation and modernisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1453	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1456	Yeah, it's great to be in the nutrition debate. There's no doubt about it. I can only say that first and foremost. There is a broad majority in the nutrition committee that points to the importance of investing in women’s establishments. But there's a great deal of distance between the female founders themselves I myself need, and what the plurality of the political environment says it is. It is positive that Innovation Norway is investing in women, but the result is out of proportion to the level of ambition of women entrepreneurs, nor to the level of ambition of the Workers' Party. It will be exciting to see if the proportion of the funds collected by Innovation Norway has increased, and what has been done to bring forward more women’s establishments in Norway, as was the ‘order’ in St.prp. No 51 for 2002-2003. We are not exactly favourable according to the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor: Norway is the only Nordic country well below the OECD average for new start-ups for women. A National Action Plan for Innovation and Entrepreneurship is needed and there is a need for a willingness to respond to the actions undertaken. One needs to adjust the rate if the tools we have collected give too thin results. I come from a district where the coastal cargo fleet is an important food route, and I am pleased with the plural remark that the freight fleet is going to have a painfully needed renewal. But this industry doesn't live by comments. It is absolutely decisive that the Government will immediately follow up this matter within the framework, so that the freighter will have a renewal program that will enable them to compete with the rest of the European fleet that actually travels in our waters today. It would have been useful if the Minister of Industry could have made a comment on this today. I would also like to mention the arrangement of IFU and OFU contracts, and that these must be used actively to ensure that Norwegian industry is able to participate in the Eurofighter fighter development programme. It is important that this system is actively used to give us maximum coverage when it concerns development work for our technology businesses. It is not enough for us to compete for production tasks after our fighter aircraft options have been designed. Finally, I would like to give my full support to focusing on the possibilities and challenges of the coast. If there are people living in the whole country, it's decisive that we get a value creation based on the resources of the sea, and that one can have prices that defend the cost level of Norway. There must be both creative and innovative solutions to be supported in order to produce products that consumers want. Finally, I want to focus heavily on the market so that we can succeed in this field. Because that's just the way we can actually create lasting jobs in Fisheries-Noreg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1473	There has been a lot of talk about Finnmark in this debate, and I also want to talk about Finnmark. It's my own home country. I also want to nuance a little of the picture that was created. If you compare Norwegian municipalities between 1960 and 1990, Ashkoy and Stjørdal grew fastest by all Norwegian municipalities in percent, while Alta came in third place. In fact, if we describe the population development in Alta, all Finnish fields will live there in 2377 – and perhaps more suitable for those sitting here in the hall: all the Nordics will do so in 2858. Of course, that's how statistics can be abused. Nevertheless, it is clear that the situation is gloomy for some municipalities. Vardø has been mentioned, which has had 20 pst. decline over the last 10 years. Gamvik had a greater decline, and the same had Mashøy. It has often been produced as if it were given because of the policy pursued today. But if one compares the decline that Vardø had in the period 1999–2002, i.e. the period when the government set Stoltenberg and Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was Minister of Finance, the decline was 7.6 p.m. It's quite exactly the same on average as the decline that has been over the entire ten-year period. There is therefore no visible difference in the development of the population in Vardø, whether there is a government with a Right-State Council or, for that matter, whether Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is Minister for Fisheries. But at least it has to be agreed that there is certainly a link between the fisheries policy that has been under way, regardless of government, and the developments that have been observed. Compared with the Båtsfjord community, a stable fishing company that managed to keep its workforce was also holding the population for a decade – until 2003. Then you have a decline in Båtsfjord that will be relatively dramatic this last year. Therefore, neither Svein Ludvigsen nor other fisheries ministers can evade the importance of having stable supplies of fish raw material – predictability – and thus ensure the farms on land. And therefore, of course, it is a disaster for these coastal communities, these coastal communities, that they can no longer be sure of getting supplies of fish raw material. No matter what kind of government you have, you have to look at other ways to manage this raw material, so the population can be sure to have one outcome from one day to the other. It is therefore very positive that more and more forces are now calling for a more regionalised fisheries policy, which can provide that kind of predictability. It can also provide a sustainability in the fisheries policy – which we do not have today, and which the Minister for Fisheries did not mention in his speech – which makes it impossible to fish the sea empty for fish, but instead has the raw material, which will be a valuable resource for Finnmark, and which Finnmark will depend on in the millennium we have entered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1486	Last week, a conference was held in Bodø under the auspices of the European Programme. The conference is part of a project entitled ‘Norway Sea Domain — Challenges and Strategies’. The aim of the project is to address concrete issues in this area and focus on them. VG and Dagbladet were present and in comments they later got the essence of the conference. Their comments can be recommended – at least as a short version of what happened. VGs Arve Överby writes on the commentary position on 3 December under the title «Long, far north»: «Does the Norwegian authorities bluff in our Norwegian interests in the northern regions? Are we staggering our chances of becoming an economic and resource power in the north?’ The conference was marked by great frustration and criticised for the lack of understanding and interest in Norwegian interests in the northern regions. The criticism came not least from speakers from the south — i.e. Oslo. The Russians are active. The United States is seeking to safeguard its interests, both in terms of defence policy and in terms of energy policy. Even our little green, ice-free neighbor, Denmark, is on the track. Where's Norway? Jon Bingen, the Executive Director of the Europe Programme, appeared to be both committed and pessimistic – committed to the great opportunities we have in the north, and pessimistic because of the lack of interest in the political and academic environments of the capital. According to the media, Prime Minister Bondevik has gone into the mind box to think about one specific matter. I would recommend both the Prime Minister and the rest of the Government to immediately start an active process of thinking about how Norway will emerge with a new and active policy for our northern regions. Unfortunately, it is today that Norway is being produced as an incalculable cat’s post in the Northern Region policy. It can't be like that. A very recent example from the fishing area: the Fisheries Directorate and the Coast Guard in Norway have over time documented gross, Russian overfishing in the Barents Sea. It's cod, it's about. The Russians have met this with a lot of talk, counterclaims and little willingness to take concrete action. A short time ago, in the month of November/December, it also boiled over – finally, I would say – for one of the smartest and tidyest bureaucrats in the Fisheries Directorate. He was very clear – public – about the Russians’ lack of attitude, will and ability to do something about overfishing. I am aware that in a letter dated 3 December Norway's Fiskerlag has addressed these matters with the Prime Minister. Finally, I just want to repeat my message: in relation to the Russians and the fisheries, I think there is only one thing that benefits, and that is a heavy political commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1506	I noticed that the representative Inge Ryan did not respond to my reply instead. He tried to blame us. Yes, it is that when you have bad or no arguments, there is a tactic that benefits, and it is talking higher and attacking the counterparty. But I don't think there will be as many people as he thinks – at least not the seafarers. And I don't think he believes in it even once. In this way I would like to quote a congregation called Ivar Aasen: ‘Wisdom may be concealed, but folly not.’ In fact, it was during the management of the shipping message that the train passed when it broke the net pay arrangements. We in the Progress Party – and I think I can also speak for the Labour Party and the Center Party – believed that the SV did on 27 February 2003, when they formed a plurality with the Labour Party, the Center Party and the Progress Party, were to be trusted, but it was not. That was when the train went, it was when a set of Norwegian seafarers ashore – for unemployment. As a ship's fleet crashed as one did, it is not just the seamen who have the right to go on land and go out to work. There are people inside the entire maritime cluster – shipyards, ship equipment, ship design, the local grocery store, etc. It is about perhaps 70 000 – 100000 jobs that are at risk when réarlags are now flagged out. And there's something wrong when the representative Inge Ryan and others from SV talk about giving tax relief to those who have so much already, and that it's the owner who gets tax relief. The owner does not receive tax credits. It's the naval layer that gets tax relief, which they can use. But what does that help? What's happening is that réar layers are flying out. So the reindeer and the reindeer make up maybe three or four times as much, and the sailors are put on land. When it comes to the ship’s industry, they say that if it wasn’t for the owner’s team and the Norwegian seafarer who picks up phones and sends emails from the Mexico Gulf, Brazil – ‘anywhere’ – and they tell us that this and that must be done to make the boats the best possible, we wouldn’t have had the maritime clusters around Norway. It is sad that SV was not able to trust in this matter. On behalf of the seafarers, I say I am sorry for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1523	For the coastal nation of Norway, it is important that the debate on industrial policy pays as much attention to fisheries as it has done today. Now it is the case that the fishing industry is not a uniform industry, on the contrary. The industry is characterised by different and partly highly conflicting interests. With such a starting point, it is our task, together with the industry, to manage resources so that the coastal population – the population along our entire coast – can have its way out of the sea. Unfortunately, it has become so that the words ‘management’ and ‘regulation’ have almost become the lead for this government. The market, on the other hand, has great faith in the creative power of market mechanisms. But believe me, market forces will never be able to secure the coastal communities alone. The main challenge in the Finnish fishing industry is to create good profitability on the land, thus creating safe and forward-looking jobs. We also need an offensive effort in the seafood sector and in travel. The maritime food sector is considered the second most important and is considered to be the industry of Norwegian coastal communities with the best conditions for positive development and a major – the largest – employment effect. We have to listen to this, and we have to do something about this. Then to the new adventure: Next Monday, December 20th, drilling rig Eirik Raute starts a three-month drilling program in the Barents Sea. Already in the second quarter of 2005, we know more about whether these three wells are geologically interesting. The aim must be oil and fish in good neighbourliness, and the authorities must keep up the pressure, they must carry out work to launch a strategy on how Norway will take care of its interests in the northern regions. I give full support to him who was up here and said, "What do our authorities do to be offensive in the north?" It's urgent to get this in place. So let's do that. grey zone problems. What is the Government's strategy to solve that knot? Finally, a few words about tourism: the tourism industry in Northern Norway employs more people today than the fishing industry does. Travel industries in the north are well organised, they carry out a targeted market activity, and they are represented by practitioners with a high level of competence. Finnmark is one of two counties in Norway where a master’s degree in travel life is offered. In this context, the establishment of a Centre of Expertise in Travel Life in Finland is now under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1541	During the debate, the Government and government parties have been criticized for not wanting to discriminate against floating hotel staff on the ferries and the hotel, course and conference industries on land. For me, it is completely incomprehensible that we should subsidise the annual salary of the individual barkeepers, housekeepers and tax-free sellers on board the ferries at NOK 120 000, while many of our exchange and conference hotels on land, in the countryside and in the city pay their taxes and have to fight hard with the shipping companies. There are many travel businesses and hotels on land that could imagine the same scheme. For example, Union Hotels in Geiranger – a corner stone farm, a beau or not for the Geiranger countryside. The hotel is completely dependent on courses and conferences as well as tourism, approx. 3-4 months in the summer. I can mention many more examples. The list is as long as our long-distance coast, and we find very many prestigious tourist hotels in the heart of our fjords and in our small communities. What will the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party do with the day in which the light is extinguished, for example? tourist-built Geiranger, because these parties have given cruise ferries with large operating profits tax advantages that strengthen competition between Norwegian historical fjord hotels that fight for their lives? Government rates and shall continue to invest in the maritime industry through the model of competence. The maritime manning, which consists of officers and engineers on board, will continue to benefit from the net pay scheme. It is quite so exaggerated when the representative Lodve Solholm claims that the entire maritime cluster will fall with this. The government does not want to give the ferry companies and hotel staff on board benefits that can break the neck of competing industries ashore.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1555	The Minister of Fisheries has said several times today that the Workers' Party will have a regionalisation of fishing resources, and I assume that the Council of State then thinks that the Workers' Party has had a coastal committee in place that has put forward a position on a comprehensive coastal policy. This setting is very well received along the coast. We have received a positive response, not only from our own party, but also from many other actors and from industries. Many say that finally someone has put the coast on the agenda, and that this has been missing. This is a comprehensive approach that addresses the whole situation of the coast and coastal communities. Here is a set of proposals, instruments and measures. This is concrete, but it requires political governance and not market power. We have created a good coastal action plan that we invite to cooperate on. When the Council of State spoke about the regionalisation of fishing resources, I see that this concerns our proposal on recruitment and district quotas – and where there is a majority and a minority. Here's the shared opinions, also in the Working Party, but that's a small part of the setting. I noticed that the Council of State quoted from a decision that was supposed to be made in an organisation and related to a lecture I should have given. Here, the Council of State should also have said where it came from, as it does in Storting's Rules of Procedure. I'm a lot out there presenting the Workers' Party's coastal policy. I do that with great luck, and I usually get a lot of support. So to the representative Nørve, who says that the Workers' Party will subsidize barkeepers and hotel staff on board these ferries. So those who are bartenders, and those who work on the hotel side of these boats, are also seafarers, because they're part of a security crew. And the ferries bring a lot of people to Norway, which leads to many overnight stay days on land. That should be part of it, too. So I think this actually works the opposite. It brings overnight to the hotels to which the representative Nørve referred. Then I want to ask: what has changed so dramatically about this exactly since June 29, 2001, when Jan Petersen wrote a letter to the Norwegian Maritime Association and promised support for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1570	I do not want to withdraw this debate, but the representative Lodve Solholm spent relatively much time on SV and I signed, and I think I have to clarify a little in relation to that. SV has always been against net wages, but we made an exception in relation to offshore vessels, and we have followed that up to the point and the point in all decisions since. Otherwise, we have been quite clear that we are opposed to net pay and that we want other types of instruments for this group. So Lodve Solholm SV attacks violently for this. But I repeat what I said. I must say that in this debate the Progress Party has also highlighted the enormous importance of this matter for the Progress Party. Then I am amazed that they have not got this done in negotiations with the Government. Either it must be that it is not so important anyway – it is an opportunity – or the Progress Party is some wretched negotiators who cannot achieve it. And I expected that the representative Solholm, who has so many years behind him in Stortinget, would have made it clear when he actually gets into such a position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1579	Actually, I should not have helped to prolong the debate, but the representative Arnesen complained that I had not stated the source of a quote. I showed in my post earlier today to the annual meeting of the North Norway Shipowners' Association, which took a decision after examining, among other things. The position of the Coastal Committee of the Workers Party, and I also mentioned that they were negative to the sum of the charging policies pursued by the Government. Since Arnesen specifically asks me to be neat in relation to the record, the North Norway Shipowners' Association has taken the following decisions after the representative Arnesen has given talks there. That's four quotes. I quote the first: ‘The annual meeting has registered that the Workers' Party's Coastal Election has presented a position which is incompatible with a sound economic development for the Norwegian fishing industry.’ A new quotation: ‘The annual meeting of the Northern Norway Shipowners’ Association believes that the Coastal Committee has addressed a number of issues that are important for the development of the coast, but considers that the sample has not been equally lucky with proposals for solutions.’ Further: ‘The annual meeting of the Northern Norway Shipowners' Association is disappointed that the Workers' Party's Coastal Election in its proposal for a solution to the problems of the fishing industry, is also contributing to the removal of the Deltakers' Act and the Rafis' Act.’ And last, but not least: ‘The annual meeting considers that if the majority vote of the panel is adopted and becomes a Norwegian fisheries policy, this will reduce equity and the ability to renew and develop the fleet.’ There were four quotes about what I referred to in a previous post, and I think it's reasonably strong diet. In fact, I find it rather daring to try to draw a picture of the government's policy as if it were to harm the coast, when we know that there is optimism, that more fish are landed in North Norway than before, that there are relatively more ships connected to the continent. And then you ask that there be more fish! Yes, there are two possibilities for that. One is that you move fish from one part of the country. But 75 pst. from the cod quota in Northern Norway, then a take from the North and Troms or from the West – to give Finnmark more. The second possibility is that we can allow an overfishing. If we are to allow an overfishing, Knut Werner Hansen's criticism of the Russians is put in a rather strange light. I remind you that we signed an agreement with the Russians in November in Ålesund with the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission on further measures to bring this about. I took this up a few days ago in Moscow, and there is a new meeting between the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries in Russia and the undersigned. We have a high pressure on this, but we also have to sweep for our own door. We're trying to do that, but now you don't have to ask to get more fish for Finnmark, which can only be solved by increasing the cod quota over TAC. That's not gonna happen. It will be to damage the population and the fishing nets in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1606	No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 956]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1621	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 971]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1636	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1645	: If you read the matter carefully, you can see that it is Olav Aksensen who is the rapporteur, but unfortunately he is gone because of illness in the family. I've taken over his role. As usual at this time, we will deal with a number of changes and appropriations in the 2004 government budget, and this issue also concerns the Ministry of Industry and Trade. And as usual, there are few of the changes proposed by the Government, to which the Storting has comments. That is the case, a wise government follows up the decisions and policies of a majority of the Grand Duchy. This government, or the Minister of Industry, has been largely wise, except in one area. It's Statkraft, and I'll come back to that. First a little bit about a proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre on Seed Schemes: the budget debate that we have had earlier today has shown that we are all concerned with the cereal regimes, but that there is still doubt in some people about the four district-oriented cereal funds, and whether they are being put to death. We are all concerned about this, but in the context of the budgetary procedure, we have received a number of requests from some northern to southern investment communities in the country that the funds proposed are too large and that they should be divided into eight funds. Their main argument is that it will then be possible to provide private capital. We have heard in the debate today that this is what we are anxious for all – that it should not be possible. As I said in my article in the budget debate, we haven't been among the architects behind these funds, but we've been following up and voting for the whole time. We are now anxious that they have ended up in a situation where they are not being invested in private capital and they are not going to be put in place. That is why we propose, together with the Centre Party, to divide the funds into eight funds, as proposed by these investment environments. Then we're going to hope that it adds private capital. We don't get a majority for this, but it's our contribution, hoping you can get the funds started. We know that this might delay the funds, but it's better that they get a little late than they don't get started at all. So to Statkraft: In June 2004, Ansgar Gabrielsen was Minister of Food and Trade. At that time, the Stortinget took several decisions on State power, including: are the key exchange policy and the document fee. In December 2004, Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade Børge Brende was present. But it's the same big thing, it's the same people who were here in June, who are here now in December. We remember what we adopted in June, as opposed to the government, which seems to have forgotten what the majority of the Great Britain decided in June. The majority in Stortinget said, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. ‘The Government asks the Government to base the ordinary rules of the Share Act on the determination of dividends from Statkraft SF.’ That majority was the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. So the budget came, and this was not taken into account. On the contrary, the government went for full dividends. My question is, how many times are we going to deal with Statkraft in this big room, without the government listening to the majority? When we took these decisions, it was on the basis that we believed that the normal provisions of the Share Act would apply to State power. The working party wanted to go a little further because the company was greatly reduced in credit because the State had gone beyond its guarantee liability as a result of the State Enterprise Act. There had been a discussion of dividends, and there was a decision in Stortingen to add 4 billion kroner. As long as the government follows the dividend policy it's now making, we're going to continuously assess the government's capital injection to the company, and we're going to propose another $4 billion in input to State Power. I could make a long post about this, but I'm not going to remind you of what we've decided. I'm just saying that the Council of State does not listen to the majority in the Grand Council. That's too bad. I address the proposals to which the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1672	The representative has addressed the proposals to which she referred. Ivar Kristiansen has the word if he wants to. It's not a coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1677	There is an interplay between great light and mid-force in extending the debate today with new rounds of State power. I had actually believed that this debate belonged in the budget debate, where perhaps sums in the 4-billion-dollar class were supposed to belong. I believe that this continuing care for Statkraft needs to be seen in the light of the fact that Statkraft has actually increased its equity in the last year with approx. 5 billion kroner. I believe several of the parties in the Storting, now also the parties behind this proposal, would say that even in this process, State power is given the opportunity to present its proposals on how they intend to apply a strengthened equity. State power, compared to any other company in Norway, has had a vigilance and generosity from Stortinget that no other company in Norway has had. I believe that in this eagerness to carry money to the company, at least time should be taken to see how the Competition Authority and the bodies that will follow the competitive situation in the market are presented in relation to a comment and a recommendation from the Ministry of Industry and Trade in the further follow-up of the company. The same is necessary, in my opinion, in assessing what Statkraft should apply to its new acquired equity. I have not heard a single discussion in Stortinget from the proposers about the area, the niche or the type of energy – is the infrastructure or green energy we are talking about – in which Statkraft is to engage. In any case, the Competition Authority has determined the framework within which State power has to deal with domestic affairs. I think we all, in the interests of our current subscribers, are going to spend the necessary time, so that we don't just get left with other actors than Statkraft. With regard to this recurrent round of district funds, seed funds, no one should be surprised that there are a number of environments around Norway that have views on how this district billion — or half a billion, what it had to end up with — should be used. I also consider this to be a rematch round. Once this district fund has been adopted, when it is implemented, and when the marshaller who has been given Innovation Norway to do this on the best possible terms, like the best seed fund in Norway that has ever seen the light of day, I believe for the sake of development in District Norway that the Stortinget will stand to leave these peoples who are going to do this job to get the necessary peace and quiet. After listening to the debate earlier today, I have the definite impression that what the Stortinget has so far adopted is being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1692	The representative Kristiansen mentioned that the Stortinge showed shyness to Statkraft. What the Stortinget represented at the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party are doing is to remedy the damage that government parties are now causing to Government by failing to comply with the decisions taken by the Stortinget. We discussed the state power proposition in ours, and it was a unanimous decision that the document fee should be compensated for. It does not follow up on the Government, even though the government parties also supported the proposal. And then it was the second decision, which was given a majority of the government parties, that the normal rule of the Share Act would apply when it applied to dividends in State power. Here, therefore, the Government does not follow its own parties in the Stortinget and decisions taken five months ago. I quote that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade promised to follow up this decision. I'd like to quote it, but I think it's going a little bit far. It should be enough to remind the government of this. And then it was also a unanimous remark. The representative of Kristiansen was involved in this with the Competition Authority and sales. This is in so far as a proper assessment is made by the Competition Authority. But what the Stortinget said unanimously is that greater sales – I refer to Trondheim Energie, Agder Energie, etc. – should not be the basis for dividend calculation. Also at this third point, the government goes against what a unanimous big thing said five months ago, so I think this is starting to be quite serious. Is it any wonder, then, that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party are trying to prove what the Government is not following up? But what's disappointing is that the Socialist Left does not follow up what they said a year ago in that supplementary proposition, when they went in to grant $4 billion, and they said they could imagine giving 10. I would also like to recall the International Bureau of Analysis saying after the government submitted the State budget. No matter what the Government and Government representatives now say, this is serious for State power. They get a credit rating that is far worse than competitors in Europe have. Let's take examples of other major companies: EDF in France – 100 pst. State ownership, such as Statkraft – or Vattenfall in Sweden. There's a dividend of between 20 and 50 pst. In other words, commercial criteria are used in dividend decisions, but not in State power. A total delay shall be made so that an earlier decision in the Grand Duchy that State power should be, or should become, an even more significant player in the Nordic region cannot be followed up. The credit rating is on triple B after the state guarantee disappeared a few years ago. The board has said that we need to have a credit rating at the A-level, as the competitors out there have. So these business considerations are not the government's willingness to follow up. One would believe that the business party Right wanted Statkraft to be able to handle this business and earn money to the Norwegian state now, after it has become a limited company – not just a limited company. The party of progress is therefore very disappointed. There is now also a Document No. Eight proposals for consideration in Stortinget. We want to change the law, so that the government of Statkraft can determine dividends on the basis of commercial criteria. That's how you feel in every other company. In a company that is in an investment phase, as the power industry in Europe is largely, the dividends are being reduced. If you are in a ripening or harvesting phase, which these businesses are not, you pay a larger profit – that is, a business idea that I thought this government was more concerned with than it is. We'll hope for you when this Document No. The 8 proposal comes to mind, that especially SV, who are on the verge here, and who want a strong, state power, is also following up in reality, which they are not doing today, and which I am very disappointed at.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1709	I'm recording that there's a certain increase in the temperature of the intercom when it comes to the relationship with Statkraft. It must be allowed to ask for a certain degree of eugenicity also in relation to describing the situation of State power. With the capital injections they have received in recent years, and also with the significant dividends that they intend to keep in operation, it is not possible to describe this as a year-lag, as the latter put it. State power is an important player both in the Norwegian, Nordic and subsequently also in the European energy market. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we see it as important that Statkraft also gets the framework conditions that enable them to play this dominant role, do a good job and manage the capital they have been given, in a sound and strategically good way. It is also right to say that State power has taken good care of their administrative capital. I would also like to stress that on the part of the Christian People's Party, we see it as essential that Statkraft strengthens its ownership of a Norwegian government, as the situation is today. But, in my view, State power has been treated in a proper way, and has been given the opportunity to make the significant purchases that they have made in the Norwegian as well as in the Nordic and European markets, precisely because we have given them the financial muscles that are necessary. So the government has proposed a dividend of 78 pst. of the estimated consolidated profit or loss, while the corresponding dividend last year was 95 pst. In other words, from Statkraft's point of view, this is a significant improvement. State power will retain DKK 1 billion of its profits, in addition to – I have to remember – the DKK 4 billion that State force was introduced through a separate decision in the Stortinget last year. The government's proposed exchange rate proposal is based on an overall assessment of the company's economic and financial situation, i.e.: that the owner, i.e. the State, ensures a capital discipline and also a necessary strengthening of ownership control, by the fact that larger investment projects must be presented to the owner before they are decided upon. I noticed both Grethe Fosslis and Øystein Hedstrøm's complaints regarding the lack of follow-up by the Government on the capital situation in Statkraft. I also noticed that Grethe Fossli made a proposal for a further DKK 4 billion in capital injections – almost in frustration, if you believe her words, about the dividend policy that she believes is unfair and inappropriately applied to State power. Now it doesn't seem like there's a majority in favour of this proposal. Then it is the decision of the Government to deal with such a case, but there must also be opposition parties on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1724	I would like to comment on two proposals for amendments that have been made in relation to the proposal by the Government. The first is with seed funds. There's only one comment. SV and the government parties had an agreement on this, and last year a decision on four regional seed funds added to economically weak areas. We take that as a matter of course being followed up, and of course we're on it. We cannot therefore support a change. The second proposal concerns Statkraft. I have to say that I am relatively new at Stortinget, but the way in which proposals about Statkraft have been promoted in this room has amazed me every time. We've got Document No. Eight proposals from the Labour Party for DKK 10 billion. Now, all of a sudden, it's $4 billion we're going to add. I have to say that if there was to be any seriousity in this, one must at least have taken this at least in relation to the alternative budgets, one who had said that one would actually want to give State power NOK 4 billion more, and therefore either reduce the budget by NOK 4 billion or add NOK 4 billion more from the oil fund. Now we're driving and wondering how to sail. Now all the parties use up the framework that is, and then you take money from the oil fund and then you bring it back. It is, in my view, a way of operating budgeting and economic thinking that is totally horrific. That is why we cannot be part of this. In that case, this had to be included in the budget, so that it had been dealt with in a much more serious way, and did not come forward with proposals that have been promoted relatively quickly and without any particularly good and thorough treatment. That is why we are voting against that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1731	Inge Ryan has just one thing, and it is that the budget balance is so sacred that in some cases the government also proposes to make dividends, in order to add capital, in order to reduce the budget balance. There's no lucky way to run politics, there's Inge Ryan completely right in. However, I do not understand that the government parties are at all using energy to try to explain the high yield from State power with anything but that it is so high for purely budgetary reasons. If it had been a privately owned limited liability company that had made the arrangements made by the government and the big business, it would have been illegal under the Share Act and not in line with the share law. The government and big business signal is simply a treatment of this company, which is an important company for the state, which creates uncertainty, among other things. in relation to credit institutions, and which create uncertainty about the nature of the intentions — and level of ambition — of the owners with that company. The economic situation and the arrangements made have led to a lower credit rating for State power than the company should have. This is unfortunate and should be corrected. That is why it has been promoted a document No. 8 proposals to regulate the right to take dividends in this type of company, in the same way as in a limited liability company. It will be treated at a later stage. It is primarily for the purpose of obtaining favourable financing that the Centre Party considers it necessary to introduce new equity capital and to ensure that this company has a solid capital base that makes it a strong player in the Norwegian energy market in the future. With regard to the regional seed funds, which, hopefully, will be in place within a relatively short period of time, I refer to the contribution that the representative Fossli initially had on the Workers' Party and the Centre's position on this issue. In line with what several management environments have proposed, we propose that these funds be divided into several smaller funds. That is what we believe to be appropriate and will make it easier to get private capital for these funds. I must also be allowed to recall that the Central Party already a year ago believed that it was necessary to have a risk sharing of 70 pst. on the state and 30 pst. in private in order to be able to obtain private capital into these funds. It was only the Central Party that meant a year ago, and I now see that we have delayed the possibility of getting private capital, because it was not willing to go for such a solution a year ago. I am therefore pleased that it has come into place now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1746	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the representative Grethe Fossli believes that there are wise proposals the Government has put into this proposition. One that the representative didn't like so well, I'm going to come back to. But with regard to these district-oriented seed funds, I had to understand the contribution so that what the Government has now put forward in dialogue with SV – to make the funds more competitive, so that they can be implemented more easily – is something that also has the Workers' Party's support. We suggest a lower interest rate, we suggest an administrative grant and the state goes in and takes a higher share of the risk. When, hopefully, this has been knocked through in the UK in a short time, Innovation Norway will very quickly receive a letter setting them up again to try to get private investors to enter these district-oriented seed funds, which I believe can be an important addition to the other regional policy instruments we have. So this discussion of Statkraft and dividends has come back here. For the current financial year, the Government has a budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. The government parties and the Workers' Party agreed last autumn that we would charge a dividend of 95 pst. from Statkraft. Then the Stortinget has also added state power SEK 4 billion in extraordinary capital. In addition, the Government has proposed to Stortinget that a dividend of 78 pst should be collected. this year. The Government Parties have signed an agreement this year with the Advance Party, where these 78 psts. Stand still. But before this was knocked through, I wrote a letter to the Presidency and made it clear that there is reason to believe that the dividend percentage is not as high as 78 p.m., because it also has something to do with the periodication of both the document fee and some other revenues. We're probably going to be at a lower rate than 78 pst, so we're going to go down a little bit. This means that State power in the current year is likely to retain more than DKK 1 billion in the company in addition to the four billion that they received exceptionally. So this is a company that's recapitalised with over 5 billion dollars in a year, if you take profits plus this injection of equity. Then you have to be aware that Statkraft is a company that has grown heavily through the purchase of other companies. That is why we still have some unresolved issues — or, in order to be more precise, some of the issues that need to be addressed — related to those imposed by the Competition Authority. The company has grown strongly and now disposes of 40 TWh hydropower with its underlying companies. That's one third of the entire Norwegian production. It's a robust, good and well-run company that's recapitalised. This company has grown and has also received the injection of capital. If the company intends to make significant purchases in the years to come, it is right that a capital discipline has been established. In other words, if the company is to buy up something big, it must either acquire foreign capital or it must go to the owner, that is. The Government and the Storting, to then be added to new equity. When you sit on behalf of the community on 40 TWh and renewable hydropower, which is built up over decades, I think it's actually right that the owner, the Government and the Stortinget have a word with the team in relation to the future investments that might then be made and that might go beyond hydropowering. In fact, it is not that the company can buy so much more hydro in Norway today. It has been established by the Competition Authority. This will include purchases in the Nordic or European market, where coal, nuclear power and other non-renewable energy sources are in the picture. Would you like to mix it with hydropower? She can do that. It's going to be a discussion. But I think it's right that the owner gets those things on the table, and we do that through a capital discipline and a responsible policy in relation to Statkraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1759	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1763	It is an intention that Statkraft should grow, especially within the area of clean energy – so that is said. Governments come with these five billion dollars, but it won't be far enough to give State power a credit rating with which the big companies Statkraft will compete, and which, in terms of total energy, is often higher than State Power. I would like to quote from what former Minister of Industry said in the last debate, i.e. before this state budget was presented, i.e. the last decision that the Government should follow up: ‘I will, as always, seek to follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget.’ It was a matter of complying with the standard provisions of the Share Act in determining dividends for State power. Why has the Minister for Economic Affairs not followed up this decision on big business?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1779	The majority has adopted the financial position of the year, a compromise between the government parties and the Progress Party. In the draft budget, the Government proposed a dividend of 78 p.m., which was adopted by the Stortinget. The previous Roman Numeral Decision to which it is addressed, and the quotation from the previous Minister of Industry, is correct. But I've put a lot of emphasis on formally acting right here, and I suggested to Stortinget that the previous decision be lifted by a new Roman number decision. This has passed the Storting. You can agree or disagree on whether it should be 78 pst. dividends in years versus 95 pst. Last year, when we made a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party. But when one Council of State comes to the Storting with proposals for the lifting of one Roman number decision through another, and it goes through, I think it's unreasonable to begin to interfere with that kind of formalistic question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1791	This debate continues, and that is not so strange. It's no wonder that the parties of the Storting don't get beyond this debate, because it's a skinny comfort, the representative of Steensnæs tried to say that we have, after all, reduced the yield from 95 pst. to 78 pst. It is still the case that it is contrary to what private owners have to do with the provisions of the Share Act, and it is still an unfortunate trick in relation to the budget balance, in that we do not want to recognise the budgetary needs, and therefore we choose some reversals. Can't the Minister of Industry at least admit that the government at this point is actually doing something that any wise private owner wouldn't have done? I think that in addition to defending that Statkraft here has growth potential, and that you get $1 billion in profit, at least should be open enough to problemat it side by side, that one here does something that wise private owners wouldn't have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1798	Over the course of a year, State power has been spent more than 5 billion dollars, which they get to keep, after having had a long period of strong growth, where they have bought up other companies, and they have 40 TWh. State power is a well-managed company, and it will also be a well-managed company in the future with the profits of a majority of the Stortinget. The majority of the Storting has reduced the dividend yield from 95 pst. last year to under 78 pst. this year. Of course, I took responsibility for this. It is a wise policy in relation to the challenges facing the company. I also think it is right to have a capital discipline that allows the owner to influence the future choices for the company. It's obvious that parties that have actually voted for both 95 pst. and 78 pst., here in the debate has used that kind of word. Then I'm not going to the representative of Arnstad, who hasn't been involved in this in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1807	Øystein Hedstrom gets the last line. Otherwise, the president would have planned to hold the vote at this morning's meeting, but it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1812	It is not for nothing that many representatives of the Norwegian business community say that Statkraft is the energy company of some size in Europe that is least run by its owners. It doesn't say very little. I can find a lot of quotes on it. Statkraft's board, which acts commercially, says that the dividend can be up to 50 p.m., but you ignore it when you make the state budget. Nor are international analysts being consulted, including: Standard & Poor’s, which produced a report on State Power two days after the submission of the State budget, says that this will be a strong barrier to competition for State Power. My question is: doesn't the Council of State want Statkraft to be able to earn money for the owners, the Norwegian people, in an optimal way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1824	I noticed that the representative Hedstrøm was once again allowed to take up the formal attachment to the decisions. A Roman Numeral Decision was promoted and adopted by the Storting on the dividend basis on which the Government has based. The dividend is lower this year than last year, the company has been added SEK 5 billion in extraordinary equity, and the company has grown strongly. The government's policy is that we should now have capital discipline in the company, and the company has every opportunity to operate very well in the future. The company also makes money this year, we are happy for that. One billion kroner of this surplus will be retained and used by the company itself for what seems to be reasonable investments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1831	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 971]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1848	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 973]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1866	During the debate, 19 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 17, by Mr Ryan, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, by Aud Gaundal, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, 3-6, by Mr Ryan, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on proposals 7-16, by Mr Hedstrom, on behalf of the Progressive Party, on proposal No. 18 by Odd Roger Enoksen, on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 19 from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party The President first brings up the proposals outside the framework area. There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1907	Proposal No. 17, from the Socialist Left Party, if adopted, is expected to increase expenditure on next year’s budget. Consequently, the proposal is framework-dependent and, in line with the provisions of Section 19 of Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure, cannot be put to the vote; the proposal will therefore be regarded as lapsed. Proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party, the President’s assessment will also lead to increased use of funds in the 2005 budget, and it is therefore framework-dependent. It will therefore not come to voting and will be considered as a lapse. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7, 8 10 and 11–16, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e1979	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3, 4, 5 and 6, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e2015	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size empowers the Government to change the conditions of the national seed funds if it appears that they do not attract enough private capital.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e2030	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case for better organisation and management of state ownership so that the Storting can deal with it in the spring of 2005.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e2045	Then we have reached the framework areas 9,10 and 11. It is first of all a matter of voting on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party to the Framework Area 9. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e3882	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e5709	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e6308	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party also want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e7631	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party also want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e7644	In that case, there will still be a vote on non-framework decisions, and there will be a vote on I, II and IV first.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e7671	The Working Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party are behind these Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e7684	So it's going to be over III and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e7700	The Party of Workers, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are behind these Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e7803	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Grethe Fossli, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 3, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 950 item 95 Share capital Argentum fund investment AS, granted at NOK 1 800000000.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e7827	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e8390	All chapters and items with the exception of hoods will be voted on. 950 new heading 91.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e8401	It's getting so wet over the hood. 950 new heading 91. This is where the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-09.ana.ud1490e8783	We have finished with the case number. 1-4, and start the meeting at 4 p.m. 18 with case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
