ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e41	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 25 minutes, the Right 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group, and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e50	The 2005 tax arrangements of the Workers' Party involve some continuation of the level we have today. The tax arrangements of the Workers' Party have a fairer distribution profile than the proposals submitted by the Government, and what has now come out of the agreement with the Progress Party. Instead of new tax incentives, the Workers' Party will give more priority to funding for well-being. The Labour Party believes that the Government’s proposals for fiscal arrangements in the 2005 budget have an unsocial profile. Large tax relief to those with the highest income is financed by means of a VAT increase that everyone has to pay and by the removal of deductions that particularly affect individual groups, such as commuters. It is not right that the Right fiscal spokesman, Jan Tore Sanner, claims that the Workers' Party is in favour of increasing the level of taxation. If the conversion of the electricity tax, which was adopted in the context of the revised national budget in 2004, is excluded, we in the Workers' Party actually propose a tax relief in relation to the current level of the year. If we look at the level of fees in isolation, the government parties and the Progress Party will see to it that an increase of approximately DKK 4 billion is now adopted. This increase is against the Workers' Party. The increase in VAT will lead to more expensive goods and services for all. The increased VAT revenue is used, inter alia: to finance relief for those with high incomes and to reduce taxes on wealth for those who own shares. The budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party means that a person with income of approx. 200000 kroner will get about NOK 3500 less in income taxes. For a person who makes 1.2 million. However, the relief will amount to a total of DKK 19000 and one with a revenue of SEK 3 million. kr will get NOK 91000 less in tax. The Labour Party has difficulties in seeing how its partners can defend such an unsocial and unfair tax profile. It is not true that the Workers' Party is opposed to the proposal to raise the entry point for the top tax. We're going in to adjust the entry point in step 1 to NOK 368 500. The government proposed that the limit be set at NOK 381,000. At the same time, we go in to put the entry point in step 2 to NOK 800000, which is the exact same thing as the Government and the Advance Party agree. Furthermore, the Workers' Party wants the minimum deduction to be set at 31 pst, and the upper limit to 57 000 kroner, which will benefit them with low incomes. The government justifies the reduction in the top tax because this is necessary to liquidate the split model. And yesterday's debate used expressions like opening a door. Yes, there was a special debate yesterday. We heard that State Council Sponheim praised the agreement to those degrees. In particular, he attacked the divisional model and expressed joy at its closure, thanks to the agreement with the Progress Party. It's totally wrong, what was said yesterday. Government parties have an agreement with the Workers' Party in respect of the business tax and, in particular, the winding-up of the divisional model. The part of the progress was completely outside when it applied to the whole arrangement of the food tax. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to remove the split model because it opens up too many adjustments. The adaptation possibilities that can arise with our proposal for top tax combined with the shareholder model are small in relation to today's problems. We support the proposal to introduce the shareholder model because this means a convergence of taxation on capital and labour. The great injustice of today's system is that capital income, such as dividends and share gains, is taxed by 28 p.m., while labour income is taxed much harder. We have therefore always been in favour of a dividend tax from the Workers' Party, and are now satisfied that the Government is also going in to introduce the shareholder model. It must also be pointed out that even with the Government’s top-tax publishing house, the maximum marginal tax rate on labour would be higher than the capital tax rate. If you also include the employer’s fee, the difference will be significant. In the financial setting, the Workers' Party proposes that the basic fund certificate be endorsed with a 2 percentage point mark on the protection rate within the shareholder model. This proposal did not receive a majority, but we note that a majority in the Committee believes it is important that basic funds certificates remain a real alternative as funding for savings banks, and we state in the opinion that it is natural for the Government to assess the situation of the basic funds certificates after the shareholder model has been introduced. The Workers' Party supports the proposal for the introduction of the exemption method, which will prevent chain taxation in the company sector and resolve any problems with current rules in relation to EEA legislation. However, the Labour Party will stress the importance of the Ministry’s ongoing assessment of the need for measures to prevent unwanted adjustments in order to avoid tax now when introducing these new systems. The Workers' Party will also point out that the date of implementation, 26 March 2004, i.e. the date on which the tax notice was submitted, means that certain companies can be hit hard. Therefore, a majority of the financial committee considers that companies that have decided to wind up before 26 March 2004 should be entitled to deduct from the loss even if the realisation has not taken place before that date. It is assumed that it is indisputable and demonstrable that winding-up decisions are taken before 26 March 2004. The proposal for transitional rule B, new fifth paragraph, also mentions, in addition to the decision on liquidation taken by the general meeting of the company, the decision on the dissolution of the jurisdiction and the judgment in accordance with the provisions of the share law. Other cases where winding-up has been decided on are indisputably and demonstrable may also be covered. The demarcations must be carried out by the Ministry, in the regulation provided for in this field, to complete the transitional rule — in other words, to make the regulations more comprehensive at this point. In this setting, the Committee has introduced transitional rules for personally owned shares, which means that personally owned shares may be transferred to a newly formed investment company without taxation. The transitional rule is limited in cases where the newly formed company acquires a 90 pst interest. or more in the underlying company. Several taxpayers who together own at least 90 pst. in a company, the rule may apply. The government goes into its budget to clean up the tax deductions. It is then difficult to understand the logic of removing deductions related to the acquisition of income, such as the deduction for day-to-day work travel and the deduction for commuters, while favouring a sharp increase in the deduction of gifts to voluntary organisations. The Labour Party wants to keep the deductions for commuters, because we believe it is valuable that people choose to stay around the country even if they work in cities and towns. The Labour Party is pleased that the budgetary agreement includes an extension of the TaxFUNN to include unremunerated research efforts. Many small start-ups are based on a period of unpaid labour input, and it is precisely in such enterprises that it is necessary to stimulate research and innovation. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I address the proposals of the Workers' Party and the proposals in which we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e93	The representative Tore Nordtun has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e98	Throughout this harvest, the Workers' Party has criticized the government parties for giving the most to those who have the most from before. Because we're lowering marginal taxes, we're giving what the Workers' Party calls social tax relief. But isn't that exactly the same thing that the Workers' Party itself opens for today? By stepping in to remove the divisional model, the Workers' Party ensures that the richest people in Norway, those who have the opportunity to organise their business so that they can draw their income out as capital income, are greatly taxed. It will then be reserved for those who have the opportunity to organise their activities so that they can draw income as capital income. This means that the Workers' Party ensures that what they call social tax relief, not only becomes unsocial, but also unfair, because it will be reserved for a few. My question to the representative Tore Nordtun is this: Does the Workers' Party think it is possible that there are only a few, those who have the opportunity to organise their business differently, who will have the opportunity to receive large tax credits, or does the Workers' Party intend to introduce an additional capital tax in addition to the shareholder's model in order to avoid this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e105	The working party does not intend to introduce any separate capital tax steps after the introduction of this model. That's totally out of the question. But what is happening today — and that is why we are now in favour of the shareholder model — is that the split model agreed in 1992 has become increasingly eroded and powdered after 1992, so that tax evasions and loopholes have flourished over a long period of time. Then we believe that the system that we're now going to switch to, the shareholder model, is a much better system. Now we also get a broad majority of dividend taxes, which the Workers' Party has always been in favour of. There will also still be a little distance between capital taxation and the usual taxation of employee income. It will be. But we've taken a big step in the right direction. Even with the arrangement of the Government and the Advance Party, it will be a certain distance. On the contrary, injustice will be present, but it will be much less than before, and we will receive dividends tax, for which we have not received a majority in this House before.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e110	The representative of Nordtun claimed that the Labour Party is responsible for a more social and fair distribution profile. I have to admit that I have a little problem seeing it. For one who is paying NOK 110 000, the Progress Party has proposed a tax bill of NOK 6 355. It's not that much, but there's something that I think most people who care about NOK 110 000 will be quite happy with. On the other hand, the working party has proposed a tax relief for this income group of 363 kroner per year. years, i.e. an increase in purchasing power of approx. One penny per cent. day(s) On the other hand, one that is paying NOK 950,000 will receive a tax bill of NOK 6837. My question to Nordtun is: is it this Workers' Party believes with a fair and social distribution policy, that one with an income of NOK 110 000 gets NOK 363 in tax bills?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e117	I think that the representative Hagesetter operates with an old table before we adjusted, among other things. the minimum deduction. For example, the tables that we have and that I think we can say are indisputable show. an employee with an income of NOK 200000 with the arrangement of the Workers' Party will receive a tax relief of NOK 3600. We're going to go to an income of 1.2 million. kr, this employee with the Workers' Party's arrangements will receive a tax tightening of NOK 5 100. We think that's fair. Then we believe that we redistribute from them with the highest income to them with the lowest income. Now, when the Progress Party is with the Government to take away a number of issues in the tax system, such as deductions for commuters and over-expenses of disease, we immediately see that here the distribution is going to be quite different from what Hagesets are now trying to produce it as.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e124	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e127	In this draft budget, large parts of the Government’s proposals for tax reform are examined and adopted. The proposal is based on the tax release from this year, which was once again based on the work of the Tax Committee, which was led by former Minister of Finance Arne Skauge. In the debate in ours, there were comments related to the fact that this was not a broad settlement and that things were unclear. When we are adopted today Ot.prp. No 1, much of the uncertainty has been replaced by concrete, predictable decisions. Improvement of the tax system is an important part of the government’s economic policy. The objective is to make this simpler and fairer and to stimulate value creation both through improvements and by reducing the level of taxation. It is also necessary that the tax system complies with the EEA Agreement. The concrete elements of the reform consist of: removal of the divisional model, removal of the RISK system, removal of the compensation system balancing the difference between marginal taxes on capital income and labour income to stimulate increased labour input through the reduction of marginal taxes on labour improvement of capital taxes through the reduction and in the long term the removal of the specialnorse wealth tax; So today, the Co-operation Agency is being adopted. the shareholder model, which applies from 1 January 2006 the exemption method, which applies from the current year the removal of the divisional model, the RISK system and the remuneration rules from 1 January 2006 the reduction of the marginal tax on labour, for all income groups the reduction and improvement of the property tax the removal of the benefit tax on own-dwelling simplification of some deduction schemes the improvement and relief of the petroleum tax system the improvement and relief of the shipping tax system a number of other proposals mentioned in the suspension It must be emphasised that the tax reform is a whole that requires more measures to be implemented in parallel. The Aktionar model implies that dividends and gains in addition to a certain rate of return are taxed as general income. The model contributes to a fairer taxation by equal taxation of capital and labour income. The action model allows the split model to be phased out, which is unfair and definitely out of date. But there are two important assumptions relating to the shareholder model. Firstly, the increase in the marginal tax on capital must be combined with a reduction in the marginal tax on labour. If this is not done, the consequence will be that employees can convert labour income into investment income and take it out with significantly lower taxes. This obvious system error is strange enough to be found in the Workers' Party's proposals for reform. The lot insists on maintaining a marginal labour tax of 64,7 p.m. On the other hand, the tax on capital income becomes 48,16 p.m., and the difference in marginal tax becomes about 17 p.m. This becomes an open door of adaptability for highly paid labour. There is no doubt that highly paid lawyers, dentists, brokers, audit partners, advisers and consultants and others will avail themselves of this opportunity to adapt. This is a system error and a gift package for the ‘richest’, which the Workers’ Party, with its Robin Hood rhetoric, tends to call the high-income groups. For example, an employee who has an income of 3 million will. NOK, and they are actually part of it in Norway, could save NOK 374 000. in taxes by deducting the income from a limited liability company. The alleged resistance of the Workers' Party to giving relief to the richest becomes pointless when the party chooses to remove the divisional model without doing anything about the marginal tax rates. Secondly, the shareholder model must be combined with the reduction and preferably the removal of property taxes. This is a prerequisite for maintaining a competitive level of taxation on capital. Capital is a mobile input for business. Therefore, it is gratifying that in 2005 the government will cut the property tax by DKK 0.5 billion. The reduction is made by reducing the valuation of quoted shares to 65 p.m. of market value. The system is also brought into conformity with the EEA Agreement. In addition, the bottom subtraction is increased by 25 pst. in classes 1 and 20 pst. in class 2, so that less taxes on wealth are paid. The peculiar wealth tax is a problem for private ownership in Norway. It weakens the incentives for saving, and it only affects Norwegian owners. Over time, the property tax contributes to flagging out and low capital availability. It has strong distortive effects on the distribution between different types of investment in Norway and is unfair for some groups, for example: by taxing deposits much higher than real estate investments. The government will reduce and eventually eliminate the taxes on wealth. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left will, on the other hand, increase the wealth tax. Thus, the level of capital taxation in Norway will depend on the result of the elections in 2005. Whatever the reform or not, there will be an increase in the tax on capital if the majority goes to the socialist side. Therefore, this choice becomes a fate choice for enterprises and Norwegian private ownership. The exemption method provides for the exemption of shareholders from tax on profits and dividends from shares, while not deducting similar losses. This method prevents chain taxation and improves capital mobility. This method simplifies both for companies and for the equality authorities and increases non-discrimination between investments in Norway and the rest of the world. The exemption method fully complies with the EEA Agreement. The introduction of the exemption method is estimated to provide a tax relief for business of half a billion dollars. So the business community will have great benefits from the exemption method, which has a broad majority in the position. The exemption method is effective for dividends from 1 January 2004 and for gains and losses from 26 March 2004. This way of implementing the change in the rules means that, with some exceptions, company shareholders are not deducted from latent losses per year. this date. For some, this may seem burdensome. On the other hand, there is no doubt that the adjustment would be very extensive if the change was notified before it entered into force. Most liquid loss positions on shares owned by corporate shareholders would probably be realised if they were allowed to do so. Therefore, it is necessary to introduce the method in this way. The majority support the Government's proposal for a transitional rule. In addition, the majority proposes to deduct from the liquidation of limited liability companies if this was finally adopted by the general meeting of the company before 26 March. Following the assessment of the government parties, the transitional rules provide for a reasonable dampening of disadvantages, while respecting the requirement of non-discrimination and justice. An important objective of the reform is to allow share gains to be reinvested in industry without additional taxation. Personal shareholders will not initially achieve such a tax-free reinvestment option. However, the Government discussed in the proposal a transitional rule to ensure this. That is why it is very positive that an overall financial committee is now proposing this transitional rule. This improves capital mobility, and it gives taxpayers a fundamentally important choice. The left-hand side argues against the increase in VAT on goods and services, except on food. However, all income groups are thus reduced by the government’s arrangements. There is no doubt that a moderate shift in taxation from work to consumption is good for value creation in Norway. A large proportion of consumption is covered by imports and inflation is very low. Therefore, it is good economic policy to implement such a shift in taxation now, under the clear condition that the funds are used to provide relief in other taxes and taxes. For many years, the right has struggled to ensure that ordinary workers do not pay top taxes. When the Stoltenberg government crashed, there were 931,000 ordinary people who paid top taxes, and the entry point was 289,000 kroner in gross income. With the proposal adopted today, there are almost 250,000 workers who do not pay top taxes compared to when the government was overthrown by Stoltenberg, and the entry point is over next year's expected average income for full-time workers. It was just supposed to be missing, because the top tax was supposed to be for the high incomes, and I'm very happy that we're getting a long way in this field during this big time period. The housing tax is another repetition of the Norwegian tax debate. The housing tax is obviously unreasonable and arbitrary. For many, it is pointless to pay taxes on the so-called advantage of living in owner-occupied dwellings. It is quite interesting that the left-hand side asks for the repatriation of all dwellings in Norway in the attitude to tax reform from spring onwards, and indicates that other countries in Europe have higher taxes on housing. For the Government, this is out of date. People's houses and homes are paid with taxed funds, and it is an important breakthrough for the government parties that the house tax is now being removed until next year. The co-operation administration has provided significant tax reliefs to this grossing-up period, in total close to NOK 23 billion. Half is provided in the form of improved business framework conditions, the rest of personal taxpayers. Looking at the list of reliefs, there is no doubt that these alone and in total have contributed to increased activity and value creation in Norway. When we also have a reform that improves the functioning of the system, the tax reform, there is no doubt that fiscal policy has been very successful in this process. I would like to take up with this the proposals that have been promoted by the government parties, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e224	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e230	This is a huge tax reform. The system is very good, but the level is the Working Party disagrees with Right in. Because there is no doubt that Right will give most tax relief to those who already have a lot. Torbjørn Hansen is busy with the fact that ordinary employees do not pay top taxes. I am busy with ordinary workers in more contexts than that. And when Right is involved in removing and streamlining some very common deductions from ordinary workers, such as day-to-day work trips for commuters living in the districts and commuting to central strokes, allowances for commuters, deductions from large costs of illness, free food on the base and all this for which ordinary people no longer receive a deduction, then it becomes harder to be ordinary and poor – with this new tax scheme to the Right. My question to the Right is: does not the Right see the untimely in what they are now creating?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e239	I think that the representative Ranveig Frøiland in the way she asks the question, actually argues against his own message. Because if it is the case that ordinary people, most employees, have these deductions to which the representative of Frøiland refers, it is natural that these deductions should be covered by the minimum deduction and the general deduction schemes. The deduction related to daily work trips, for example, where those who have a longer work trip than 19.9 km still retain the deduction, while those who have a shorter work trip lose it, is a scheme that applies to too many. So the fact that we're increasing the minimum deduction is that you're still going to get a deduction for a whole bunch of costs, of which this is a part. In the case of the cost-reduction of commuters, to which the representative of Frøiland refers, this is a deduction that the high-income groups benefit from. They also get reduced top taxes. It is also true that some of these deductions are very imprecise in relation to the fact that more expenditure is deducted than what you actually have. So the clearing up of the deduction system that the Government is doing makes the system fairer, and that makes you contribute to increased value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e250	I have a question about the 26th of March that arises in relation to the exemption method. Now it's so that after that date you don't realize latent losses. This means that there are some companies that also have booked future tax advantages because of latent losses that they cannot realise. The EDB Group, which has a capital of SEK 1.5 billion, will then lose 1/3 of this capital, if agreed. The Board of Auditors, which was at the seminar of the Financial Committee, said that some companies could lose up to 50 p.m. of its book capital. My question to the representative Hansen is: how does he believe that e.g. will non-resident shareholders react when parts of the book capital of individual companies are confiscated by the State by this grip?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e257	As I said in my post, the exemption method makes it possible for shareholders to be exempted from tax on a gain between a limited liability company. It is a significant simplification and a significant relief for business and a change that is very positively received by the entire business community. This is a change in the tax system that gives half a billion tax credits and significantly improves the competitiveness of business. Interestingly, the Progress Party has chosen to vote against the exemption model, which is an important improvement in the tax system for business. With regard to the introduction of the exemption model, there is a demanding way to change the system, because the possibility of adaptation is very high if it is notified in advance. The introduction method here has to be seen in conjunction with the significant benefits that business has from the effective implementation of the exemption method. My impression is that the business community is very, very positive that this is now being implemented, and I am a little surprised that the Progress Party is voting against this improvement in the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e264	One of the conditions that today’s Norwegian economy is that we have low investments in the mainland economy. This is one of the reasons why unemployment doesn't go down any more, and one of the reasons why we don't have more optimism despite everything, although there's a rally at Oslo Stock Exchange. This tax message will reinforce this, because here you do the paradox, that you give relief in housing taxes, while you don't give relief in, for example. depreciation rate, which is a fully targeted instrument for raising the rate of investment in business. This means that if you have a lot of money, you can invest in housing to camouflage values and thus have passive investments that provide a safe return instead of taking the chance to invest money in business. For example, a reduction in the depreciation rate would: stimulating more investment in productive activities rather than having passive capital in housing. This is a paradox. So this business-friendliness that Right-flagged is not right if you go in and look at the reality of this. Let me just ask Hansen if he doesn't think there should have been anything done about this paradox? Shouldn't you have done the exact opposite? Shouldn't you have given relief to business through a depreciation rate, and also said that the house tax exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e271	I am very pleased that the representative of Djupedal and the Socialist Left calls for more tax relief for business. If they could have followed it up in their vote as well, it would have made it easier to improve the Norwegian tax system. It is a paradox that a party that goes in to increase the wealth tax – which is perhaps one of the most damaging to Norwegian value creation and access to Norwegian capital – is now annoyed by the removal of the house tax. If you look at the whole of the tax policy that is being pursued, with lower taxes on labour, lower taxes on capital, where you conduct a tight budgetary policy and improve the framework conditions for business, then there is no doubt that this government has a completely different rate of value creation and the organisation of investments in business than what, for example, is. The representative of Djupedal and the Socialist Left Party has.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e278	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e281	The Progress Party wants a lower tax level and a simpler and more prudent tax system than what we have today. In our alternative state budget, we have also taken seriously the challenges facing Norway. We believe that lower taxes are an important prerequisite for increased value creation. In our alternative budget, we have a total tax base of almost $8 billion. In addition, there will be a fee bill of more than 15 billion kroner and also a toll reduction of almost 2 billion kroner. Of course, we're happy with the taxes that were proposed by the Government, but we're different in some of the reinforcements. We also believe that the profile presented was very unsocial. In the budget submitted by the Government, it was then the most taxed to the rich and at least to those with a poor economy. According to our alternative state budget, for example: One that accounts for NOK 130 000, gets a tax bill of NOK 7 476, while from the Government side he would get a tax bill of NOK 1287. On the other hand, the Government has proposed a tax bill of NOK 750000 for one who thinks it is NOK 15 572, while the tax bill for the Progress Party is slightly less for this income group and the high income groups otherwise. For the one who's thinking $750,000, the tax bill is from us at $9321. So our starting point was what we've clearly learned in our alternative state budget, that it's important to distribute the tax credits to everyone. That was also the basis for our negotiations. There are some negative proposals from the Government, tax sharps that the Progress Party is opposed to in its alternative state budget. The only exception is for large costs of disease and intensification there. We thought it was unnecessary and unfortunate that an increase in the minimum limit from NOK 6 120 to NOK 9 180. The same applies to the tax exemption for the free-of-charge of seafarers and hire allowances for seafarers. This is also something we oppose in our budget. The reason why this is part of your salary, and it's very unfortunate to remove it. Restrictions on the right to travel allowances, also proposed by the Government, and the removal of the deduction of the cost of commuters are both proposals that we oppose, because we believe this will weaken the mobility of workers, which may be very unfortunate and lead to labour shortages in some parts of the country. The abolition of the tax rules on shareholder contributions is also something that we have opposed in our alternative state budget. When it comes to dividend taxes and the so-called exemption method, we still mean the same thing as we meant when the tax messages were treated. These changes are too bad. The interest rate on screen is too low on share capital, and it is also too low on borrowing. The big objection that we have to this is that we can now simply risk having the dividend tax implemented without removing the wealth tax. Since one has a choice between the time – today – when one decides to introduce the dividend tax, and the time when one wants to remove the property tax, one may risk having a completely different composition of the Stortinget than now and not removing the wealth tax. When it comes to the so-called exemption method, I found that the representative Torbjørn Hansen forgot to answer the question I asked. He talked about a lot of other things, but my question he apparently forgot on the go. March 26 is a date that will look very random. It is a company that will lose part of its book capital because of this date and because they will no longer be deducted from latent losses. We think that's going to be very unfortunate. I took advantage of my question instead of the EDB group, which may lose a third of its booked capital when this is agreed. I think that a lot of the 5,000 added there will be difficult to understand that their jobs are going to be more unsafe because their equity will be reduced due to a decision taken in the Storting. I also think there are some foreign owners and shareholders who want to have problems understanding it. This will give bad signals to both adders and owners. Here should be a few transitional arrangements that would have kept the booked capital at least. Activists who act directly come out worse than those who own them via companies. In this respect, it should also have considered better transitional arrangements than one has so far been achieved. Therefore, I would like to emphasise once again that the Progress Party is opposed to both the shareholder model and the exemption method, including in our subsidiary voting. But now there's something positive in the government's proposal to the government budget. Even before the Progress Party put in negotiations with the government party, it was positive things to read. It shall apply, inter alia: the elimination of the taxing of the advantage of own dwelling and recreational dwelling. These are positive proposals, which, of course, we fully support. This is a very illogical treasure, and it's time for him to be removed. Improvements in fleet taxation, so that fleet laws become more competitive internationally, are correct, and we support that. Improvements in the taxation of a company car and a professional car are a step in the right direction, and we will follow it on to see if this is sufficient, or if there is a need for further improvements. The maximum amount of questions for gifts to voluntary organisations has been proposed to increase from NOK 6000 to NOK 12000. It is also a proposal that we think is good and that we will support. Other tax credits that the Progress Party has in its alternative budget include: that the depreciation rates for machines in group d will be increased from 20 pst. until 25 pst. We have proposed that the tax FUNN scheme should be extended to include, in substance, unpaid start-up interests in individuals and AS. We have also had that effect in the negotiations. We are very pleased that the careful entrepreneurs who do not take out owner-pay in the start-up phase will benefit from the tax deduction. We are also going to go in order to increase the credit card limit to NOK 40,000, and to increase the special deduction for age and disability from NOK 18 360 to NOK 20 360. Our alternative state budget therefore has a much better social tax profile than the government's proposal. Our budget would also have facilitated economic growth better than the other budgets that have been presented. But now we are in the situation that the solutions in our alternative state budget, despite the good qualities in it, will not get multiples. That is why, in a subsidiary way, we will join in the improved draft budget and in the changes made by the Government Party. After the Rounds of Negotiations with the Progress Party, this makes some changes which, in most cases, go in the correct direction from the Progress Party's stand. In this agreement, the government's taxpayers are also held by layers. We've got an increase in total tax breaks, and we've got a much better social profile than what was proposed. As we consider it, it is better with a small step in the right direction than a long step in the wrong direction, which could quickly be the result if the Progress Party and the Government Party had not become some. But I want to repeat: we are against the introduction of the dividend tax and also the exemption method, also in our subsidiary voting. Finally, I would like to raise the Progress Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e321	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e326	No matter what Hagesets and the Advance Party may say, one has to note that during the vote here today, the Advance Party is failing the commuters, but that is perhaps what is ‘subsidiary to show a constructive attitude’. It is an expression used by the Progress Party. A reference to the exemption model, where they oppose the exemption model, states that they wish to ‘subsidiaryly adopt a constructive approach’. Understood: they don't want to be so constructive. What's very confusing is that the Progress Party is going against the exemption model, but at the same time they are supporting a transition rule to a model that they're opposed to. Where's the logic, and what's the progress party here actually mean? Otherwise, I have found here both today before in the debate and yesterday that we have referred to a tax table that shows the consequences of the Workers' Party's tax regime, which should be so unsocial. In fact, it was claimed that with an income of NOK 110 000, a NOK 363 was paid in tax bills. It's directly wrong. One gets $2,500 in tax bills according to our tables. If you want to use our tables, at least one must be fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e333	Of course, the Progress Party has an alternative state budget, where we have our primary priorities, and so we have been negotiating on that basis. Then we've got some improvements, but of course we haven't got everything we wanted. But at least we have a much more social tax profile than what it was added to by the Government. We have a tax relief, especially for the low income groups, which is considerably better than the government's proposal. To a certain extent, it has been at the expense of having a slightly lower tax burden on those with high incomes. This means that even if you're commuting, one in most cases will come out with a significant tax return. We're happy about that. Alternatively, if there had been negotiations with the Labour Party, I believe the result would have been the opposite, that there would have been tax cuts for large groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e339	You don't always see the policies of the Progress Party, and it's not always as easy to follow what they mean at all times. Their Grand Election Programme for this period states that the Progress Party will have the lowest possible overall tax burden, and a very large proportion of the tax chapter is devoted to progressive taxation, which they believe is particularly unfair, socio-economically unfortunate, hampering employment and leading to large wage increases. Now, on the other hand, we feel that the Progress Party in its alternative budget does not reduce the rates of the top tax. The fact that the Progress Party wants a higher top tax and greater progressiveness than the government's proposal is new. I think the representative Hagesetter must explain to me what has really happened to the Progress Party. Does this program not apply to the entire period? Can you no longer trust the Progress Party in tax matters? Isn't the Progress Party no longer a tax play for everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e346	The step-by-step party is the tax lighter lot No. 1 in Norwegian policy. We have also shown that in our alternative state budget. So there's a tax and tax bill for 25 billion dollars more than what the government has proposed. But now it's actually the way we're concerned that everyone is going to get tax relief, not just those with very high incomes. That's why we have a slightly different profile on our tax havens. We also have tax breaks that are inside. We're busy with border trade. We're busy getting everyone out better. That's why we were forced to give slightly smaller tax credits in the absolute highest incomes, than what Right had suggested. But all groups, both low-income groups and high-income groups, have received significant tax credits with the arrangement of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e351	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e354	SV's tax regime has three main focus. It's fairer distribution, it's tax exchange for the benefit of the environment, and it's not least better value creation. These are three crucial carriers for a fair and forward-looking tax system. That's this focus SV has to succeed with this. That means we're essentially redistributing. We redistribute significantly through taxes to the benefit of those who have the least, and to the benefit of the environment. But we've also continued the tax level from last year, about this level. That means that we give tax relief to those who have personal incomes up to approx. NOK 381 000. From there up to 10 G, which is approx. I'll give you $587 000, I'll give you moderate tax incentives. They get tax incentives with SV's arrangements. For SV, it is also important that we have a viable and competitive business. This means that we are doing a lot of good work for the business community, which allows business to move forward, not least by opting for a better depreciation rate and a lower employer's fee, which are two important goals in getting investment and employing people. This is combined with various environmental measures that give us a change in the environmental direction, as well as a general increase in the tax rate of 1/2 percentage points. This is important, because we need a tax system that looks ahead – and not backwards. The most important thing is not necessarily the lowest possible tax. All empirical evidence shows that having a welfare state with a high tax level in itself is conducive to competition. So the tax system must contribute to efficiency, but also contribute to financing the welfare state. In the SV’s view, the competition that individual parties have in this room, primarily on the lowest possible tax, is almost pointless low tax. For all experience, the most viable societies are those with a high level of common consumption. And if we're going to have a high common consumption, we're going to have to have taxes. Many of the proposals that were debated in the Chamber yesterday in connection with the budget are those contained in proposals here. There are many unsocial proposals, which, in SV's opinion, go in a completely wrong direction, and which, in SV's opinion, are not special – let's say – forward-looking or business-friendly. Let me just go through some of them. The first is to provide relief in the property tax for the valuation of shares and shares in securities funds. In SV's opinion, this is a completely meaningless tax relief of a total of 350 million. kr. So that's 350 million. kr in tax relief to Norway’s remotest richest people, completely without goals and meaning. This is tax such as: a man of whom Rimi-Hagen will greatly appreciate, for he has organized his corporate structure so that it is in this type of company he has spent all his money. That means he no longer needs to be taxed by the value of all his shares, he's only to be taxed by 65 pst. by them, in other words, a pure gift package. This is justified by the Government and by the majority as an EEA requirement, namely that there must be non-discrimination between foreign and domestic shareholders. In that case, it would be a natural consequence of raising the foreign shareholders to 100 pst. of valuation. Because, in the SV's view, there is no logical reason why shareholders should receive a tax discount for owning shares. In the SV's view, this is a very good example of how to give meaningless tax relief to those who do not need it at all. 350 million. tax relief could have favourably been used either for tax relief for those who have the least, or for common consumption in the many different sectors that obviously need money. Let me mention another tax relief that, in SV's opinion, is also unfortunate, and that is the removal of the house tax. The most important thing here, in the SV's view, was to create a fair fare system, so that those who have normal housing would not be taxed, while those who have large dwellings would contribute to the community. What we're seeing now is that municipalities are being forced into higher property taxes simply because it has to expand somewhere. And when you have a situation where the municipalities have very bad advice, you see that there is a lot of creativity to get income for the common consumption. What you're doing here, in SV's opinion, is pure tax population. The wisest thing would have been to keep the level we have, and to ensure a fair fare system, so that dwellings initially got an equal value, no matter where in Norway they are. The paradox in this is that this will make housing prices in Norway even more expensive. It will mean that it will be easier to invest in housing as a mere money placement, and thus avoid taxation, instead of using those who have money to invest in productive business, which also creates jobs, growth and progress. The paradox is also that the Government in the tax notice suggests that an extension of the document fee is also required for residential property, which in turn will make it more expensive for young people to enter the housing market. SV goes in the opposite direction. We want to remove the document fee for young people, simply because it is necessary for young people to enter the housing market. It's one of the big bottlenecks for young people today. The major changes in this position are mainly related to the shareholder model and all the different tax changes associated with this model. The Aktionar model is better than not having a tax on dividend dividends. And I have to allow myself to say that it is with some satisfaction that I record that the Right, and especially the Minister of Finance Foss, who has been for many years the one who has relied the most on introducing taxes on dividends, is now the one who is being forced to introduce it. Tax on dividends on shares is obviously social and obviously fair. If you look at how the dividend is distributed over the last few years, I would say that this has been a barricade of opportunities to escape for those who have a lot of money. In 2002, NOK 42 546 billion of non-taxable dividends were paid. This had gone up from the year before, when there was tax on dividends, from NOK 13 billion. 2002 is the last year you have figures for the whole year. But there is every reason to believe that for 2003 the figure was even higher. What this means is that we are now getting tax on dividend dividends, which in SV's opinion is a right and fair claim. But the model chosen here is difficult, and it's also easy to get around. It is particularly related to this relationship of protection, which in SV’s view is the problem. We've wanted a model that takes more account of the fact that the determination of different capital objects must be somewhat similar, and also of another model, which ensures that you don't have this shielding deduction. We have wanted a model that is more in line with the initial proposal of the Skauge Committee, because this model, as proposed here, is not in line with the proposal of the Skauge Committee. We want to introduce dividend tax, but we want a different model than what is proposed here. SV's model will require some further investigation, which means that in this setting we propose tax on dividends on shares, traditional taxation of dividends, in line with the model Stortinget has previously entered into. Let me also mention that SV is in favour of relief from the depreciation rule, and I have affected it several times, but let me take this, because this is an important point. Norway has a high cost level, with a high productivity. If we are to contribute to the continuation of high productivity, which makes Norwegian industry and business competitive, we must allow a higher rate of investment than we have today. The fact that we have low investment rates in mainland Norway is a major problem for Norwegian industry. Providing incentives through increased depreciation will mean investing in more productive equipment, which will enable us to maintain more competitive business. I am very surprised that the so-called business-friendly government chooses to ignore this kind of tax relief, which is targeted and accurate, and instead does many other things that are not really accurate, such as: relief in taxes on wealth for Rimi-Hagen and his like. This is a pointless and pointless tax relief compared to a rigorous tax relief that promotes business-friendliness, as SV wishes. In this setting, we have a number of different proposals, and I am promoting them. We will also vote against large parts of the setting available here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e386	The representative of Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e391	The parties to the government remove the house tax because the dwellings are purchased with already taxed funds. We remove the house tax because it is arbitrary and unfair because of different equation values, and because it is required regardless of the level of payment and income. People think of it as a pretty unreasonable tax. The Socialist Left Party, on the other hand, writes that they are opposed to the removal of the house tax. They believe that house taxes, property taxes and property taxes “must be seen in the context”, as they so cryptically write. In connection with the tax reform, the socialist parties asked for a new tax base for housing. So you're rigging into a housing tax system for powerful tax incentives. It was also shown that increasing the housing tax and property tax would bring the Norwegian system into line with the level in the EU. My question is: can the representative of Djupedal say anything about what ambush Norwegian owners can expect if the socialist parties have the opportunity to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e400	Over many years in this room, SV – and also other parties – have been busy getting a fair tax system. We almost succeeded in the time of the Bondevik I government. Then we were about to get to a system that made it possible for approx. half of all owners of dwellings are exempt from house tax. I think about 20 pst. were at today's level, while with the largest dwellings they received some increased housing tax. The point is to want a fair tax system – to create a fair tax system. The right has always opposed this. They have, of course, done this because they want to use this as an example of how unfair housing taxes are. But house tax is a fair form of tax. It's part of what makes those who have the most contribute the most, and part of the social contract we have, that those who have the most contribute to the community. Right wants to systematically undermine the whole of the Community's thinking underpinning a fair tax system, which is what SV wants to ensure. The right is otherwise entirely indifferent with its sister parties in every country in the world. There is housing the largest tax item – far above all other conceivable tax items. The right is a specific international view in this respect. First of all, we want a fair system of taxation, so that we can get a fair tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e411	It is a familiar melody that one in SV wants tax incentives for large groups. A tax on dividends and keeping the property tax, which makes it cheaper to own Norwegian business from abroad than from Norway. One would like to do so. also that one should tax the riders much harder than their competitors in competing countries become. My question is: does the representative Djupedal not believe that a tax policy with this hold would have led to the flagging out of Norwegian companies and the loss of Norwegian jobs if he had been implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e418	Let me just correct the Hagesets: he can't have read the settings. Most of what he said about SV's proposal was wrong. Let me say: we want a tax system where you increase the taxes by 2.2 billion kroner, booked. The main steps we're doing relate to redistribution. This means that those who have the strongest back must bear a greater share of the burden, while those who sit at the bottom of the table should receive tax relief. In the personal tax, we give up to NOK 381 000, which is the point of entry for top taxes, but we do not want any increase in VAT – something the Government and the allies of the government parties, the Progress Party, do – which means a tax relief of NOK 1700 for all income groups above that. This means that you have to earn more than 400,000 kroner before, on the SV's proposal, you get tax tightening. Those who serve more than this should, in the SV's view, pay more to the community and thus contribute to school, education, kindergartens — i.e. all that is important. We give business total tax relief. They get another type of tax, which promotes environment and forward-looking investment, and which promotes work, which is the most important thing in this country. We must take care of the labour force, and I assume that the Progress Party will initially agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e427	I asked the representative Kristin Halvorsen to reverse all the tax reliefs they have criticised the Christian People's Party for having participated in any government cooperation until the fall. Would SV, if they came into government, propose to reverse all the tax reliefs that they have put us in the Christian People's Party to be responsible for being on? At this, the representative of Halvorsen replied that it was irreversible – she used that word. I'm experiencing something of the same now. We don't get a real answer. Would SV propose to reintroduce the housing tax if they came to government for the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e434	Firstly, I believe that the Christian People's Party must take responsibility for what they themselves do in government. I think this was a typical example of trying to blame the opposition for the defects and defects in the lot itself. That the Christian People's Party is tormented by the profoundly unsocial policy that the right-wing government has imposed on the country for a long time, I understand. We see that the foundation of the Christian People's Party is also pained by this. That's perhaps why the Christian People's Party has become smaller than it was when they came into government. The SV alternative budget looks like this. It is on the Internet, accessible to anyone who would like to read it. Here's all we want to do. This is what SV will go to when it comes to tax. If the voters want it is possible that we can form government the next harvest. Then there will be several parties that have to sit together around a table and agree on what that government is going to think about tax. SV's starting point for taxes is that we want to take this to that table – given that the voters give us the opportunity. We're pretty humble about this. First, we have to make a choice. But we're not ashamed to say that SV is for a fair tax system. And we're not ashamed to say that we don't promise pointless tax relief to those who have the most, which the Christian People's Party has unfortunately been on for years now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e444	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e447	Initially, I will reply to what was the theme in the previous line. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the house tax falls away. It's a tax that affects most people, and we're proud to have the programming party to implement that we take away taxes on ordinary people's houses and homes. Today's debate is a follow-up and a consequence of yesterday's debate and decisions in the Storting. It shall implement the legislative amendments necessary to comply with the adopted budget. Of the changes we have to deal with today, there are three areas in particular that it is important for the Christian People's Party to mention: the steps taken in relation to a new tax reform extension of the tax deduction scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations, gain taxing for the transfer of agricultural property; The most important task of the tax system is to provide income for community overheads. The way this happens, it's not immaterial. If you're going to pay into society's common fund, there's a reasonable expectation in people that it has to happen in a fair way. One of the main problems today is that the tax system is not fair, thereby undermining the legitimacy of the tax system. In our report, the Stortinget dealt with the tax return, and in the 2005 state budget, the first steps are taken to follow it up. The objective of tax reform is a better and fairer tax system and a reduced level of taxation. This contributes to increased value creation and a safeguard of well-being. Tax reform is a comprehensive reform. It's a system reform and not an à la carte menu that you can pick freely from. It is a reform that is linked. Some of the changes give rise to tax increases, others give tax credits. The sum is a fairer, predictable and business-friendly tax system. It is important for value creation, and it is important for the legitimacy of the tax system for most people. In the municipality of Lund in Rogaland, there is a small enterprise with twelve employees making threshing shoes. There are important jobs in District Norway. The small farm, Eik Treskofabrik, has been worth about seven million. kr on the market. The company has built up over the year and in the summer has made great success with coloured Norwegian wood shoes. But they have a clear challenge for me: Remove the sharing model. We've managed to go with a profit that we want to keep in the company for new investments, and we don't understand that any of these are to be taxed as wages. The divisional model, which was to separate employee income from entrepreneurial income, does not work as intended, and the Government made proposals to introduce new models, among them the shareholder model, which is to take care of those intentions. It is positive that there is a majority in favour of the proposal to introduce the shareholder model. It implies that dividends and gains in addition to a certain amount of income are taxed as general income. This model contributes to a fairer taxation. Labour income and capital income will be taxed more equally. This means that at the moment when a person withdraws income for private consumption, a tax is to be paid approximately as if it were for employee income. Using a money to develop the company or invest in other companies and contributing to job creation, one still has to pay only 28 pst. tax. The introduction of the shareholder model alone would be to introduce a net tax tightening. That is not the purpose of the tax reform. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to see the entire tax reform in the context. The Christian People's Party is in favour of the introduction of the exemption method which prevents the multiple taxation of share income in a chain of ownership with Norwegian companies. This new arrangement also eliminates the right to deduct the costs of shareholders. There is therefore a need for transitional rules where companies may require deductions from the realisation of shares after 26 March if it can be demonstrated that the winding-up proceedings had been initiated before 26 March. The proposal for transitional rules refers to the fact that, in addition to the liquidation of the general meeting of the company, decisions on the dissolution of the jurisdiction may also be used. Judgments in accordance with the provisions of the Share Act may also be the basis for such deduction. It is important here that it is made clear in the regulation that if it can also be demonstrated by other means that the intention is to wind up, it should be subject to the transitional provisions. The tax reform also involves a review of the deduction arrangements. Some deductions may be appropriate to remove against a higher general minimum deduction. The voluntary organisations make an invaluable effort for children and young people, yes, they do an invaluable welfare effort for the whole of society. Together with good welfare schemes, voluntary organisations contribute to the community’s efforts and capacity to thrive and to the quality of life, and Norway is a good country to live in. By volunteering and commitment, many people are also allowed to use other aspects of themselves than they do at work or at school. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that voluntary organisations have stable and good financial conditions for their social work. We are therefore very pleased that there is a majority to follow up the objective of the Sem Declaration of further strengthening the voluntary organisations. The maximum deduction limit for gifts to non-governmental organisations will therefore be extended from NOK 6000 to NOK 12 000. I am surprised to note that the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left want to remove the whole system, and that the Socialist Left sees gifts of tax deduction as a threat to public revenue. Gifts with tax credits are not a threat to, but a positive supplement to, the public support schemes. Let's hope the giver's joy to the volunteer organizations is increasing sharply. The reduced tax revenues are money well spent. Providing the voluntary organisations with liberal conditions is a good economy for society. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the income tax on the realization of agricultural property. Today, the sale of agricultural property may occur without a profit tax when the owner has had the property for more than 10 years. This rule is hereby repealed. The majority of the Committee is in favour of excluding family transfers of agricultural property from income tax, i.e. to continue the ten-year rule for family takeovers so that generation shifts can continue on non-commercial terms and introduce tax on gain on other transfers. If you sell a farm out of the genus, you should pay taxes on the gain. For the Christian People's Party it is important that there should still be reasonable changes within the family. It has been a tradition that the country should not benefit from family transfers in agriculture. The Christian People's Party is engaged in a fair, predictable and business-friendly tax system. We are pleased to see increased deductions for gifts to non-governmental organisations. And we want good framework conditions for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e496	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e499	It has also been discussed in this position by the Financial Committee on the position of the Foundation's certificates, i.e. the sources of funding for the savings banking system in Norway. The Christian People's Party has previously been associated with a majority here in Stortinget that the Foundation certificates should continue. Although savings banks now had the opportunity to reorganize, basic funds certificates should have a safe and good position, and we should continue them. It has been expressed both in the tax notice and in the credit notification, and now in the cancellation has, among other things, The Working Party and the Centre Party shall state that this must be continued. But I'm recording that the Christian People's Party is not in it. Does this mean that the Christian People's Party now shares the ministry's views on this matter, such as: does the basic fund certificates not need additional protection in the shareholder model when introduced from 1 January 2006?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e508	The Christian People's Party is in the position of the foundations. Basic evidence is an important source of equity financing for savings banks. Basic funds certificates shall remain in a strong and independent position. In order to maintain the basic fund certificates as a real alternative, it is natural for the Government, as an overall committee says in the suspension, to assess the situation of the basic fund certificates when the shareholder model is introduced in 2006. Then one will come back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e513	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, says that the tax reform is a holistic reform, some of which loses and some tendons. That's probably right. I will address the same question that I tried to ask Torbjørn Hansen about the 26th of March problem, which leads to latent losses that cannot be realised after this time of this year with retroactive effect. So that means that the companies that have a booked future tax advantage because of this can't keep it anymore. This means that the book capital will be reduced. It could be up to 50 pst. of the capital thus confiscated by the State. My question to the representative Tørresdal is if she does not believe that this can be perceived as highly unparalleled both by shareholders and by members, when the state is thus confiscating up to 50 pst. of the book capital of individual companies under this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e522	It is right that the representative Gjermund Hagesetter says that this is a comprehensive reform, and it is important that we have a tax reform that is fair and that is fair. With the introduction of a new system, it is right that the possibility of deduction should be changed and that transitional rules should be provided for some of those most affected by the introduction of the new model. But back to the whole of the model: as also was said by the representative Hansen, it is the whole and the justice of the companies that are to be cared for here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e531	Bjørg Tørresdal was busy with voluntary teams and organisations having stable financial conditions. Does it get when one is dependent on the individual's giver from year to year? The one who is best to praise the well-being of the people of the village and the wallet will be pleased. One year it could be the sports battle, next year the Salvation Army and the third year it could be 4H. Is there stable financial conditions for the job to be done by teams and organisations? SV was in the multiples that changed the key. Voluntary teams and organisations should have a greater share of the key, just to provide voluntary teams and organisations with stability and care. We're increasing in SV's alternative budget the key and the escalating of him by 56 million. kr. And then we have 20 million. to voluntary teams and organisations of the Ministry of the Environment’s budget. Seventy-six million. kr – is it a down-priority of voluntary teams and organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e538	In the case of support for voluntary teams and organisations, it is not a question of either – or, it is a question of a boat – and. Like the representative of the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party wants to provide increased transfers or channel very much of the welfare funds through the voluntary organisations, both in its own country and outside aid organisations. This is about government transfers. One is happy to ensure the economy and stability of the economy and, in addition, to increase the economy – not just safe, but to increase it. When a gradual increase in the gift allowance has been made, it has been shown that the revenue of non-governmental organisations has increased. It is a positive form of stability that gift income increases and improves the economy. Each crown invested in non-governmental organisations is a crown invested in effort and effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e545	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e549	Tax reform should be broadly based and should be implemented in a comprehensive and coherent manner. It is natural that businesses, which have the most long-term and predictable needs, have such expectations for tax reform. It is a pity that we then have a bit of discussion and implementation of this tax reform. In business, I think it is particularly the small and medium-sized enterprises that need changes and improvements. Very many of them are family businesses. Most in this group are not covered by the changes we are discussing today. In recent years, significant tax relief and system changes have been implemented, while tax reform has been prepared. Over DKK 20 billion in annual tax reliefs are gigantic transfers. We've calculated that this annual sum, if it had been invested in a fund, would have been a pension fund of $1270 billion by 2050, with an interest rate as low as 1.5 pst. The declared restrictions in popular peace could then have been significantly reduced, if that choice had been made. The central party strongly disagrees with the government's tax relief profile in this and in the previous budget. It's unfair because there's bigger differences. It's anti-equality, and it's district hostile. The centre party is pleased that there is now a broad consensus to remove the sharing model and the RISK system and introduce income taxes on the income from shares of persons holding shares. The centre party has long considered that tax-free dividends and the possibility of converting labour income into capital income have been the greatest injustice in our tax system. It is a pity that the interim dividend tax from the Plaza settlement in 2000 was lifted after one year and was not retained until a new system was in place, as the agreement was at the time. Repeal has provided enormous tax relief, contrary to the view of the Central Party on what is a fair tax system. Very much of the company's equity has been paid out, beyond what would otherwise have happened. The lot should have had a new dividend tax as of 1 January 2005, but it accepts that it is not feasible. The centre party will have a tax system that stimulates active private and long-term ownership. We believe that the proposed shareholder model will be an appropriate tool to achieve this. The centre party is satisfied that the protection rate in the shareholder model is determined, as proposed in the tax release in spring, according to the tax value of the annual average of government bonds with a five-year maturity in the income year. The savings banks' basic fund certificates will be included in the shareholder model. The central party had expected the government to propose a higher protection rate for the basic fund certificate based on the arguments presented to the finance committee in ours. The centre party maintains that the protection rate for the basic fund certificate is set at 2 pst. higher than shares in order not to weaken the position of the basic funds certificates by the reform. The centre party does not agree that the marginal pay tax rates need to be significantly reduced in order to avoid adverse adjustments. We believe that the most effective way to increase labour supply is to reduce taxes on means and lower income. All logic and experience show that those with income above the entry point two in the top tax work full day and well and will not be encouraged to work more of lower marginal taxes. The centre party does not consider that there is a need for direct compensation for those who have been able to collect tax-free dividends in the form of reduced top taxes, reduced taxes on wealth and the loss of housing taxes. It's the business community and those with low and medium incomes that the Center Party wants to make easier. The centre party also supports the introduction of the exemption method for shares owned by companies. The exemption method prevents so-called chain taxation. The centre party believes that the transitional arrangements we are now receiving are necessary and sensible. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is important that the various parts of the tax reform are continuously evaluated from day one, in order to prevent unwanted adjustments. There have been a lot of warnings that this could happen in the process we've had. It is regrettable that there is still no recommended model for the taxation of the majority of enterprises, those which are owned privately or which are closely linked. It is important to clarify quickly for that group of companies, where we find the many small and newly created enterprises. Typical of these is that the ownership risk is greater than in an AS in which only the share capital can be lost. This increased risk has to be reflected in lower dividend taxes. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposal that the Central Party has in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e581	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he himself made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e584	In the 2005 draft state budget, the co-operation administration is taking two important steps: 1. reduced taxes on income and increased taxes on consumption2. equal to taxes on labour and capital income and thus a removal of the split model Both are important left-overs. The left will have a flatter tax and a more efficient, simpler and more environmentally friendly tax system. However, the left does not want a general tax and tax tightening. Difor is left satisfied with an increase of 1 pst. VAT is used to provide tax relief for those with the lowest income through increased minimum deductions and credit card limits and a lower peak tax. In the tax reform of the Cooperative Government, two key tax principles are: 1. reduced marginal tax2. equal income must be taxed equally Lower marginal taxes are particularly important for those with low incomes and those who work part-time. In practice, a lower marginal tax means that one is left with more after tax on the last penny a dime. In other words, lower marginal taxes give clear incentives for increased labour input, and at the same time make it easier to work out, for example. a financial disaster. By increasing the rate of the minimum deduction and raising the ceiling, we reduce the marginal tax on those with low and medium incomes. With the government's proposal, 325,000 Nordics received between 100000 and 200000 kroner of tax. Many part-timers now get a stronger incentive to work extra. For elephants and students, the free card is important. It is therefore gratifying that we have had an impact in order to increase the credit card limit to NOK 30 000. The greatest injustice in today's tax system is discrimination in the taxation of capital and labour income. In a fair tax system, equal revenues must be taxed equally, regardless of how we view them. This injustice manifests itself in the divisional model. The left has been fighting the split model for 12 years, from the day it was introduced, and today the split model is being removed. This is what we see as a great saying. When the Government now proposes to lower the top tax rates, this grip must be seen in conjunction with the introduction of the shareholder model. By reducing peak rates and increasing marginal tax on high profits for private consumption, a much higher level of taxation will be achieved. Ordinary people in full-time work, with ordinary incomes in general, shall not pay top taxes. The average income for full-time employment in Norway is today NOK 355000, and it is said that an entry point of NOK 354 300 is unparalleled. The left is satisfied with the fact that the Co-operation Administration has been given a hand in raising the entry point to NOK 381 000, and I would like to stress that in the time that the Co-operation Government has ruled, a total of 235,000 Norwegians with normal income have paid less top tax. I am pleased that the Labour Party supports the introduction of the shareholder model, but the representative Nordtun reacted to the fact that the State Council Sponheim yesterday said that it was thanks to the agreement with the Progress Party that the sharing model is being removed. He's right at one point. The Labour Party supports the introduction of this shareholder model, but the Labour Party does not support the reduction of taxes on ordinary income. The working party opens up that the rich, who can convert their income into capital, will have to pay less to the community than those who do not have that possibility. For this reason, State Council Sponheim is right in saying that the Labour Party supports the removal of the sharing model, but they fail to implement the measures to be taken to do so. It is positive that the individual builds up wealth, providing security for the individual and making it possible to build up capital that can be invested in productive activity. The tax system should contribute to a good framework for private ownership and stimulate innovation and investment. The extraordinary wealth tax has several serious weaknesses that do not conform to this objective, while at the same time allocating some assets to others. The left is satisfied that we have now had an impact on the removal of preferential taxes on our own housing. We don't want this world to be a treasure item. We're pleased that the government in ours presented a tax reform that provides lower marginal taxes to most people, removes the sharing model, increases the bottom-up tax, ensures that no top-up taxes are paid on ordinary income, introduces high dividends for private consumption, removes the benefit tax on own property and has a liquidation plan for the peculiar wealth tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e628	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e631	May Britt Vihovde was in a post that I had earlier today, and yesterday's post by State Council Sponheim, about the sharing model and what support it has. In later articles, I will come back to the relationship between capital and labour income and taxation of this. However, for the Workers' Party, it was important to create a tax system for enterprises and industries that had long-term sustainability, and which remained firm by a large majority. Left praised in yesterday's debate the support of the Progress Party for the introduction of the shareholder model. But Hageseter, the representative of the Progress Party, clearly said in his speech today that the shareholder model was completely against them. Is it still in the Progress Party Left to seek support for the introduction of the shareholder model?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e638	I sincerely hope that the Labour Party has not intended to change its mind about voting today. I believe that the Workers' Party supports the Government in introducing the shareholder model. The party of progress is opposed because they see this in the context of reduced taxes on wealth. Our government, and the Left, want to introduce the shareholder model, but at the same time we also want to remove the property tax, and it doesn't signal the Workers' Party that they want to. But we are actually getting an impact on our tax reform, with some support from the Labour Party for some grips and some support from the Progress Party for some grips. Then we're going to have a tax reform with a cure, and I think that's the best thing for most people and for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e645	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e648	The coastal party wishes to contribute to a value-conservative centre profile for the 2005 tax and tax package. The coastal party will point to the socio-economic importance of ensuring safe and cheap food. The tax on food should be abolished. It will provide a basis for lower wage demands and thus improve the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. Discharge of the food tax could limit commercial leakage. The coastal party therefore proposes to remove the food tax. The coastal party would point out that in high-cost Norway it is particularly important for employment that Norwegian labour force is not too heavily burdened by taxes and taxes. In the case of increased minimum deductions and lower employer charges, jobs can be ensured and more people can come to work. By employing more people, and by increasing the number of employees in the wage available, good bargaining solutions between the social partners could be provided. Such a solution is conditional on the use of existing labour resources in Norway rather than on labour imports from abroad. The coastal party enters in order to reduce the employer’s period of compulsory pay from 10 to 5 days. We also support the Workers' Party's proposal to reduce the number of waiting days for daily allowances from five to three days, and will reduce the minimum income requirement from 1.5 G to 1.25 G. I'll show you the other way to Innst. O. No 10, chapters 35.7 and 35.8, and hereby informs me that I will vote in favour of these proposals. I take up the Coastal Party's proposal in this setting. Moreover, the Coastal Party is opposed to Norway being sold bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e667	The representative Steinar Bastisen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e670	I will try to stick to what Odelstinget has for treatment, and as far as I know, there is no proposal for the sale of Norway either bit by bit or together. On the other hand, there is a proposal for a tax reform, and on the part of the Government, we are pleased to have a majority both for the tax reform and for the tax regime for 2005 – yesterday. Thus, the main pillars of tax reform are in place. However, the work on tax reform has not been completed. There is a need for further reductions in the tax rates on wages, lower taxes on wealth and simplification of tax rules. This will ensure equal treatment and provide better framework conditions for innovation and investment in Norway. With a majority of large-scale contributions and contributions for tax reform, the basis is for a fairer tax system and a lower level of taxation. The tax on ordinary employees will be reduced. Reduced marginal taxes on work will make working more profitable. The tax reform will make the tax system more robust, including towards increased internationalisation, which we are indispensable to, regardless of the multi-currency and government. A generally accepted tax system presupposes that labour income is treated in a non-discriminatory manner, regardless of whether it is earned by an employee, an active owner or a self-employed person. It is unfair when two persons are taxed completely differently for the same labour input and the same level of income. We are now in the process of removing that injustice. The sharing model, which would ensure non-discrimination, no longer works as intended. It has become too easy and too profitable to camouflage real labour income as dividends. This weakens people's general trust in the tax system. The reform means that the difference in the marginal tax on labour income and share income is greatly reduced so that the sharing model can be removed. The tax on high returns on shares is increased and the marginal tax on labour income is reduced. The government wants to give business predictability, and therefore promoted legislative proposals on the shareholder model and the liquidation of the divisional model already now, with implementation from 2006. The majority of these pillars ensure predictability of business in Norway. A significant consideration behind the reform proposals is to fulfil Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement. The government’s shareholder model and exemption method, to which the majority have now joined, will reduce the uncertainty surrounding the current taxation of share income in relation to the EEA Agreement. In other words, the parties that vote against both the shareholder model and the exemption model are unresponsive to the challenges facing us in the EEA Agreement. In relation to the last few days of press releases on withholding taxes and the EFTA Court’s opinion, it should be recalled that the exemption method in the company sector involves equal treatment of dividends between Norway and the rest of the EEA as from 2004. For company shareholders, the legislation adopted here today is therefore already in line with the EEA Agreement. For dividends to personal shareholders, we have, as announced in the tax notice and in Ot. pp. No 1, awaited the EFTA Court’s advisory opinion. It was released on 23 November. The Court concludes that the Norwegian rules currently applicable to personal shareholders are contrary to Article 40 of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of capital. The basis for this is that the withholding tax involves the economic double taxation of foreign shareholders, while this is prevented for Norwegian shareholders by the remuneration rules. The EFTA Court’s advisory opinion provides a basis for new progress both in individual cases before Norwegian courts and on the side of the tax reform concerning withholding tax on dividends to personal shareholders in the EEA. Adjustments to the withholding tax on such shareholders in the EEA are now being made in the light of the shareholder model and the opinion of the EFTA Court, in view of the entry into force of the shareholder model in 2006. In this context, in the light of the opinion of the EFTA Court, I would like to consider proposing to the Storting that adjustments to the withholding tax on personal shareholders resident in the EEA country should also be made for the income year 2005. I would also like to consider proposing a legislative amendment that, for 2005, gives personal Norwegian shareholders in companies within the EEA the right to remuneration for dividends, so that they also avoid double-taxation. The impact of developments in EEA law on cases from previous years has to be assessed. I will take a closer look at this in a short time regarding the specific issues that are pending. The Government considers that increased tax on dividends on shares through the introduction of the shareholder model should be combined with lower taxes on wealth. By gradually falling taxes on wealth, Norway is approaching most European countries. It is important that changes in the tax and transfer system contribute to increased labour input. The government therefore wants to reduce the tax on work. For 2005, the budget agreement with the Progress Party brings new net tax reliefs of DKK 4.5 billion incurred. At the same time, the tax burden is shifted from work to consumption by increasing the VAT rate from 24 pst. until 25 pst. We're going to reduce the tax rates and raise the entry point to 381 000 kroner. In 2005, it is estimated that 235 000 fewer taxpayers will pay peak taxes, compared to the starting point when this government joined in 2001. The minimum deduction is increased for employee income by increasing the rate from 24 p.m. until 31 pst, and the upper limit is increased to 57 400 kroner. The slowdown of taxes on wealth is already underway in 2005. This is done by introducing a common valuation rate for all shares, including listed shares, and units of unit trusts. We're also increasing the point of entry for the property tax. The advantage of owner-occupied dwellings is experienced by many as unfair and incomprehensible. The government is therefore pleased to have had a positive impact on the removal of this tax altogether. I have also noted with interest that representatives of the opposition confirm that if there is a change in number after the 2005 elections, the housing tax will be reintroduced on the basis of the proposal from the SV and the Workers' Party. At least that's a straightforward clarification. I am also satisfied with the connection to a new system for the taxation of company cars and professional cars. The age-grading percentage model that is now being adopted will contribute to a simpler and more robust regulatory framework. The conversion will reduce the taxation of reasonable cars and increase the taxation of more expensive cars in relation to the rules in force. The government has made a positive contribution to increase the deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations, from NOK 6000 to NOK 12000. This will stimulate efforts through the diversity of non-governmental organisations. Furthermore, the lower limit is increased to pay the social security tax, from NOK 23 000 to NOK 29 600, so that the so-called free card limit is NOK 30 000. In order to simplify the tax system, the Government proposed some restrictions on special deductions and other deductions and exemptions. The implementation of these changes will contribute to the simplification and greater non-taxation of taxpayers with equal real income. Through the laws that Odelstinget will make today, we get a simpler and more forward-looking tax system that strengthens the basis for growth and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e704	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e708	The Minister of Finance said that work on tax reform has not been completed – there is little in this room that has been completed, including with regard to taxes. The Sem statement said that the tax would go down by NOK 31 billion. In the tax report that we had to deal with in the summer, the government announced NOK 16 billion, and the finance minister now said that the 2005 budget agreement amounts to DKK 4.5 billion in tax relief – that is to say, it still remains around. DKr 12 billion. Then my question to the Minister of Finance is: what arrangements will the new cuts have in the tax system to refinance tax relief to the richest? Is it in the case of increased VAT, or is it in the case of deduction schemes for those with high disease costs, etc., as we now see examples? Is this where the entries are going to be to achieve the 12 billion that are now left over?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e715	No, the work on tax relief has not been completed. We will continue with a reduction in marginal taxes and a sharp reduction in property taxes associated with the introduction of the dividend tax model contained in the shareholder model combined with the exemption method. But I registered a very interesting point in the posts of the representative Nordtun; he announces what the Workers' Party will do in the next period. He said about the divisional model and the tax rates, which are going to approach each other, that it will be a certain distance, but he confirmed that what you are doing now is still a 'big step in the right direction'. Then I have to ask what step the next Workers' Party will take is, if we are to avoid the removal of the sharing rules, i.e. the sharing model, becoming a port of adjustment for those with capital incomes that can take out real labour income at the lowest tax rate. It's impossible to live with such big differences if we're going to have justice between taxpayers. But I was very excited about the expression ‘a big step in the right direction’, so the question to the Workers' Party for a later article or in a line change is: What's the next step?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e722	I would first like to comment on what the Minister of Finance had to say when it comes to source taxes, that those who don't go into the shareholder model have no solution to this problem. That's not correct. This double taxation may well be removed without a dividend tax being imposed in Norway, and this also has the Progress Party in place in the past. No, Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss said that the work on tax reform has not yet been completed, and that is quite correct. You're going to get a dividend tax, but you're not going to get one. One introduces the sharpening before one introduces the lighters, such as the removal of the property tax. This means that many businessmen are now concerned that this is a step in the wrong direction, and that they get a dividend tax without removing the wealth tax. What will the Minister of Finance say about this concern, except that, of course, a civil plurality is important even after the elections next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e729	To these concerns, I would like to reveal a little secret from the budgetary negotiations. The party of progress did not think very much to further reduce the wealth tax. However, the Progress Party is welcome to further address the 2006 and 2007 budgets. The government has committed itself to cutting down the wealth tax in order to remove it, so if it is high on the agenda of the Progress Party for once, we have a majority in favour of it with the present big composition. The representative must have misunderstood what is contrary to EU rules, because there is no double taxation here, the problem is that if we had not adopted the shareholder model and the exemption model, to which the Progress Party does not contribute, today’s system would continue to have a remuneration method, and that remuneration method, according to judges who have fallen within the EU system, is not in line with the common rules that also apply in the EEA area. That is the problem, but I am waiting for the alternative tax reform of the Progress Party to come into effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e736	Despite the fact that taxes and charges are not part of the EEA Agreement, we see that the EEA Agreement increasingly intervenes in what has been the Norwegian tax system. We first saw it in relation to the employer's fee, where we were assured that this could be continued. It couldn't. And now we see it in two areas: we look at the valuation of shares, and we see it in relation to source taxation, i.e. shareholder taxation. This is a very worrying development, because the whole starting point for the EEA Agreement has been that taxes and charges were not part of the system that we joined through the EEA Agreement. However, this means that, increasingly, we now see that ESA is dealing with cases against Norway, as Norway is losing, which means that we need to change our legislation, tax legislation and tax legislation, without actually discussing whether that is what you want. This is quite alarming, because that means that there are many different fields within our tax legislation that can take a turn next time. And my question to the Council of State concerns e.g. the oil tax. We have 50 pst. oil tax higher than our neighbouring country. What should actually prevent ESA from prosecuting itself that this is distorting competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e743	I understand that the representative of SV is asking a few questions about the EEA Agreement, but it is well a fact that the government position of SV must also be based on the EEA Agreement and the dynamics that lie in it. It is not particularly ESA’s interpretations, but there are court decisions within the EU, with effects based on the rule of free movement of capital, which have put some of the tax systems under pressure from the EU too. I'm not aware of any part of our taxation of the continental shelf. Nor is the fact that we have a very high CO2 tax on the socket disputed in recent discussions about whether to accept the EEA greenhouse gas Directive or not. So we can keep going, and if we want to have both allowances and fees, but for the government, that's not a current combination. However, it is an example of the fact that the EU does not, in itself, impose tax levels or levels of charges, but of non-discrimination between similar cases in Norway and the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e753	According to the Government's tax statement, 15 billion kroner were to be distributed in gross tax credits on employee income in the context of the reform. Men would get 11 billion of these, women would have to pay close attention to 4 billion. There are calculations done by the ministry that say this. Of those who would have received over NOK 10,000 in tax bills, there would be 300,000 men and 60,000 women. The difference in post-tax income would increase by NOK 4000 on average, and this occurs in a situation where women's wages and salaries are 66 pst. of the wages and salaries of men. The Pension Commission has estimated that the salary share will increase to 71 pst. in the course of 50 years, if it moves as slowly forward. So the government wants this to take a pants back, corresponding to 15 years of delay. And it's the reliefs in the top tax that make up most of this. Is it necessary to pay the anti-equality price to close the door that the Right and the Minister of Finance are now talking about in connection with the tax reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e762	If I were to answer in the same gender equality context as the replicator is in, I would answer, yes, because there are men who are going to take advantage of the possibility of circumvention. There are men who are going to go through the ‘loose door’ in heaps. But that's not my point of view. My view is that regardless of whether there are men or women, justice is to be done fully in a tax system. In Norway, we have never had taxation depending on gender. Taxation is linked to profitability and fiscal capacity. The fact that there is still a difference between the income of men and women, although progress has been made in the right direction, is not something that the tax system can take into account. If we were to apply a tax system based on sex, it would seem anti-equality in the sense that developments like women and men would then be counteracted by the tax system. It might also be a little cross of thought. Finally, I would like to say that a similar analysis of agricultural subsidies would probably also give quite dramatic results on gender equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e771	What worries me is that we have heard the same assurances many times before about how the EEA Agreement is to be understood. We have received insurance both from this government and from previous governments that, for example, the employer’s fee could be continued. There was no problem, because this was a fee we decided ourselves. I think that is basically what the Minister of Finance is now saying: there are many charges that are different in different countries in this area and that are initially non-discriminatory. That means it's a national decision. However, if you look at what is now changing – which is initially also a national decision – and say that it is anti-competitive or discriminatory, this is more and more deducted from what is the starting point of the agreement, namely that tax and tax are not part of it. That concern I have to say that I share, when I see ESA's appetite ever away from meddling in things they should not really get involved in. The last two examples that the Council of State presented today are just examples of the exact same thing that we initially took for granted that we could have a national understanding of and legislation on. This is a problem I believe the Minister of Finance and his cabinet should think more carefully about how to deal with these challenges and ensure that we have national tax legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e780	I can assure Djupedal that what he called my ‘cabinet’, the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance and the Government, is committed to securing the tax foundation of the country on a national basis. I would like to add that the EU is also making an effort in this direction by securing tax foundations in the Member States. Both the EU and the OECD are taking action against tax havens — both within their own ranges and outside their own ranges. What the EU has done to press e.g. Switzerland, to a greater degree of transparency in its banking secrecy and in order to extend the tax base to real assets, is invaluable. But there is still a considerable amount of work to be done, I think, in relation to some Member States, such as the United Kingdom and Luxembourg, in terms of legislation that hides wealth, whether it is through trusts or it is through other types of legislation. There we fully support the work of the European Union, and I think it also has broad support in this process. In some areas, the dynamics of the interpretation of EU legislation are such that it also covers parts of Norwegian tax legislation — not as a roof but based on non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e789	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e793	The setting contains some suggestions on the customs and charging side that I would like to comment on a little. The government announced in the revised national budget that there would be proposals to open up tax-free sales on arrival in Norway. This was to improve the economy at Norwegian airports, while it was also beneficial for travellers. There are many good reasons and many good arguments for such a scheme, but in the view of the Progress Party, it is also right to take into account the airlines flying the charter, which have part of their revenue from tax-free sales on board, and to ensure that they are given the opportunity to continue these activities on arrival and thereby avoid carrying a large amount of bottles on board. This has a security aspect and it will also strengthen competition for the benefit of users. The government also referred to a VAT compensation scheme for health businesses in the revised national budget. The party in question then provided that the scheme would not distort competition in favour of private healthcare producers, neither those receiving government grants nor those operating without government grants. We find it disappointing that the government has not managed to arrive at a system that can be implemented from 1 January 2005. The Party considers that VAT should also be introduced on infrastructure services relating to public ports from 1 January 2005 because operation, maintenance and investment in the ports of traffic are mainly financed by user payment. Ports are important connecting points in the transport chain and transport of goods and services is otherwise subject to charging. The activities of the port services constitute the only part of the transport chain which is not fully subject to charging and are therefore not deducted from the input charges. The consequence is that there is a cumulation of charges and that VAT becomes an additional cost for the goods passing through ports. The party considers that Norwegian industry will become more competitive in export markets if port charges are included in the charging area, as costs are reduced. Furthermore, the tendency to use maritime transport, which is more environmentally friendly, will be increased. It is also the case that public ports are discriminated against in relation to private ports. It amazes me that no one else sees this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e806	The representative Djupedal has done well for the majority of our tax arrangements and our view of the tax reform, so I'm just going to take some of the individual things that are mentioned in the setting. First, to the system of tax deductions for voluntary organizations, which we have already been involved in a line exchange before. So the government is proposing to increase the maximum tax deduction from NOK 6000 to NOK 12000. The SV opposes the proposal. Using community resources to support voluntary organisations makes sense. It allows organisations to spend time and effort on their purpose, and not to collect money. This was an important part of the foundation for changing the key, ensuring a strong increase in the contribution of voluntary organisations. It was a solid lift that the government party opposed – a lift that ensured stability and was the guide to its economy. Instead, the Government has intended that support for voluntary organisations should be secured through tax deductions for gifts. We have the principle that the use of community money is to be decided politically, for several reasons. Firstly, it is important that such support be assessed against other important issues through a prioritisation process, such as the budgetary procedure. Secondly, support should be fairly distributed among organisations on the basis of objective criteria, such as: the number of members and local teams. A tax-reduction scheme determines the level of support of the individual organisation by how large a gift can be drawn out of the donors. Some suggest that there is a division between organisations that are fair, that is not stable and far-reaching, and especially democratic one cannot say that it is. So I would like to say a little bit about the proposal to wind up the scheme less provisions for joint eight share capital in cooperative ventures. Cooperation is a form of enterprise which is characterised by the ownership of members, the board of directors and the benefit of members. Membership is open to anyone who can benefit from the enterprise. Since the purpose is user-benefit rather than capital return, a cooperative entity cannot collect equity through investors for the purpose of return on capital. Therefore, cooperative enterprises are dependent on building up their equity through operating surplus. A tax tightening proposed by the Government will motivate members to take out more of the surplus every year, thus weakening the equity of the cooperative – a capital that is decisive for development opportunities and conversion. SV disagrees with the government proposal. SV is also opposed to changing the tax rules for housing law. In the same way as for cooperatives, these are eight of the members and are driven non-profit. They have the sole purpose of serving the members and thus the interests of society. A tax consolidation, proposed here, will lead to the construction of 150-200 fewer dwellings. Thus, it weakens action and participation in housing construction and community development. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about the proposal for a change in agricultural taxation. Here are several suggestions, and SV goes against everyone. Now, the government party and the Progress Party have changed to the better the proposal that might have had the most negative impact, the profit taxing of the realization of agricultural property, where one now ignores family transfers and continues the ten-year rule we have today. That's what we think is wise. However, the proposal will have several unfortunate aspects. The proposal will include: claim compensation for forest protection. Both the Nature Conservation Association, Nature and Youth and the Norwegian Forestigar Association have pointed out that it is decisive for the level of conflict around protection that forest protection claims are considered reasonable. The effect of the proposals is that voluntary protection is less economically interesting than previously for forest owners. The result may be that voluntary protection work is being undermined and that the level of conflict in forest protection work is once again increasing. This will be very unfortunate, and contrary to the clear signals that both the collapse and the government have previously given about the bet on voluntary protection and the hold for conflict mitigation. It is a terrible shame that both the Left and the Christian People's Party have been in favour of such a kind of intensification of forest protection, and it is a pity that the proposal thus gets several by means of the Progress Party by the reconciliation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e827	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e830	The tax reform adopted today by the majority ensures that the Norwegian tax rules comply with our EEA obligations. The representative of Djupedal is concerned about the EEA rules affecting Norway. Yes, we are being affected, and a natural consequence of that should be that we become full members of the European Community and thus have full participation, and not just passive recipients. I want to ask the representative Djupedal to think carefully through it. I see that representatives of the Progress Party have been out wondering what can be done to remedy the judgment of the EFTA Court that the Norwegian dividend compensation system is contrary to EEA law. The answer came here today: the tax reform proposed by the Government, which we are now dealing with, together with some other adjustments, as the Minister of Finance described in his statement. The actuarial model and the exemption method in the corporate sector mean that the current risk and remuneration method can be repealed. Discrimination between Norwegian and foreign shareholders is over and the system is in line with EEA law. The uncertainty that has advised around today's system at this point thus disappears. By gradually removing taxes on wealth, introducing taxes on dividends and reducing taxes on labour, Norway is brought into line with most other countries in Europe. What I am asking is whether a representative of the Progress Party can respond to me whether this should not mean that they supported the tax reform under consideration today or whether they have other proposals that would bring Norwegian law in accordance with EEA law. I have not seen such suggestions, and wonder if it would show up someone at the last moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e841	I took the word for a three-minute post because the Minister of Finance used a lot of his answer to me to ask me again about the difference between taxes on capital and taxes on work. I'm sorry, but I find reason to go into detail. The distance to the Government configuration is significant. We agree that taxes on capital and taxes on labour must approach each other. But if we take the government's steps 2, general taxes, plus social security taxes, top taxes and employers' taxes, this is about. 65.3. If we take the Workers' Party's scheme step 2, general tax and social security tax approx. 35.8, top taxes 19.5 and employers' taxes 14.1, it becomes 69.3. So the difference is approximately. 4 pst. in relation to the tax on dividends, which is 48,16 pst. today. Then the distance to this point is not as great as the government parties and the finance minister want it to, and they're trying to make it that way. We also agree that it should approach, so that we don't get these tax havens, of course not. But I think you should moderate when you talk about it being open like a big bar door. It was before, with the sharing model. After the invasion by the bourgeois parties of the model that we agreed on in 1992, it has become a big barge that we cannot live with. This is now getting pretty close, and we're getting a dividend tax as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e855	Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss here claimed that we had misunderstood this with the illegal double taxation of foreign shareholders, and that it was the rule of law that was the problem here. The last thing that is the rule of proof, is that it's all right, but I don't think we've misunderstood this. On the basis of the information we have received from the Government in this matter, I still believe that it is entirely possible to remove the illegal double taxation of foreign shareholders without any need to introduce dividend tax in Norway. Heidi Larssen requested that we have the solution to this clearly. If she thinks I have a draft law on the inner pockets that I am ready to put forward, I have to say that I do not have it at all. There's something we need to look at and play out in relation to the Government, so we haven't made it clear. But we still mean that it's completely possible. Now the Minister of Finance came and called from the internal negotiations. The finance minister was not present during these negotiations, but he says he can tell us that the Progress Party had not fought hard to remove the wealth tax. Now, when we go into negotiations, we don't come up with our entire alternative state budget as a starting point. In fact, we give priority to our demands. What was important to us in this round was getting a social profile on the tax breaks and getting more tax breaks for those with the lowest income. We've managed to push this in a positive direction, and get a more social profile. However, we note, of course, that the Minister of Finance believes that the problem with the Progress Party is that we are not making enough demands on the government parties in the negotiations. He also believes that we are too co-decisive in the negotiations, that we are not hard enough on the requirements that we have. Of course, we should take note of that, and we should come back stronger at later times.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e864	I can reassure Gjermund Hageseter that as the negotiator, I believe that the Progress Party comes with more than enough demands and is also more than hard enough on the requirements they have! Obviously, from our political point of view, we would like to see them come a little bit different, but it might be a different discussion. Interestingly, Tore Nordtun acknowledges that the Workers' Party's tax arrangements have loopholes, that he acknowledges that with the Workers' Party's arrangements, where one removes the sharing model, but does not reduce the marginal tax, it allows for adjustments. Then we can discuss whether it creates a door or whether it creates a normal doorway, but there are at least considerable adaptation possibilities in the Workers' Party's arrangement. The Labour Party has criticised the government parties throughout this autumn to give the most tax relief to those who already have the most, saying that it is unsocial for some to have their marginal tax reduced to 50 p.m., but the Labour Party opens up too precisely the same as allowing many of the real kingdoms in Norway to organise themselves so that they can draw out their income as capital instead of labour income and thus reduce their marginal tax. That means that the tax reliefs that the Workers' Party has characterized as unsocial not only become unsocial, but also become unfair. Those who can organize, who can adapt, will get a lot of tax relief, while those who don't have the opportunity to organize differently, they don't get the same tax relief. The working party clearly accepts that those who have the most in the past will receive significant tax relief as long as they can organise differently – and it is obviously one side of the system that the Workers' Party accepts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e875	I just want to confirm, for the sake of order, that I also think that the Progress Party is promoting enough demands, but I was a little surprised that the Progress Party, for example. The priority was to reduce food consumption, which they have voted against from 24 p.m., rather than to do something about taxes on wealth, for example. But that's the priority of the Progress Party, and I'm just recording it. Then to the Workers' Party. I noticed that the representative Nordtun said that there was also a distance with the government's arrangements. Yes, it will, but it will be further reduced next year – that's the point. I called from the Workers' Party what they mean by that it's just a first step. I can emphasise this further now by asking: What does the representative of Nordtun think by saying that he agrees that the tax rates should be ‘approached’? Are they close enough with the government's arrangements that are being adopted, or are they even going to be "closer"? If it is the case that the Workers' Party does not want to reduce the marginal tax even in 2006, they are left with the fact that the distance is large. Then the Workers' Party's arrangement is a tax scheme that gives more tax relief to those who already have enough, only it becomes an AS of it! I have to say that it's certainly also an invitation to creativity. In practice, some people in this society have the ability to create a limited company out of their own income. For these, the structure of the Workers' Party is really an invitation to adapt to the lowest tax rate. That's why I ask from the Workers' Party: what will they do with the tax rates when the sharing rules are now removed from 2006?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e882	Firstly, I really hope that the Minister of Finance will ask for the floor again, so that we can hear even more interesting stories about what has really been going on in the negotiations between the government parties and the Progress Party. I think that there are some interesting assessments on the part of the Minister of Finance about where he thought that the Progress Party should have promoted its demands. When I ask for the floor, it is primarily because the representative Sanner fully supports in his argument against the Workers' Party the fact that in the tax arrangements that he and his government are in favour of, there is still a distance between taxes on capital and taxes on income. The whole argument of Jan Tore Sanner and more today has given the impression that that problem is solved, and then you call that the difference of 4 pst. between the parties to which the government is now party and the Workers' Party, a barge door in the tax system. If it is right to say that in the arrangement of the Workers' Party there is a lock door, there is another door also in the arrangement of the Government. The Minister of Finance was at least fair enough in his intervention instead of acknowledging that there is a difference between taxes on labour and taxes on capital also in the Government's proposal. I think it was necessary to clarify this, because listen to Jan Tore Sanner, you get the impression that that problem does not exist with the government tax arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e897	If it can please the representative Hill-Marta Solberg, I can admit that there is still a difference in our arrangement also with regard to taxes on labour and taxes on capital. But it's as the Minister of Finance stressed: that difference we want to make even less. That means that those adjustments will be very, very limited in our approach. We also recognise that the marginal tax on work should be reduced. We're proud that we're now getting a lower marginal tax, which means that no one is going to pay more than half of the last penny in taxes. That's exactly what the Workers' Party worked for at the beginning of the 1990s, in other words, no one has to pay more than half. But that was not what was my main point. My main point was that the Workers' Party has criticised the government parties for giving great tax relief to those who have the most from before, and that in the Workers' Party's arrangement, there will be an opportunity for all who can adapt, to achieve exactly the same tax relief – actually more opportunity than we have opened up in our arrangement. So I have concluded that the structure of the Workers' Party will not only be unsocial, if you want to put that word on it, but it will also be unfair, because it will be limited to those who can actually adapt to a new system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e905	I must disappoint the representative of Solberg by saying that I have probably not revealed any secrets, for all this with demands for VAT reduction etc. has been in the newspapers. So it's kind of no secret that the Progress Party has demanded reduced food VAT and got through to it. But then I have to say that it is a lot more exciting to hear what the Workers' Party actually means, because we have now heard for weeks that we are giving tax relief to those who already have enough. So my question is, is it also the Workers' Party's arrangement – well, notice if you organize your work as a limited company? If it is possible to get an answer to that, it would have been very clarifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e910	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 143]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e926	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e933	For a small, open and globalised economy such as Norway, it is important to adapt to developments internationally. This is particularly important for business, where the activity against foreign actors is very extensive through exports, imports, investments, the operation of subsidiaries abroad, the purchase of cross-border enterprises, the admission of loans to non-resident financial institutions, the raising of equity in the international capital market and much more. Many of the above activities assess the accounts, operations and soundness of companies. The information received should then be reliable, understandable and comparable. And it's at least as important that the information Norwegian companies give up has these properties. The practice of different accounting principles between countries creates significant problems and extra work, and therefore the harmonisation of accounting laws is internationally positive for Norwegian business. The government promotes changes in the accounting law that ensure internationally comparable, high-quality accounting information with particular emphasis on the reporting of listed companies. The proposals implement the EEA rules and European recommendations in this area and result in virtually all listed entities applying the International Accounting Standard IFRS of 2005. For the listed entities, the implementation of IFRS is mandatory. For most companies listed on Oslo Stock Exchange, the implementation of IFRS is an unconditional advantage because the feature of foreign ownership is high in Norway. Nearly one third of the companies at Oslo Børs are owned by non-resident shareholders, and it is central to the access to capital that Norwegian companies are perceived as having good accounting information. In addition, the Government proposes that Norway make use of the option to allow IFRS used in consolidated financial statements also in unlisted entities and in the annual accounts. This freedom of choice is important because Norway has many companies that are not listed on the stock exchange but which have extensive foreign-related activities. They also need foreign actors to be able to perceive the accounting information as available and reliable. The fact that this is optional and not mandatory also makes sense for those companies that do not have the same need for IFRS and that should not be charged with the additional costs it now incurs. The hearing bodies representing the business community, users, producers and controllers of Norwegian accounting information have made a clear positive statement to the main lines of the Government’s proposal for the implementation of IFRS in Norway. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Financial Committee, except for the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, supports a broader application of IFRS in Norway than is the minimum requirement. Accounting rules are important in the fight against financial crime and in order to avoid so-called financial scandals. The market must be able to rely on compliance. The Government proposes the establishment of a specific enforcement body for the financial reporting by listed companies and adds it to the credit supervision. At the same time, a specific appeal subject is established for the handling of complaints in individual decisions. Many hearing bodies in the case have pointed out that any decision to break IFRS could have consequences for the value of listed companies and be market-sensitive. Therefore, many have asked for a separate, professionally independent and independent expert selection to ensure the quality of the implementation of IFRS in Norway. An overall financial committee shares this view and assumes that such an advisory committee of experts is set up in accordance with the principles outlined by the ministry in a letter to the Committee on 8 November. The Committee takes the view that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for appointing the sample. Conditions should also provide for the selection to be an advisory body in IFRS-related issues for the prospectus review by Oslo Exchanges. Share-based payment may in many cases be an excellent measure, but this form of payment also entails an increased cost through dilution of shareholders' holdings in the companies. The practice in Norwegian business is varied. On this basis, the Government proposes that the requirement for the costing of share-based payment be made at fair value and that this be clarified in the Accounting Act. Furthermore, the Government proposes to raise the thresholds for small enterprises, which means that several enterprises are allowed to apply the simplification rules. The majority of the Committee, also this time with the exception of the Socialist Left Party, joins this simplification for Norwegian enterprises. In addition, the proposal proposes to amend the compositional framework of the board of savings banks. The proposal includes, inter alia: that at least three quarters of the members shall be persons not employed by the undertaking. The majority, consisting of the Government Parties and the Advance Party, are in addition in favour of the lifting of the current requirement in the Saving Bank Act that one of the members of the Governing Board be publicly appointed. Modernisation of Norwegian accounting legislation is a positive measure that improves the competitiveness of Norwegian business. The way this is implemented, increases the quality of Norwegian accounts and, at the same time, makes legislation more flexible towards different types of enterprises and prevents unnecessary use of resources. I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e965	The working party is in the hope of getting the plural in this setting, so I can basically refer to the case-speaker's review. This matter has raised a number of issues that we have been given, not least through many requests and hearings. There have also been differing views when it comes to accessing the issue of non-listed groups to comply with the new accounting rules, IFRS. There have been questions as to whether the operational responsibility for the enforcement of the legislation should be added to the credit supervision or the stock exchange. There are questions about the creation of an expert selection. There has also been some input when it comes to the expression ‘justifying image’, if one should not complement it, so that it also takes account of good accounting practices. In the conclusion, as I said, we are in the hope of the plurality and what the case-speaker has done well here. I will not withdraw arguments for or against, but I see one issue, and that is the question of waiting to open up so that non-listed groups can apply IFRS. It has assessed the Workers' Party a little over and over again, because a new odelsting proposal, already announced, will also include these changes in the Accounting Act. The question is whether it is not useful to see this in a row. But our conclusion is that we're following the government's plan of what's proposed here. I only want to highlight two points that are not subject to accounting law, but are subject to changes in savings bank laws. It has been a banking law commission in operation, as for example. have made a proposal to prohibit the day-to-day management of the Bank from being a member of the Board of Directors. This has been described by the Government in the proposition, but has not followed it up. I just have to stress that there is a need for the Government to take a new round on it and follow it up as soon as it can. The other applies to changes in the code for the composition of the mind. There has been a requirement in current legislation that a quarter of the board of directors should be composed of members of the bank. It's proposed to be lifted. But we must stress that this must be practised in such a way that they may at least be allowed to continue to participate in understanding in a reasonable and legitimate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e978	Accounting provides a basis for a decision maker to make economic decisions. An accounting shall give a true and fair view of the position and operation of a company and accounts should ideally be comparable across borders in order to facilitate the mobility of capital. It is therefore gratifying that international standardisation has come as far as it has now. Similarly, it makes sense for Norwegian legislation to facilitate the use of IFRS. Lack of international adjustment was a weakness in the original layout of the Accounting Act. The Progress Party has noted that the Government has not followed up the Evaluation Committee’s proposal to open up the use of different application of principles in the annual and consolidated accounts. If IFRS is used in the consolidated financial statements, as the law is now, it is also necessary to do so in the annual financial statements. A reasonable solution would be to restate the annual financial statements to IFRS in the context of the consolidated financial statements. Several hearing bodies have referred to this as an incurrency, and we expect this to be corrected in the next round. I have also noted SV's reluctance to give Norwegian companies the opportunity to use IFRS. The counter-representation is rooted in fear of impaired comparability and fear of impaired information for tax purposes. IFRS is a global measure for better comparability. Capital flows across borders, and Norway cannot be considered isolated. If you follow SV's logic in the comments, you can see that SV has gradually become against the rules for small enterprises, even though they were included in the majority of the chapter for small enterprises in the decision-making of the Accounting Act. The position is well in line with SV's position on Norwegian business. It should not be difficult to understand that there is a difference between Norsk Hydro and a sausage stall, and that the information requirements for accounting use in these two cases are different. In the case of information for tax purposes, there is an equation scheme that shows differences between accounting and tax figures — RF 1217 Specification of differences between accounting and tax values. The fear of that is therefore unfounded. The establishment of an IFRS Expert Committee considers the Progress Party to be a good and necessary initiative. Adding such a sample under the credit supervision was, through the consultation, subject to some criticism. The Progress Party believes that many underestimate the competence of the Credit Authority and find the delegation to be reasonable. The party to the progress is of the opinion that the annual report should be concentrated on matters relevant to the understanding of the undertaking's development, performance, financial position and risk. The Progress Party therefore chose to make its own proposals. In any case, it makes no sense to impose on small enterprises the same level of detailed information as large ones. However, I am pleased that it has been clarified that rules for small enterprises are still applicable, even if claims for a fair picture are included in the law. I mean that Ot.prp. No 89 for 2003-2004 contains reasonable adjustments and does not agree with the partly harsh criticism from individual hearing bodies. I would like to include the proposals from the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e999	The representative Per Erik Monsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1002	Work on a new Accounting Act is a job SV places great emphasis on. This law is a tool to help us avoid new financial scandals and to create good and transparent conditions for traders, employees and tax authorities. On this very background, we are amazed that the Government has chosen to split the discussion of the proposals of the Accounting Act Committee into two propositions. We believe it is essential to see these proposals in context. In addition, the government has unnecessary urgency. It is only in relation to the consolidated financial statements of listed companies that the EU requires the adoption of the reporting obligation by 1 January 2005. The other proposals we are discussing today could have waited for the next proposition to come, and SV is therefore promoting a postponement proposal for these today. The government has opted for a high degree of freedom of choice in the use of different forms of accounts. The so-called IFRS system shall be capable of being used in both consolidated and annual financial statements. At the same time, there shall be continued access to the accounts provided for in the existing Accounting Act. SV believes it is unfortunate that there should be different ways of making accounts for the same type of company. This may lead to less transparency and greater adaptability. In view of the importance of the information contained in the accounts, it is clearly beneficial for the reporting agents to have a consistent approach. SV therefore proposes that there be an obligation to use IFRS in all consolidated financial statements, while annual financial statements remain subject to the Accounting Act. On this basis, it is a little incomprehensible, as the representative of the Progress Party said in the previous article. SV also responds to the fact that with this proposal, the Government allows several limited liability companies to make use of simplified accounting rules. Such a change may weaken the information value of the accounts. The vast majority of Norwegian ASs are already subject to simplified legislation. SV also subscribes to what Rudihagen said related to the savings banks and the savings banks' board. I'll take up the suggestions SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1017	The representative of Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1020	I noticed that the representative, Mr Djupedal, initially said that this legislation is being introduced to prevent future scandals. It could be part of the reason for that. There is legislation to ensure that accounts provide correct, transparent information and that they are comparable across borders. I noticed that the representative said the government is moving too fast. We don't do that in the government's opinion, and it's important that we actually move forward quite quickly in this area. We're going to be the first to have a good code of accounting and transparency. I just want to answer directly the question that came from the representative Rudihagen regarding savings banks, the Executive Director of the board, the composition of understanding, etc. It is true that the Banking Act Commission has taken a position on this, but at the same time the Commission has asked to sum up a number of proposals that have not yet been dealt with by the government and the bank, and to give them a priority in a report to come later. So the Banking Act Commission itself has asked us not to present individual proposals now, but to see them in a context. Some time has passed since some of the proposals were put forward, and in view of that development, the Banking Law Commission itself will review them. I can promise that when the Commission's suspension comes, this will come to Stortinget without undue delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1027	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 166]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1035	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1042	Before we start -- it's going to be a very long voting -- the president will tell us that we've rationalized voting on case no. 1 with over 40 votes, but there's still 40 left. That's why the president has to guide as best she can, very slowly. During the debate, 21 proposals were put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 2, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 3 and 4, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 5, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 6, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 7-9, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 10-12, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, 13 and 14, by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 15-17, from Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 18, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 19–21, from Steinar Bastesen on behalf of the Coastal Party
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1144	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1177	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 19, from the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Ilov of 19 June 1964 No 14 on inheritance and certain gifts are repealed.IIThe amendment shall enter into force on 1 October 2005.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1208	The coastal party wants to go against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1232	Here, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1426	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party want to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1450	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party will oppose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1517	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1566	Here, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1677	We are voting on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows:Sections 4 to 4(a) and (b) shall be replaced by the following:In order to be entitled to a daily allowance, the member must have paid (a) for the last calendar year preceding the application for social security benefits an income equal to or greater than 1.25 times the basic amount at the time of application, or (b) for the last three calendar years before the application for a benefit had paid an employee income equal to or greater than 3 times the basic amount at the time of application.§ 4 to 9 shall read: [[People's Security Act]] [[see § 4-5]] Saturday and Sunday don't count. The daily allowance runs from the day following the end of the waiting period after the first sentence. However, the amount of the daily allowance shall not be paid earlier than the date of application.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1706	Then there is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The National Social Security Act shall be amended as follows:The new first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 19-6 shall be replaced by the following:The old-age pension shall not be reduced even if the old-age pensioner has annual retirement income in addition to the pension.IIAmendment under I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the year of income 2005.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1735	The party of progress will go against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1760	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 10) by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The People's Security Act shall be amended as follows:In the new fourth paragraph of Section 23-3, no levy shall be paid when the income is less than NOK 40000. The fee shall not exceed 25 pst. of which part of the income exceeds NOK 40000.IIAmendment under I enters into force immediately and with effect from the 2005 year of income. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1787	Then there is an alternative between the Committee's position and proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows:The fourth paragraph of Section 23-3 is replaced by the following:No fee is payable when the income is less than NOK 34 600. The fee shall not exceed 25 pst. of the part of the income exceeding NOK 34 600. IIThe I amendments shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the 2005 year of revenue.» The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Coastal Party will now support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e1814	We're going to vote on XIV, which is the tax law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e2819	The President will first vote on all the minority proposals relating to the tax law, starting with the proposals from the smallest fractions. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20 and 21, from the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:Article 7 to 11, first paragraph, point (d), first sentence is replaced by the following:For the calculation of net income under point (a), a deduction of NOK 200000 is made in the Equation Value. [[tax laws]] Proposal No. 21 sounds: «In the Wealth and Income Act of 26 March 1999 No. Paragraphs 8 to 7 are replaced by the following:Sections 8 to 7 Fund provision for owners of fishing vessels:Catties engaged in fishing activities on their own fishing vessels, or renting such vessels to others using the vessel in fishing activities, may require deduction of general income for the provision of funds in accordance with the rules of this provision.The provision is limited up to 30 pst. the general income generated by the activities referred to in the preceding subparagraph.Requirements for provision must be promoted by the end of the period of the declaration. Amounts deducted under the preceding provisions shall be added to the taxpayer's income for the year in which the funds are disbursed, and at the latest by the equation for the fifth year after deduction of the amount.The Ministry shall provide for the completion and implementation of this provision.The changes shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year of revenue 2005. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e2864	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 18, from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:§ 16-1 is replaced by the following:§ 16-1 Deduction in taxes on undifferentiated personal taxpayers who do not live in households with others is deducted from taxes and social security contributions where general income does not exceed an amount of SEK 180 000. [[tax laws]] [[1]] The deduction referred to in the previous subparagraph shall be NOK 1000. [[2]] [[3]] The Ministry may provide for the completion and implementation of this paragraph. Where special considerations so require, the Ministry may extend or restrict the scope of persons entitled to deduction under this paragraph.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e2887	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 17 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 May 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6-32 is replaced by the following: the minimum deduction is fixed at an amount equal to 29 pst. [[tax laws]] of the sum of the income covered by Sections 6-31.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 10-12 and the second paragraph of the second paragraph are replaced by the following: remuneration is fixed at dividends received multiplied by 11/28 of the shareholder's tax rate on general income. [[tax laws]] [[1]] However, in the following cases, the remuneration of dividends received is determined multiplied by the shareholder's tax rate:(c). [[2]] The recipient of dividends is a limited liability company or assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1. Dividends received to active shareholders, to the extent that the dividend does not exceed the estimated personal income attributed to the shareholder of the company in the year in which dividends are distributed. The present second, third and fourth subparagraphs shall become the third, fourth and fifth subparagraphs respectively.§ 10-32, second subparagraph, shall be replaced by the following: the entry value shall be added to the acquisition value, with or without adjustment, where appropriate, by an amount determined in accordance with Sections 10-34 or Sections 10-35. [[2]] If the amounts determined in accordance with paragraphs 10 to 34 are positive, the entry value in the event of realisation referred to in paragraphs 10 to 37, and the realisation in the event of the transfer of the share to the company that issued the share, shall be governed by 11/28 of the amount. The previous sentence shall not apply to the realisation by a limited liability company or assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1, to the realisation of the unit in mutual funds, or to the realisation as referred to in points (b) and (a) of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of Section 2-5. The acquisition value shall be set at the amount paid by a taxable person for the share unless otherwise specified.IIThe amendments under I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from 10 November 2004.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e2939	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 13 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Tax Act shall be amended as follows:Articles 6 to 20 shall be repealed.IIAmendment I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the 2005 income year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e2962	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e2969	The proposal by the Progress Party is then 63 to 12 votes not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:In paragraphs 6-32, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: The minimum deduction is fixed at an amount equal to 44 pst. [[1]] of the sum of income covered by Sections 6 to 31. The basis of calculation is rounded down to the nearest 100 divisible by. The size determines the lower and upper limit of the minimum deduction. The size may set a specific lower limit on the minimum deduction calculated by and given in income covered by paragraphs 6-31, first subparagraph, (a), (c) or (d) or second subparagraph. Taxes having both the income referred to in the preceding sentence and the income covered by the first subparagraph of Article 6-31(b) are given the highest ava) minimum deductions calculated at a specific lower limit, but without calculating the minimum deductions from income covered by the first subparagraph of Article 6-31(b) or (b) minimum deductions calculated from total income, but without applying a specific lower limit.IIAmendment under I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the year of income 2005.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The tax law is amended as follows:Articles 6 to 81 are replaced by the following:Articles 6 to 81. Special deductions for age and disability, etc. Special allowances for age are granted according to the following rules:From the month in which the taxpayer reaches the age of 70, a special deduction is made in the general income of SEK 1697 per person. start of month. [[2]] Spouses are entitled to the same special deductions as a single spouse. The provision in (a) shall apply mutatis mutandis when, after age 67, the taxpayer withdraws an old-age pension under Section 19-6 of the Swedish Social Security Act. If the taxpayer takes only part of the full old-age pension, the special deduction is reduced accordingly. Taking both spouses out parts of a full old-age pension, the maximum pension share is crucial for this reduction. If both spouses have an old-age pension from the population, the special deduction is divided by half. [[2]] As from the month in which the taxpayer receives a preliminary unpaid salary under paragraphs 12 to 16 of the Swedish Social Security Act or a disability pension because of a decrease of at least 2/3, a special deduction is granted in general income of SEK 1697 per person. start of month. [[3]] Tax payers other than those referred to in the first and second subparagraphs who have received a rehabilitation allowance, a preliminary allowance or a refund under the Law on Social Security or an invalidity pension under that Law or other laws shall, for each month commenced, have a special deduction equal to half of the monthly deduction after the first sentence of point (a). [[4]] The rules on spouses in this paragraph apply mutatis mutandis to consensual residents covered by Sections 2 to 16. [[5]] The Ministry may provide for the distribution of special deductions under this paragraph. II.Amendment I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the 2005 revenue year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3040	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: in the first paragraph of Section 10-12, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: remuneration is fixed at dividends received multiplied by 12/28 of the shareholder's tax rate on general income. [[tax laws]] [[1]] However, in the following cases, the remuneration of dividends received is determined multiplied by the shareholder's tax rate:(a) The recipient of the dividend is a limited liability company or an assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1.(b) The dividends received to the active shareholder, so far as the dividend does not exceed the estimated person's income attributed to the shareholder of the company in the year of income the dividend is distributed.(c) For that part of the total dividends to the shareholder not exceeding NOK 10000, the initial value is set at the acquisition value, possibly with up or down-regulation by an amount determined in accordance with Sections 10-34 or Sections 10-35. [[2]] [[2]] If the amounts determined in accordance with paragraphs 10 to 34 are positive, the entry value in the event of realisation referred to in paragraphs 10 to 37, and the realisation in the event of the transfer of the share to the company that issued the share, shall be governed by 12/28 of the amount. The previous sentence shall not apply to the realisation by a limited liability company and assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1, to the realisation of the unit in mutual funds, or to the realisation as referred to in points (b) and (a) of the first paragraph of Section 2-5. The acquisition value shall be set at the amount paid by a taxable person for the share unless otherwise determined.IIThe amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect for realisation and for dividends decided on from 2 November 2004.» Proposal No 8 reads: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:the second paragraph of Article 12 to 16 is deleted.The current third paragraph becomes the second paragraph.§ 12 to 17 shall be deleted.IIThe changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year of income 2005. [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3102	There is a vote on proposal No 6 from the Workers' Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:The second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 6-20 is replaced by the following:The total deduction may be made by up to SEK 2200 or by a proportionate part of that amount when the deductible quota has been paid for only part of the year of income.IIThe changes in I enter into force immediately with effect from the year of income 2005. [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3127	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The tax law is amended as follows:In the first paragraph, point (d) of Section 14-43, the following is added:d. passenger cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, furniture, etc. – 25 p.II.Amendment I enters into force immediately and with effect from the 2005 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3152	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:Articles 6 to 50 are deleted. II.The change under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from [[tax laws]] income year 2005.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:In the second, third, fourth and sixth paragraphs of Section 4-12, the share listed on the SME list at Oslo Stock Exchange is valued at the price value on 1 January of the Equation Year. [[tax laws]] [[2]] [[3]] Unlisted shares are valued at the share's proportional share of the total value of the tax assets of the limited liability company or public limited liability company on 1 January of the previous year, broken down by denomination. [[4]] Unlisted shares in non-resident companies are valued at the estimated value of the share's sales on 1 January of the Equation Year. The share shall be valued after the third paragraph when the taxpayer so requires and may be liable to the company's tax return. [[6]] Basic certificates in savings banks, mutual insurance companies, credit and mortgage associations and self-owned financing undertakings are valued at the price value on 1 January of the EQU. If the price is not quoted or known, the value is set at the estimated value of the sale.§ 4-13, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: In the case of a limited liability company or public limited liability company formed the year before the equivalised year, the share value is set at the sum of the nominal amount of the shares and the premium. [[1]] If the formation takes place upon transfer from a personal company to a limited liability company or public limited liability company, the value shall be taken into account on 1 January of the Equation Year, determined in accordance with the third paragraph of Section 4-12.IIThe changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2005 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3202	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the fourth sentence of the second paragraph of Section 5-15 is deleted. IIThe amendments in force shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2005 year of revenue.» [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3225	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:Articles 6 to 83, first paragraph, new 3rd chapter is replaced by the following:The requirement to the minimum cost and deduction level does not apply to supervisory costs due to the illness or other permanent weakness of the dependent child.» [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3244	We're going to turn to voting on the voting under the tax law. Here, there are different fractions behind almost every other paragraph. In order to reduce the number of votes, the President will add up the paragraphs that the same fraction wants to oppose. So let's start with those paragraphs, and so on. in favour of the largest fraction, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. It is § 5-15 first paragraph e nr. 1, § 6-83 first paragraph, § 8-1 third paragraph last sentence and new ninth paragraph, § 8-3 second paragraph first sentence and fifth paragraph first sentence, § 9-3 second paragraph and sixth paragraph first sentence, § 10-50 first paragraph second sentence, § 10-51, § 14-6 first paragraph last sentence and fifth paragraph, § 14-7 third paragraph and § 14-81.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3258	And then it goes over those paragraphs, and so on. in favour of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. It is § 1-2 third paragraph, § 4-12 first, second and seventh paragraphs, § 6-11, Chapter 7, § § 7-1, 7-2, 7-3, 7-10 and 7-11, § 8-1 fourth paragraph and § 15-2 new second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3270	It is voted over by a paragraph that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party oppose. It's Section 6-15.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3282	The new third sentence, the second sentence of the fourth paragraph and the sixth paragraph are added to the second paragraph of Section 6-50. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left will oppose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3294	It is contested by § 6-13 and § 6-44. This is where the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3307	It is then voted over the paragraphs that the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party oppose. It is § 5-2, New § 5-22, § 10-10, § 10-12, § 10-30, § 10-31, § 10-32, New § 10-33, § 10-34, § 10-67 and § 10-68.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3319	It is voted on by the paragraphs against which the Progress Party and the Coastal Party are opposed. It is New § 2-38, § 8-15, second paragraph, first and third sentence, § 8-15, third paragraph, fifth to tenth sentence, § 8-17, second paragraph, § 8-18, § 8-19, § 10-20 to 10-25, § 10-34, second and sixth paragraphs, § 11-8, § 12-12, § 14-90 and § 16-30.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3331	Finally, it is voted over the paragraphs that SV opposes. It is § 5-13, § 6-12, § 8-15 second paragraph new fourth, fifth and sixth sentences, § 8-15 seventh paragraph and § 8-17 third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3343	It is voted over the paragraphs, etc. under XIV for which there is no voting right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3485	We're going to vote first over XVIII third, fourth and fifth terms. Here the Progress Party and the Coastal Party have announced what they are against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3498	It shall then be added to the other paragraphs of XVIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3761	First, the transitional rules A, B, C and D refer to Paragraphs 2 to 38. This is where the Progress Party and the Coastal Party are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3774	It is voted over the transitional rule E to § 2-38.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3777	President! The party of progress has announced that we are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3784	The President has been informed that the entire committee is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3787	It's a little difficult to keep track of the new voting system, but for the sake of order, we're voting against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3794	It is then voted over transitional rule E. As you have heard, the Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3806	The transitional rules of Sections 10 to 10 etc. are further disputed. until § 6-12. Here the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3818	It is then voted over the transitional rule to § 6-12. The Socialist Left Party will oppose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3830	The transitional rules of Sections 8 to 15, etc. shall now be contested. until § 9-3. This is where the Progress Party and the Coastal Party will go.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3842	It is contested by the transitional rules of § 9-3 and § 14-81. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party will oppose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e3854	The transitional rule of § 16-30 is taken up for voting. The advance party and the Coastal Party have announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4013	The Central Party has announced that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4024	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4034	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation. So then we have a new tax law. Siv Jensen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4041	I will in no way criticize the Presidency for making voting easier. But with the extensive voting that we have had now, it would be an advantage if that voting system could be re-distributed in advance, because it is therefore not possible to follow through the adjustment. And I actually don't know now if we've voted correctly on every paragraph, just because it went very fast. So at least I'm going to ask that it happens, if you're going to continue this innovation in the future, or you actually don't know, and it feels a little uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4046	Of course, the President will do that. But the president believes that with the voting system we have now chosen, all the parties' primary positions and secondary positions are properly maintained. However, the President shall comply with the recommendation that the voting requirements be revised in advance when there are such long voting rights. Then we are ready to vote in case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4055	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 2-5, by Per Erik Monsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 6, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Before the Odelsting goes to voting on the vote, the President will refer to voting proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The treatment of the proposals in Ot.prp. No 89 which are not affected by requirements for implementation by 1 January 2005 are deferred. [[2003-2004]] These proposals are addressed in the context of the presentation of the forthcoming proposal with further proposals for amendments to the Accounting Act.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4144	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4180	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4273	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Accounting Act shall be amended as follows:Sections 3 to 3 fifth paragraphs shall be replaced by the following:To the extent necessary to understand the entity's development, financial position, profit or loss and risk, the annual report shall include a statement of non-financial conditions relevant to each entity.» In addition, the progress party wishes to go against the sixth and seventh paragraphs. As a consequence, the fifth, sixth and seventh paragraphs of the vote are replaced by the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4297	The other paragraph of the paragraph is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4377	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Accounting Act amends as follows:The present § 3-3, which becomes the new § 3-3a, deletes the ninth, tenth and eleventh paragraphs. The new ninth subparagraph shall be replaced by the following:To the extent necessary to understand the entity's development, financial position, profit or loss and risk, the annual report shall include a statement of non-financial conditions relevant to the individual entity.» Alternatively, between the respective paragraphs of the vote and this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4398	The other paragraph of the paragraph is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4408	The President will now refer to voting proposals No. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The Accounting Act shall be amended as follows:Sections 3 to 6, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:Company accounts which have not been drawn up in accordance with the principles applied in the consolidated financial statements shall be restated for consolidation purposes in accordance with the principles applied in the consolidated financial statements.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Accounting Act shall be amended as follows:Sections 4 to 4 shall be replaced by the following:Annual accounts shall be drawn up in accordance with uniform principles, which shall be applied consistently over time. However, application of the principle in consolidated and annual accounts may be different.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4459	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In section I of the bill, new sections 3 to 9, the third and fourth paragraphs are deleted.The third paragraph is replaced by the following:Compulsory group accounts not covered by Regulation No. 1606/2002 Article 4 shall draw up consolidated accounts in accordance with the international accounting standards adopted pursuant to the second subparagraph, in accordance with: [[Accounting Act]] [[EF]] the regulation Article 5(b).’ Alternatively, between the respective paragraphs of the vote and this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4480	The other paragraph of the paragraph is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4728	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4738	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-26-lower.ana.ud2458e4749	There is no record.
