ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e32	Representatives Karin Andersen, Thore A. Nistad, Finn Martin Vallersnes, Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa and Ola T. Loans, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Uppland County: Reidun Gravedahl For the Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Liv Signe Navarsete For Vestfold County: Inger Lise Hansen and Vidar Andersen For Eastfold County: Gretha Kant
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e81	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e86	I suggest Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e91	Ranveig Frøiland is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Ranveig Frøiland is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e99	The representative Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e102	On behalf of the representatives of Heidi Grande Røys, Magnar Lund Bergo, Kjetil Bjørklund and myself, I would like to propose measures to prevent a new debt crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e108	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e122	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 15 minutes to the Right Group and 10 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e131	St.meld. No 14 for 2003-2004 is a briefing on the training provision of hearing impaired people and contains a number of proposals on the organisation of the future training and housing provision. In a broad political context, this issue may not be of the greatest importance, but it is extremely important for those concerned, for children and young people who are going to take part in the offer, and for parents, who are dependent on a good offer to be able to give their children the best. I'm impressed by the commitment that parents' organizations, other organisations and others, including individuals, have shown during the handling of this matter. The information and views expressed during the process have been important and have not been irrelevant to the wording and comments contained in the decision. The Committee has adopted one at the nearest unanimous vote. I would therefore like to thank an overall committee for constructive work and for the desire and ability to come to conclusions that focus on individual life, individual life, and that will ensure the best possible offer for these children and young people. In my opinion, the communication provides a good overview of the training offered to people with hearing impairments today, and the challenges we face. The Committee therefore agrees, by way of one exception, with the Ministry in the proposals made. The Committee has underlined the central role played by centres of excellence in ensuring that all children, young people and adults with specific needs receive a training offer of good and sufficient quality. This applies to pupils who receive adapted and organised training in their own community, to those who have a part-time offer at the centre of competence school, or to those who receive a full-time offer there. For hearing-impaired students too, it is clear that the aim of the training is to equip children and young people to meet the challenges of life and to master challenges with others. The syllabus of primary school formulation that each student should be given the ability to take care of himself and his or her life, as well as the surplus and willingness to stand by others, also applies to hearing-impaired students. Although, of course, it is the municipalities and county councils that are responsible for primary and secondary education, through the centres of competence, the State must take the role of guarantor that the hearing-impaired persons are guaranteed a good training offer. Competence centres must be guaranteed the best possible competence in the field of education through a service offer which must include both training provision at home school and follow-up, guidance and training of pupils, parents, siblings and teachers through centres of excellence. The Committee considers that this competence should be given the necessary scope by co-location of primary school provision with the centre of excellence. Experience has shown that this has worked well, and the feedback from users and user organisations to the Committee is unambiguous. The Committee therefore supports the continued co-location of primary school provision at the Skådalen Centre of Competence in Oslo with the Centre of Competence and, as long as the choice of parents so requires, is maintained as a State institution. The primary school offer at Skådalen, as well as the primary school departments at the other centres of competence, Møller, Lower Gausen and the West, will continue to be state owned and operated in the future. I would, however, like to stress the Committee's comment that this solution should not be closed to future changes in relation to changing needs and that it is assumed that the Department and Statped will follow developments closely. The unanimous position of the Committee at this point is in line with the consideration of Innst by Stortinget. S. No 160 for 1990-91 and Innst. S. No 228 for 1997-98. But for Skådalen, that is a different conclusion from that contained in the Communication. The Committee concludes that there is no devaluation of activities at Vetland School or of the twin school model. We see several positive aspects of the twin school model and ask the Ministry to take the initiative for an external evaluation of the model. However, for us, and for the whole committee, it has been important to ensure the real choice of parents, and we have therefore placed considerable emphasis on the views of parents and students. The Committee has no objections to moving Skådalen Centre of Competence to Huseby, but this can only be done under certain conditions. All Skådalen departments must be adequately located. It also means satisfactory locations for primary school provision and the boarding school. Another prerequisite is that Skådalen is maintained as its own centre of competence. Another discussion that has taken place in the environment, regardless of the processing of the Storing Communication, is possibly the new construction and location of the Lower Gausen Competence Centre. In my view, there are no indications in the setting of a possible new building at the Lower Gausen. The very question of new builds has not been the theme either in the message or in the setting. There is a raging medical trend in this area. The use of cochlea implants leads to entirely new possibilities for severe heavy hearing and deafness. The CI allows deaf children to act as hard-to-heard children, but the children do not listen. CI is, in principle, an advanced hearing aid and a technical tool. The offer is relatively new, and operated children evolve in different ways. It is important that all children receive close follow-up after the operation. Developments in this area are likely to make it natural for most parents to choose home school as a primary school for their children, and the number of full-time students in the centre of competence schools is likely to decline a few years in time. It is therefore important to monitor closely developments in the needs of parents and students for school provision. As far as secondary education is concerned, the Committee supports the proposal to transfer Bjørkåsen secondary school to Hordaland County Municipality and to integrate the school into a county municipal school that becomes a focal point school. We also support the proposal to shut down Kongstein secondary school in Stavanger, which has not had students in recent school years, and to extend the node function of Sandefjord secondary school to those with heavy hearing. Experience suggests that focal points schools are a positive measure for the deaf students. This scheme has also been evaluated by the University of Southern Germany and is mainly positive. The National Association of Hearing Officers’ Schools and Centres of Competence Briskeby, located in Lier, today offers a good offer to hard-to-heard students. The Committee agrees that this offer should be maintained and that Statped continues to purchase services for secondary education at Briskeby. In connection with Briskeby, let me also mention the model experiment Rehabilitation of deaf and hard hearing. The aim of this experiment has been to build a network of skills to help people with deafness, severe hard hearing and their relatives. This work needs to be further developed where this work is currently taking place in order to allow an overall evaluation of the project. Another area where pioneering work has actually taken place in Norway is sign language education for parents. Here Norway is at the forefront of the world context, and the experience of today’s approach is very good. This training is of great importance and it is gratifying that it is organised and carried out in such a satisfactory manner. Then to the two points where there are special comments in the setting. One point is the correction scheme. The Committee agrees that the current regime should be maintained. The scheme implies that municipalities and county councils are included in the framework grant for school and housing services lasting 12 weeks or more per year. students per year; school year. The migration rates in 2003 were approx. NOK 190 000 for accommodation and approx. NOK 180 000 for training. These migration rates were adjusted in 2003, after having remained unchanged since 1992. The rates are lower than the average estimated cost of a corresponding municipal offer. The Committee agrees to maintain the scheme. It has worked satisfactorily, is not bureaucratic and is transparent. The majority of the Committee agrees that the rates can be adjusted. The minority, members of the SV, believe that the rates can and should be priced. In the context of the 2004 state budget review, the appropriations were allocated under the heading of the budget. 243, Special Education Competence Centre, reduced by SEK 72 649 000 in relation to the 2003 budget. In the budgetary remarks to this chapter, all the parties expressed concerns, in different ways, about the economy in the area and whether, within the given framework, it is possible to maintain the service provision in the sector. In this setting, the various batches refer to their budgetary comments. Although there are different comments, there is probably a common concern in the Committee that it may be difficult to maintain a desirable and necessary service offer with the necessary skills at all levels and across all groups. Countless feedback to the Committee and to individual representatives suggests great concerns among parents, users and employees. It is important to maintain a good special educational service throughout the country, and it is particularly important that services to users are protected as much as possible. I would therefore ask the Council of State to follow closely the developments in this budget chapter. A comprehensive committee wishes to provide the best possible training for hearing-impaired students. Extensive medical developments are taking place in this area, and therefore needs may change and make changes in the supply both reasonable and necessary. With today's debate, however, I hope that we will be able to calm down on how to organise the training offer. Otherwise, I refer you to the position and the committee's recommendation on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e173	It is good that the training offered to people with hearing impairment through the treatment of St.melding. No 14 is going to be discussed. The entire special educational field will be through the treatment of St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning, will also be carefully assessed. The rapporteur has taken a thorough look at the changes that the Committee is now in favour of, and I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good and constructive work on this matter. An important educational policy principle for the Workers' Party is that everyone should have equal rights to education. Of course, by «all» we also mean those who have a particular need for assistance and support in the course of education. Adapted education is essential at all levels and for all groups of students. We are therefore pleased that the Committee has decided that the State should take the role of guarantor of good training for the hearing impaired. Research also shows that good education is essential for people with hearing impairments or other forms of disability to fit into an increasingly tough labour market. Therefore, it is very important that we have the ability to provide an education based on individual needs and assumptions. As the rapporteur was involved in his speech, we have experienced an enormous commitment to this matter – from all over the country. The issue we are dealing with today is very important to many who are usually not in line when the resources are to be distributed. Through the debate that is taking place here today, it will be evident that the Committee as a whole is delivering an overall position. I'm glad. The Committee shall be composed, inter alia, of: together with the principle of ensuring training provision for children and young people in their neighbourhood. This is not a reality today. Therefore, there is a need for technical, knowledge, pedagogical and mental organisation. It is difficult, if not impossible, to discuss matters concerning the role of centres of competence, sign language education, pre-school and primary school and the offer in secondary schools without affecting the economic situation, and there is no secret that the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government resulted in a reduction in the allocation of operational expenditure for centres of competence. The reduction was intended to be implemented in a way that would have a minor impact on the provision of services; rather, it was intended that savings would be made through efficiency improvement and conversion. There may be reason to believe that the adopted reduction in the allocation has also affected users of the various services. Against this background, a majority of the Committee asked the Ministry to follow closely the developments in centres of excellence and to report back to the Storting in an appropriate manner. This study has shown that there is broad support in the Committee for the non-reduction of the provision of services to people with hearing impairment. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure a good and adapted offer. As you know, this is not a budget debate, and it is therefore difficult to go into what kind of instruments both we and, where appropriate, the Government will put in place during the revision. But I want to point out that the developments we have seen in recent times have not been desirable by the Labour Party. I will conclude with that and refer to the statement made by the rapporteur in his statement, and I do not think there is any reason to repeat parts of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e194	The position is marked by a great deal of agreement among the lots, but there is still reason to make some comments on the way also from the Progress Party. The last time Stortinget dealt with this topic was in connection with Innst. S. No 228 for 1997-98, cf. St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98. One of the themes at the time was a partial reduction in the system of state centres of excellence, a partial reduction that the Progress Party then opposed. Another theme was the creation of 300 new national PPT positions. There may be differing views on the extent to which it has been implemented, and not least on the extent to which it has been maintained. So to the setting of the day. So it's a broad consensus. However, I would like to point out in particular that in the introduction there is evidence that a majority have previously called for a broad review of the place of special education in Norwegian school. Here, the committee has calmed down to refer to the big message that was expected to come and that has come in the meantime, namely St.meld. No 30. But if you turn in St.meld. No 30, it can be seen that there is no comprehensive and thorough evaluation and evaluation of special education. The conclusion has become such as to maintain the training law’s requirement for the right to special education, but the broad review requested by a majority has in no way come in St.meld. No 30, which we now have to deal with in committee. I would like to stress that the role of centres of excellence is important. As the rapporteur has also mentioned, there has been a great deal of commitment from parents. It's joyous, but part of that commitment is unfortunately built on both uncertainty and fear of the future. Essentially, we feel that the organisation and structure of future teaching of those students with hearing impairment is reasonably well cared for. But there is reason to stress what the Committee has also stressed, namely that the State should be the guarantor of good service. I'll come back to that a little bit. There is also reason to recall that there is a reminder from the Committee that an external evaluation of the twin-school model should be carried out, and there is reason to say a few words about the situation of pupils with hearing impairment in secondary school, especially in relation to Bjørkåsen. I refer to the question to the Education Council in the Questionnaire on this topic not so long ago. Once again, it has been focused on the difficulty of the resource situation, the difficulty of the closure of the boarding school on weekends, and the fact that students are sent home and have a very long journey time – seven hours of travel time – at a very high travel cost for the student's municipality of residence. So here it's like saving with one hand, and then the other thing is going to have to pay the bill with the other hand. And here's the big travel expenses. This is part of the problem of resource scarcity. First of all, students and parents are hit, with long travel time and the plague by having to go home on weekends, but it's also a statement that the Bjørkås has problems holding on to their skills, because most of the resources are tied up in wages. And if you have less money, you also have less money to have the professional skills employed. In the context of the economy, a majority have pointed out that there is a worrying economic situation for all centres of excellence, and they have asked for an appropriate response to the Stortinget. I will therefore challenge the Council of State immediately on how she perceives that such a suitable way can be. The majority are clear that they will have a close follow-up to the situation of centres of excellence. It's important, and we want feedback. – It must be possible to give a clear and correct answer on how and when. So, as the previous speaker said, in the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Labour Party, it was cut off in this sector. 243. This is the main reason why centres of excellence are now being affected. We have to take that into account, that it's a reality for the parties involved in budgetary settlements. I have noticed that representatives of the Workers' Party, who have been involved in the conciliation, have now spent some time explaining that they are going to bet on getting money for students with hearing impairment. I understand that, because they have been on budget cuts that have hit this sector quite clearly and in a bad way. In its comments at the end of the vote, the Progress Party pointed out that this should be addressed in the revised national budget for 2004, and we hope that more parties will be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e213	St.meld. No 14 and the position of the Storting is important for the parties and the groups concerned in this case. As many other speakers have said before, it has been an enormous commitment to these groups. Neither on my part nor on the part of SV, there is any doubt that it is important to strengthen the competence and not least to organise training for the individual student. This is an area that needs to be strengthened in order to achieve equal rights to education. The treatment of this message has been a broad and open process, in which the Storting Committee has reached a different decision and in many areas has laid down different principles than the Government presented to the Stortinge in its Communication. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Olsen, for the work that has been done well and constructively. The Committee has based on the important principle of equal rights to education and that hearing-impaired persons should be guaranteed a good training offer at all levels of training. In order to follow up this position, it is important that the Government does a thorough follow-up work and, in particular, remove the cuts made by the Government and the majority, where the Government Parties and the Workers' Party in the previous budget compared to Statped made a total cut of NOK 72 649 000. If this is continued, it will lead to a deterioration in the provision of hearing-impaired persons – something that this setting should not be done. The survey has established the principle that home school/secondary school should be a primary school for the vast majority of students. It is an overall objective that the school should be an inclusive school providing training tailored to the needs of individual students. The Committee also considers that the objective of the measures must be to provide a comprehensive system to help and facilitate hearing-impaired students. The system must provide help and support for users in their everyday lives. The Committee also states that the local school should be the leading cooperation school for centres of excellence. The system needs to be set up to help the student at local school and in everyday life. To achieve the objectives of the training, it requires a combination of home school training and follow-up, guidance and training for the student, parents, siblings and teachers through the centres of competence. In order to ensure this, the Committee also states that centres of excellence must be guaranteed the best possible competence in the field through a wide range of services. That means, as I see it, no cuts in Statped. In this setting, children and students are placed in the centre. The Committee emphasises the judgements of parents/supervisors, so it emphasises their views. The Committee also states that it presupposes that today’s training provision is maintained at the primary school department of Skådalen, Møller, Westland and Lower Gausen. The size has also determined in this setting that it wants to strengthen the hearing sector. It is believed that the State should take the role of guarantor in ensuring good training for the hearing impaired. Again, I believe that this means that you cannot carry out the major cuts in Statped. The size has also established a very important principle, that centres of excellence and schools should not be separated but co-located. Co-location helps to ensure that students receive a comprehensive and coherent offer, where both theory and practice are closely linked very important both to develop skills, meet needs and capture changes in the student group. School-based centres provide opportunities for training in both full and partial courses, well-adapted training, pre-school provision, housing provision, practical development work, parental guidance and support services for schools and municipalities. Co-location helps to ensure that students receive a comprehensive and coherent offer. The Committee has highlighted the issue of sign language instruction for the envoy and sibling. As the rapporteur explained, this is a very good offer for parents. However, the Committee has also pointed out that it is important for the sibling to have a much better offer. This, I believe, is a basis for the students to have the security they experience when the closest ones understand you. There is today a lack of interpreters. This affects the training situation of hearing impaired people. The need for deaf interpreters is great. There is a lack of qualified interpreters both in primary, secondary and higher education as well as in the country's focal schools. The Committee asks in this paragraph that the Government take the initiative to increase the capacity of higher education. This is a very important point. The Committee also addresses focal points schools and the evaluation carried out by focal points schools. We point out that for most people this offer works very well, but there are also some challenges that this evaluation addresses, for example. the need for increased competence and guidance in educational work. Some schools also lack interpreters, educational tools and educational or technical equipment. The Committee asks the Government to follow up the evaluation and that is important. There is unanimity in the committee on almost the whole message, but at a substantial point SV differs from the majority, a point that I believe is one of the bases of the intention in this position from the Stortinget. In order to implement the measures that are now to be decided unanimously, it is important to stop the cutting that has been adopted in the past. In the setting SV says that we are concerned about the cuts, and indicates that we are afraid of the consequences of them. We are no longer concerned about the cut in Statped with a total of NOK 72 649 000 compared to the aged budget in 2003. We now see the results of this cut. We demand that the government act in relation to that. We cannot accept that the Storting will today adopt something that cannot be followed up in practice. Statped is the tool we have, in order to implement the measures that we in this setting say we should implement. This call for proposals has a direct impact on Statped’s business. On 9 March 2004 the State Centres were informed in a letter from Statped that, as a consequence of a reduction in grant to Statped for 2004, students should not be admitted to the schools at the hearing centres for 2004-2005. This is not the intention of the position we are about to adopt today, and I ask the Council of State to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e243	The needs of hearing impaired people are far from equal. Heaviness, deafness, deafness and deaf-blindness require different follow-up. The training provision must be based on the different needs that exist. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to see the needs of individuals. Hearing impairment is not a uniform group. It must not be education either. It is essential for children, young people and adults with specific needs to be adapted and trained in their local environment. Creating an inclusive school where good education can be ensured as much as possible requires more and better organisation in the form of knowledge and pedagogics and better technical equipment. It is important to highlight and further develop the individual's characteristics and creativity, regardless of the individual's starting point. Schools should help individuals to feel like an important contributor to society. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen the basic community of society, the family. In a family, good communication is important. Good communication is one of the prerequisites for feeling as part of this community. Parents and siblings of hearing impaired people need sign language training in order to have a functioning family. There's a family that has the greatest need to communicate with each other. Today, parents receive good and satisfactory sign language education, which has produced very good results. But children also need good contact with their siblings. Therefore, the sister should be included to a greater extent in a set of sign language instruction so that communication between siblings can improve. The Committee wishes to further develop and strengthen today's set-up for siblings. This is important for strengthening sibling cohesion. Minority-speaking hearing impaired people need better training. It's about integration and getting the opportunity to participate in society. Training in sign language for minority language pupils is resource-intensive, and municipalities alone cannot be expected to have such competence. If minority language pupils are to receive a qualitatively good offer, the offer must be linked to a centre of excellence with overall responsibility. The Committee considers that such offers must be maintained and strengthened at centres of excellence. Vestfold has a variety of educational services for hearing-impaired people: Sandefjord secondary as a focal point school, Lower Gausen as a state institution and Andebu Competence and Skolester. The choice and wishes of parents must weigh heavily in decisions about the training provision of their children. The Committee calls for the lower Gausen primary school department to remain a State institution, precisely on grounds of parental choice. The same applies to the primary education department at Skådalen. Andebu Competence and Skole readers have a very important offer for hearing-impaired students who are either blind or have other disabilities. This group requires adapted training provision and it is essential that this offer is maintained in order to meet different educational needs. Although it is a small group, this offer is incredibly important for the people involved. I would like to point out that the deaf must be given greater priority. The Committee asks the Government to clarify the deaf-blind relationship with organised and adapted training because the notification has no basis for describing or assessing the situation of this group. This is a challenge that it is important to follow up. Knute-point schools are valuable educational services for hearing-impaired people. It provides hearing impaired persons with a wide range of professional offers and multiple choices for the individual. That means that more people can take an education that they find interesting. The evaluation of the node schools carried out by the University of Southern Trøndelag shows that the hearing-impaired students at these schools are very pleased. At the same time, the evaluation points to challenges for focal schools. The provision of training at school centres needs to be strengthened and further developed. Node point schools need to be more inclusive. Better organisation, increased competence and guidance in educational work could contribute to this. There are a number of challenges associated with focal points schools, such as the need for more interpreters, more educational tools and better technical equipment and learning materials. These challenges are important for the Government to follow up. An extension of the Sandefjord secondary node function to those also applicable to hard-to-heard pupils would be positive if this ensured a high level of education. It's an overall goal to create a good and inclusive school that gives everyone the opportunity to complete an education. The setting of training for hearing impaired persons ensures that hearing impaired persons are still well trained. It gives a good direction for the way forward. The training provision for hearing impaired people needs to be further developed and strengthened in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e264	As previous speakers have said, there is a great deal of consensus on how to organise training for hearing impaired and deaf people. It is agreed that the State should be a guarantor of a good offer. The rapporteur has done a good job in the committee, and we thank him for that. There's no reason for me to repeat everything we agree on. There is a great deal of anxiety about training for hearing-impaired and deaf people. This is not due to the attitude that Stortinget is debating today, but to the development of centres of excellence. Competence centres have a central place in training provision for hearing-impaired and deaf people. There are six centres of expertise for these groups. The students have the right to training in and in sign language through the Training Act, and the centres of competence assist the municipalities with both advice and guidance. The Committee considers that the right and the possibility of training on the basis of linguistic pedagogics should be available to those in difficulty if they so wish. Students in secondary education shall be given the opportunity to choose sign language environment or training training under the Training Act by means of interpreters in normal secondary school. The Committee is clear that, in order to achieve the objectives of training, it requires a combination of home school provision and follow-up, guidance and training for the student, parents, siblings and teachers through the centres of competence. In order to ensure this, the Committee believes that the centres of excellence should be guaranteed the best possible competence in the field of vocational training, through a wide range of services. Here we're actually at the heart of the matter. 30 sign language teachers and civil servants are dismissed in the West. 16 of the posts shall be removed from Bjørkåsen secondary school and the background shall be the cuts made by the Government Parties and the Workers' Party in the budget agreement. In addition to Bjørkåsen, Hunstad school in Bergen is also hit by fateful cuts. Those who have local training around the municipalities are also affected. The resources of the Western Centre for Competence have been reduced by 20 million from 2002 to 2004. kr, and parents and students are frustrated. Competence centres and their schools are invaluable for the training opportunities of the hearing impaired. Long experience and a high level of competence are key words. Competence centres have a key role to play in facilitating individual needs, whether in-school or in cooperation with the local home school. It is precisely because of the assistance and cooperation of centres of excellence that it is possible to go to home school. I have heard here that representatives from the Workers' Party and the government parties say that one should follow developments, and one asks the Government to follow developments closely. But there's been a cut to the centres of expertise of over 60 million. kr. If someone does such a cut without thinking that it has consequences for the service offer, there is little sense of what 60 million. kr means in such a context. I would like to refer to what has been said in Bergen's Official Journal on this matter, where KrFU goes out against the Government: ‘The coup, which resulted from the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Workers’ Party, is a shocking attack on a group already at risk’.» Further: ‘For us, this is not a question of economics, but of dignity.’ I agree with Mr KrFU in this context. It's actually about dignity. It is basically petty to hit a group that is struggling with the provision of training in many areas. If one really believes that the State should be a guarantor of training for hearing impaired and deaf, the State must, i.e. The size, take its consequences and ensure that this is corrected in the revised national budget. If it doesn't become the sentence that the state should be a guarantor, just a speck, and the rafts we can deal with in addition to the Stortinges Hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e292	This notification is about training provision for hearing-impaired persons, from kindergarten to secondary education. Of course, hearing impaired people have exactly the same right to a good and equivalent training provision as all others, but vary depending on special training. It is municipalities and county councils that are responsible, but they receive assistance from the State special educational support system. In recent years, there have been major changes in the provision of hearing-impaired people, which in many ways is the background to this notification. We have a right to training in and in sign language. There has been a major development of sign language competence for teachers. More and more of the responsibility is taken and can be taken by municipalities and counties, parents and siblings are offered training in sign language, and more and more children receive cochlea implants. It changes the development potential for both speech and hearing. Statped must be able to adapt to changing training needs and needs of pupils and parents. The proposal addresses some proposals for gradual adaptation to changing needs, challenges and new developments. I perceive that there is a broad consensus between the Government and the Storting about all the essential principles, and also about most of the individual proposals. On some points, however, the Storting, or an overall committee, has wanted, as I see it, to stir something more cautiously ahead than the Government has proposed, while the Committee, like the Government, stresses the need for flexibility and gradual adaptation to changing circumstances, for example. So that you don't get in the situation that the number of students is getting so low in a single place that you can't make a good offer anymore. The Committee's concerns, which differ somewhat from the Government's proposals, concern, in particular, the co-location of schools and centres of competence and the maintenance of primary schools at Skådalen, in the interests of parents. On the basis of this search, I want to make it possible for parents and students to be given freedom of choice, by allowing them to apply for a place at Vetland while maintaining their accommodation at Skådalen. Of course, I will also follow up the Committee's call for an external evaluation of the twin school model. The Committee also addresses adult and minority-speaking hearing impaired people, where it states that Skådalen should be responsible. I believe that the Committee agrees with me that Statped must nevertheless be able to cooperate with many areas of expertise in adults and minority languages, including for example: Karlsrud Adult Education Centre, VOKS and the new National Minority Language Centre, which is located at the University of Oslo. So comment on a few of the things that have emerged in the debate. It was said by the representative of Sortevik that a broad review of special education had been expected in the communication now presented, ‘Culture for learning’, and it was claimed that there is no broad review there. In my opinion, there is a continuous thread in the whole message about how to get better adapted training. It is a separate chapter on special education and a national focus on adapted training. But it is clear that if you really want to deepen, you also need to get started on the literature list at the back, because it will emerge from the chapter on special education that the department has gone through the entire field of research in the field of special education. So if you really want to deepen it, in addition to the short version that we give when we reproduce this on 120 pages in the message, you have to get started on the bibliography. You are very welcome to that. With regard to the economy, which has been mentioned by several representatives here today, I must stress that of course we have good contact with Statped and are kept continuously informed. There is a downsizing and savings, but this is mainly related to changes in student numbers. To give an example: in a few years, the Bjørkåssen has had a reduction in its pupils from over 60 to about 60. 20 applicants now. Most of the savings are made through efficiency measures, and I would like to add that if we look back a few years in time, we have, in parallel with having received municipal enhanced schools and node schools, yet there has been no decline in the budgets of Statped. Statped has been screened in many ways, and within Statped the hearing sector has been most protected. That is why we believe that there is a basis for saying that development is proper, but I will follow it carefully, of course. On the question of when the Storting can get feedback from the budgets, I think the natural places are in connection with the budgetary contributions to the Government. This concerns the annual budgets, but we also have something called the revised national budget, which is just a revision of the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e314	I do not believe that the Council of State can or will not say anything about whether there will be money for operating costs for the centres of competence in the revised national budget. But there is no doubt that there have been strong reactions to the cut that both of our parties were involved in. And in relation to what the Greatness decides today, which the representative Schjellaa was also very forcefully involved in his post, I think we have to be honest, also the parties that have made a settlement, and could express it if there is a need for some adjustment of this field in the near future. Although one follows this situation very carefully and takes responsibility for giving a good feedback to Stortinget on this, well the situation becomes so that one has to discuss the economy when talking about this particular field. So I wonder if the Council of State – in a slightly elegant way, without her being too attached to the revised national budget – has the opportunity to give the Storting a loving signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e320	We will always report back, and the policies adopted by the Stortinget must also be followed up financially. We are following developments, and we will report back in different areas of the annual budgets, also in the revised national budget if it is natural. But I have to stress that until now our impression has been that this cut can largely be taken through efficiency measures, and that the change you see in staff, among other things, is largely related to changes in student numbers. Let me take an example, since the Western Competence Centre was mentioned: Hunstad school had only three to four years ago 53 students, and is now down in 30 to 35 students. Bjørkåssen had 62 students a few years ago, and is now down to 20 students, nine of whom are applying for a place at the boarding school. The currently planned staff will be from 1 January 2005 at the Centre for Competences in the West is probably 107 years old, and this is a reduction of about 10 years. 32 years. This must be seen in the context of the absence of the efficiency gain, in order to use such an expression, of this gradual decline in the student population in the past, but it is now taken out. Then I think it's justifiable. But I can confirm that I naturally follow developments closely, and will do so, and will report back to the Storting on the occasions that exist for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e325	I was a little surprised at the wording of the Council of State in relation to the position of Storting, that the difference is moving towards the fact that the Storting will run gently, while some others will obviously run very quickly. We fundamentally disagree with the Government in terms of the centres of expertise. They're going to have a school offer and a boarding school offer. There we fundamentally disagree with what has been presented. This has nothing to do with irritating or running. We say that this should be maintained, and it should be an offer to parents, that you should get a school offer at the centres of excellence. It must be clear, and no doubt so, and no changes can be made to this without the Storting deciding, if necessary, to make these changes. But my question to the Council of State is: With the Storting saying this now, that there is going to be a training offer, a school offer at the training centres, and there has been a announcement that there will be no admission to the autumn of these centres, the Council of State will quickly correct this, so that the children who are now applying for the centres of competence are aware that this offer will be maintained until the harvest, and that admissions will be made at Skådalen centres of competence and the other schools in general, as in previous years?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e332	In my opinion, I did not say anything so very perceptive. I think you're going to be a little bit more careful. Of course, I take note that you want to maintain your school offerings and what you say about them, including what you say about them. in the case of the Skådalen Centre of Competence and, in general, in the case of the School and Competence Centres, but I assume as a matter of course that when the Committee also expresses its wish for flexibility and adaptation of the offer, it is not that one day one should be in a situation where parents and students do not want such an offer, or that everyone is convinced that the offer will be bad or not good enough, at all costs. I mentioned in my post that I would seek to facilitate freedom of choice for parents and students, by of course maintaining the primary school at Skådalen Competence Centre, but that it might also be possible to apply for a place at Vetland School, if you want to, while maintaining your accommodation at Skådalen Competence Centre. If you're concerned about parents and students' wishes, there must be an appropriate way to solve this, even based on what the Storting wanted. I will, of course, follow up the wishes of Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e341	Two things – one about St.meld. No 30, Culture for learning. I quote from the budget position of the majority for the 2003 budget, which you want ‘a broad review of the place of special education in Norwegian school’. When the Council of State refers to annexes and bibliographies, it is not only arrogant, but it is also a bad answer. Then to the state's role as guarantor. Here the committee is unanimous and very clear. The State shall have the role of guarantor of good training for hearing impaired persons. Under the heading of economics, the Committee is also clear in its presentation of concerns, with some variation between the majority and the minority in relation to how far one will go. But the concern is clearly expressed. It's also from parents. On the basis of the fact that the State is to be a guarantor and that feedback is also requested from the majority of the Committee, we assume that it will be followed seriously when it is now threatened with a cut in the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e353	We have written a message on approx. 120 pages. Of course, it could have been 300 pages or 500 pages or 600 pages. But to say that it's arrogant, and to point out that we've used one chapter on this topic in particular, and that there's a review melody throughout the message, I think it's very special. To refer to a bibliography I don't think I'm arrogant, if you want to look at the technical basis for what, after all, is a rather compressed presentation in a message. I guess that's not very unusual. That the state is a guarantor, I have noticed. I believe that the state is in many ways a guarantor for all students in Norway, in order to provide them with a training offer under law and regulations. This should also be the case in the case of hearing-impaired persons. I have noticed the concerns of the Committee and the Storting regarding the economy. I mean, I've answered that question. We're following developments. I'm not as concerned, because I mean to know that much of this is taken by efficiency measures and is due to natural change in student numbers. But we report back in the documents where we usually do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e362	It's right that there are fewer students at Hunstad School, and it's right that there are fewer students at Bjørkåsen High School, but that's because some students then choose to go to another school, maybe home school. It is precisely in this context that centres of excellence are incredibly important. That's why I want to challenge the Council of States. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to cut 32 annual works when the total number of pupils and families in need of support, advice and assistance from centres of excellence remains unchanged? It is true that there are fewer at Hunstad School, fewer at Bjørkåsen secondary school, but the total number of students who need special educational assistance is not less within this group. But they go to home school, and the centres of expertise are incredibly important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e367	I do not have detailed knowledge of each employee in this field, but what has to be seen has happened in recent years, with the quite strong development that has been towards very concentrated offers, that municipalities and county councils take greater responsibility through reinforced municipal services and through node schools when they are in higher education, is also, of course, that the overall competence in Norway, as we know has increased, if you see this over a few years, will spread across the country, so that those with this special competence will be linked to others and more widely offered than it was before, as the students were not spread in the same way. There is a very high growth in the number of students in enhanced municipal services, and there has been a decrease in the more central services. It will also make more skills available decentralised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e374	I have to ask for the word again, because I'm a little uncertain about whether the Council of State entirely answered my question. It's a little bit important to clarify it. It is on admission to the schools for the autumn, since the Stortinget now decides that the school offer should be maintained at the centres of excellence. So there's been a message from Statped – and I assume it's based on the Storing Message – that one should pre-shoot what's in the message. It has been announced that students will not be brought up until the autumn of the state special schools. Now the Storting decides that they should continue, they should be maintained, and then it is very important that the parents and young people who have applied for these schools have the security that the recording will go as planned. I wonder if the Council of State can confirm this, as the Stortinget has now said that this should be maintained and an offer among many. It's not an obligation to go there, far from there. They can choose whatever they want, but it has to be an offer, and it has to be a real offer. It is important that the Council of State confirms this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e381	I ask for an understanding that I am not fully familiar with just how messages have gone out, and when, but I can confirm that the Storting will be followed up. How it's practical, I ask for an understanding that Statped can take care of it. So I'm not familiar with just when texts are out, and in what way, but I'm sure they know how to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e388	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e393	It's a very good and good work done in the committee, and this is a very good day for the hearing impaired. I have recently met the Swedish National Association of Hearing Officers in Uppland, which filled the content of the setting. That's why I only have some comments and some challenges to the Council of State. But first I would especially commend the committee for the review of the Briskeby school. That it is maintained, I am very pleased. Challenge No. 1 to the Council of State: through the Sectoral Council for Hearing, users were consulted by the various training services. The sectoral governance board is now closed, and another body, where appropriate the directorate, must deal with user involvement and influence. But this is not yet in place. Users feel that they are per. at present there is no one to deal with in order to have a real influence on the future. I ask the Council of State to note this and to check more closely, so that users have a place, an establishment or body they can communicate with about various training offers and the content. If this is only due to a lack of money, it must be looked at in the context of the revised budget and the budget of the harvest. But the dialogue must not be lost because of lack of money. The second thing I want to challenge the government council is: more and more people get plagues with tinnitus, i.e. eardrum. That's about. 600,000 people today who have it. More and more young people are hit, many are so hard that they become unemployed, and many, many more become deaf. The fact that so many people are affected is related to the noise pollution we are exposed to every day. Especially loud music, such as extremely high music at discos and concerts, etc., is one of the reasons. I don't think it's easy, and maybe not tricked either, trying to regulate this. But does the Council of State see the need to improve prevention and information work on what noise can do with the quality of life of people? Although this may be more within the responsibility of both the Minister of Health and the Minister of Environmental Protection, I would nevertheless challenge the Clemet Council of State on what the Government intends to do on the prevention side.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e407	A brief ‘tail’ to the Council of State when she repeats, also in a previous answer to questions related to this in the questionnaire, particularly refers to the number of students: Here it is precisely so that students cannot be equated. Here it's about huge differences among hearing-impaired students, which means that it's not easy to set up a table and say that this year we have so many students, and in the past we had so many. This requires a high level of individual treatment. The centres of excellence have built up competence over a long period of time. It's easy to get rid of. It takes longer to build it up again. It also belongs in this picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e419	There was a few points in the debate that there is a need to comment on something. The first one goes on economics, which has become relatively central. I would like to stress that the concern that the majority also expresses in the position regarding the economy within Cape. 243 is real. I just want to follow up on what the Council of State itself said, that it is important to follow this development closely. Clearly, there are many aspects of this, and a lot can certainly be taken into account in terms of efficiency. However, the feedback, such as: I've got quite a lot of, worrying me, and I'm going to ask the Council of State to take these messages that are now coming from a wide range of Biggest, seriously. This also applies to the issue of admission to centres of excellence, which has created unrest among parents. If it is the case that the message that came from Statped at the beginning of March came on the basis of the message that we are now receiving — and where the result has changed — I ask that action be taken to enable the schools to bring up students, to which the Storting has now submitted. So for user involvement: users were heavy in relation to sector hearing control. Now this is dropped and removed. It is very important that this user involvement is properly maintained. I think it is very important that there is good dialogue and good contact between Statped, the institutions and the users in this area. It's proven to be very positive. It has worked well. The users are good co-players. Not least, what has happened in the process in the Committee in connection with this setting shows that one should not only listen to the users but that they are well worth listening to. So that's what I expect will be followed up and continued. So a little comment on the training of siblings. The Committee notes that it is important that parental guidance and training, siblings, teachers at home school and others come into contact with the students. Parental training in sign language works incredibly well, and as I said, Norway is actually a pioneer in the world context in this area. In the case of sibling training, it does not work as well. It's not enough just to further develop the training of the sibling we have now. It also needs to be greatly improved and strengthened so that siblings can also get the tools needed to communicate well with their hearing-impaired sisters and brothers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e432	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I feel reasonably confident that this matter will be dealt with in a good way, so that the parents and the children who have applied for admission to the harvest at one of the schools at the centres of competence will be admitted, if they want and prefer that offer rather than the other offer. So I feel calm about that. Then I agree with Jan Olsen when he expresses concern for the economy. It is an economic situation that he himself has been involved in setting up centres of excellence, but I think there is reason to express concern, and that the Council of State should be aware of this. Collecting large efficiency gains — often a slogan — I think it is difficult in this sector, especially after we have now said that in the hearing sector, school provision should be maintained. This means that what you might want and hope to take out in terms of efficiency, you cannot pick up, because the Storting has said that the offer should be maintained. That is why I think it may be difficult. We have several types of centres of expertise. We have centres that work in relation to complex learning difficulties etc. – in the hearing sector, we have chosen a different structure and organisation from that of the rest of the centres of expertise, it is important to bring them in. We have chosen a structure in which the centres of excellence, as well as being a resource for the municipal schools, will have this education offer. Just because this group is special, it is important that these centres continue to have this training offer, unlike other centres of expertise, which are mainly to work system-oriented towards schools, i.e. to a small extent being concerned with individual life – now I am not talking about the hearing sector. They should primarily work in relation to the system, facilitating the functioning of the students at the local school. But when it comes to this sector, we say it's so special that we need different offers here, and the state also has to go in and take responsibility. That is why we are very clear and strong about maintaining the education offer. We see that there are close links between the competence centres and the training provision of centres. We're not saying everyone should go there, but we're saying that there should be an alternative for parents and children who think this is a better option than going to home school, as we want it to be. We want most people to go to home school. Competence centres shall work systematically towards home school, so that children can work best there, but where there is no way, where parents and children believe that they will receive a better training offer from a centre of competence, we say that the offer should be maintained. It's important to emphasize strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e443	I was a little in doubt if I should now ask for the word. Normally it is polite to answer a question, but the truth is that I do not know the answer to the remaining question I have received. I've noticed a few questions. One concerns the consideration of users. I just want to remind you that the establishment of the Education Directorate – it is to be established on 15 June – is a very good process vis-à-vis Statped, but I have also understood that it is a good process vis-à-vis the users and the organisation you need in terms of dialogue and interaction with the users. So with the information I have, I feel that the whole process is in safe hands. But the question I cannot answer, and which I must be allowed to come back to, is what the Government is doing in terms of information work and prevention in terms of noise and noise pollution, and the problems it can lead to, among other things. permanent earring, as we know, is a growing problem. I have to pass this on to state councils who are standing this problem closer than I am doing, so that you give feedback in another appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e450	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2546]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e466	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of a reply of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time. – This is regarded as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e477	The action plan provided a significant boost to care for the elderly. For 32 billion kroner, which was triggered by the action plan, a 12,000 new year’s work and 39 400 new nursing homes have been created. By 2005, it is estimated that 96 pst will be covered. of the need for exclusive rights. In the final examination of the action plan, the Committee stressed that we had a good framework well along the way, but that we had not completed the development of good care for the elderly. There was a need for a content reform, a quality reform, to which this communication refers. The Communication sets out the status of the action plan and summarises on the basis of studies that quality is consistently good, but that there are often failures in basic procedures, procedural, psychosocial, medical diagnosis and follow-up. There is also a lack of systematic knowledge of quality development in the care sector. The challenges are described as safeguarding individual rights, enabling complaints to be made about individual decisions, strengthening management functions, building skills and improving regulation and payment systems, which need to be coordinated and simplified. These are the views of the Committee far on the road, but give some clarifications as to which direction to take. The Committee agrees that there should be a high potential for improvement in the organisation of the care sector, with the aim of sharing experience in developing best practice. The Committee therefore supports the work and agreements concluded by the Ministry of Social Affairs with the KS, in particular: for the networking and development of user studies and information development, inter alia: through the web portal for this purpose. At the same time, however, the Committee emphasises the need, in addition to the subjective user surveys, to develop objective quality objectives based on expertise and user experience. The Committee also points to new challenges to municipal health care as a consequence of the conversion of the specialist healthcare system. Many of today’s hospital dwellers were former long-term residents of geriatric and inpatient wards in hospitals. Border rises and new functional division between first and second line services are not sufficiently developed. The work undertaken by the Government to assess the interaction between the first and second line services is therefore important. However, what can be seen is that the medical coverage, especially at the nursing homes, is not sufficient. As regards recruitment standards in general, there is a majority of the Committee who are in doubt that recruitment standards as such will solve the problems and that new practices in the provision of services by individual decision-making could also be so effective in health care homes in order to allocate the necessary resources. However, a minority believe that one should introduce a general minimum standard, while another minority, the Working Party and SV, takes on the consequences of developments in the medical situation and considers that one should have an investigation into the introduction of a medical coverage standard at the nursing homes. It is difficult to understand that the minority in favour of a general recruitment standard does not support this proposal, which would at least be a step on the way to what is their primary wish. The Committee points out that there is a need for review of the legislation in the care sector, in view of the clarification of the rights of individual users, and at the same time to ensure that municipalities can organise services according to local circumstances. The Committee therefore supports the proposal to adopt individual decisions on the content of the service for the allocation of accommodation in hospitals, while stressing that this should be added to individual decisions on the allocation of space in institutions, not as a substitute for this. With regard to the quality regulation, a majority of the Committee, all except for the governmental parties, is asking for an assessment of whether it is a sufficient instrument to ensure the fundamental rights of users and whether there is a need to clarify and strengthen the rights in the areas regulated by this regulation. In order to improve quality, it is also necessary to increase competence. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, points to the lack of building up of geriatric competence and geriatric offers in the specialist health service. It is troubling to recognise that Norway is at the bottom in this respect. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that a tool to improve the situation will be to make geriatrics a major specialist in medicine. To a large extent, there is consistency in the Committee's assessments both of the needs and of what should be done to improve the quality of care for the elderly. In one area, however, there is a fundamental disagreement. The majority, the government parties and the Progress Party, like the Government, want to facilitate the further competitive deployment of municipal care services. A minority, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, do not share this view and believe that market logic is opposed to care logic and to the quality requirements that must be included in a good care policy. In many ways, it is a cross-thinking that the Government of the notification states that the experience acquired so far with the outsourcing of competition has not provided the basis for saying that this is a method that provides quality improvements, efficiency and savings. Against this background, it is difficult to understand the Government’s position based on anything other than a purely market-sidedological justification. Surprising in this way are not the positions of the Right and Advance Party. What is surprising, however, is that the Christian People's Party shares this position, especially in the light of their general basic values. The government announces a conversion of the financing and own-payment system based on the differences in payment forms that exist between those who live in and those who live outside, institutions. The Committee would like to review this issue, but a majority would not, at this stage, decide on the content of such a conversion. However, the majority of the Committee gives a very clear signal that an increase in self-payment in the care sector is not desirable because self-payment is already too high today. In the end, I would like to refer to the Workers' Party's proposal to establish senior representatives in all municipalities. At the same time, I would like to address the proposals on which the Labour Party stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e513	The representative Britt Hildeng has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e516	Once I need a service offer to be able to cope, I think the most important thing is that there is a good service offer when I need it, based on my needs and wishes. Furthermore, if I am well enough for it, I will not be in doubt that I myself want to decide how I want the service provided, and who will provide it. In addition, I want the service provided regardless of how I choose to live, whether at home or in an institution. In this way, I am relatively optimistic about the future of both my and all other present and future elderly people – considering what we are going to discuss and adopt here today. The introduction of municipal obligations to provide specified individual decisions in which the provision of services by users becomes concrete, user surveys, increased freedom of choice and a service offer to be based on a wish of the individual and to meet individual needs will help to increase the quality of the care and care sector. The action plan for the care of the elderly has led to a strong upgrade of physical conditions and increased capacity. That's good. But so far there has been too little focus on the content of the service offer. Therefore, it is good that this quality notification has been promoted. The cancellation notice is based on the fact that it is the municipalities that are best able to design a good service offer. It is in the community environment that individuals should accept their services. It is natural that the person responsible for the service is closest to the user. That doesn't mean the state has no responsibility. The State must enable the municipalities to do the tasks even better, by giving them greater freedom through fewer earmarked means and by facilitating local adaptation to the design of the service provision. In addition, equal rules for equal services must be laid down and rules must be simple to understand and practice. The State also has overall responsibility for ensuring adequate access to personnel and for exercising supervision and control. However, the notification does not meet detailed norm requirements vis-à-vis the municipalities. If we are to achieve individual and flexible arrangements for the user, we need to give municipalities a large space for action in the design of services. It brings me to Document No of the Progress Party. 8 proposals proposing that the Directorate-General for Health approve the crew plans at the hospital and in the home hospital. In this proposal, there is little trust in the municipalities. I find it hard to imagine how a government body should be able to approve all staffing plans in institutions across the whole country and in home health care in its 434 municipalities, when we are at the same time giving each user an individual scheme. 50 patients in one nursing home are not necessarily equal to 50 patients in another. These are users with different needs. Then we can't add up to a state bureaucracy that can never take account of this. Rather, we have to give municipalities greater scope for action and flexibility. In the case of manning, government parties do not support norms either for the number of doctors or for other personnel, precisely because it is a municipal responsibility to assess the need for personnel. This is particularly important to ensure the provision of the most nurturing because a minimum standard can soon become a maximum standard. However, increased recruitment of personnel is absolutely necessary. Therefore, it is good that the Government has implemented an action plan for increased recruitment and that fixed medical contracts should be used more actively to increase medical coverage in hospitals. In order to ensure effective freedom of choice for users, it should be possible to choose between different service providers. Although it is a public responsibility to provide the necessary care services, it has been a good tradition in Norway that private operators, including non-governmental organisations, have been providers of care services. Therefore, local authorities should be encouraged to submit tenders and to launch competitive tendering procedures. Exploiting services is not just about price, but even more about increasing the focus on quality and on being able to provide the elderly with a wide range of services. Freedom of choice – being able to choose a service provider yourself rather than being chosen by others – I think is the best argument for competitive outsourcing. Therefore, it is not really very exciting if the offer leads to the replacement of a municipal service provider with a private service provider. Then you still have only one. The best thing is to provide more than one provider, from which the user can choose. In the end, it is not difficult to agree that the financing and self-payment schemes for care services are inappropriate in view of the large-scale notification. Government parties therefore look forward to the government providing a new system, which both increases freedom of choice for users and provides equal payments for equal services, irrespective of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e548	The tragic message we received on TV yesterday, that an elderly lady has been locked up with her dead husband for a week without food and water, is hardly anything you can criticize the public care for the elderly – the criticism I think each of us must take inwards. We must not develop a culture in this country where caring about others is perceived as premature. I think we need to care a lot more about others. St.meld. No 45 for 2002-2003 has many positive proposals to improve care for the elderly in the future. However, the paradox in the communication is that improvement of staffing and thus of quality should not involve greater resources. In my opinion, this is not related. It is important that both government and growth constantly focus on care for the elderly, both in terms of quantity and in terms of quality. It is important that we are in the forefront of population development in terms of long-term planning for care and care, and have a long perspective on this. Medical-technical progress is also very rapid, which allows very old people to be treated. This places great demands on professionalism and organisation, on the best possible use of scarce resources. The required number and competence of personnel will at all times affect both the quality and the capacity of the services. In general, professional staff in the care of the elderly and in nursing homes are too low today and need to be strengthened. Better management and better organisation are necessary, but cannot compensate for the lack of hands. The Elder Plan, which expires in 2005, has provided the elderly care with a significant boost in organised housing units and increased staffing. In 2005, it is planned to be approximately built. 38 400 housing units, but of these, only approx. 3000 new hospital places. This mismatch between the number of nursing homes and nursing homes will result in a higher deficit in health care places in 2005 than at the beginning of the 1998 planning period. We are talking here about an additional need in 2005 and up to 2010 of at least 12 000 hospitals, and an additional need up to 2020 of at least 20 000 new all-day care and care places. I refer in this context to the Riksrevisions Document No. 3:9 for 2003-2004, where the National Audit Office points out that the action plan has not resulted in a total net increase in housing capacity and care facilities compared to the development of the number of older people over 80 in the period 1998–2001. In the same document, the National Audit Service concludes that lower staffing requirements and more favourable funding arrangements have contributed to municipalities building residential housing rather than health homes. The National Audit Office also points out that during the first three years of the planning period there was little or no priority in the municipalities when it came to organising and building for the most nurturing, which was the clear premise of the Social Committee. The party of progress has pointed out this earlier on several occasions, that the State, both under the government of Stoltenberg and under the government of Bondevik II, has overly little followed up on the priorities of the municipalities. The sickest and most nurturing have become the losers of the older reform. The Progress Party believes that the Government in the present notification has not sufficiently taken over the fact that public somatic hospitals today need to be seen more and more as mini-hospitals providing comprehensive medical treatment and are no longer a place of residence for elderly, fragile, nurturing people. The name users or residents can no longer be used for people admitted to somatic hospitals; they are currently in fact the sickest of the sick throughout the country. From a health point of view, I believe that the professional quality of our nursing homes with few exceptions in general is too poor and not consistently good, as stated in the Storingsbericht. In fact, the Progress Party considers that it is now appropriate to consider whether somatic home operations can be maintained as a municipal area of responsibility, where the requirement for professionalism is so great that the current economy of the municipalities will not be able to respond to this need. I am referring to the fact that the Lege Association also supports this. In our opinion, it is appropriate to consider whether the operation of somatic hospitals should not be transferred to state health establishments as a decentralised part of the specialist health service and serve as a semi-intermediate service. In recent times, it has also revealed quite serious failures in the care of the elderly, both at professional and administrative level. The Health Inspectorate’s Annual Report for 2003 shows quite serious violations of laws, regulations and care regulations, and the supervision states that they are concerned that many municipalities are unable to document routines that ensure patients’ basic care needs. All reports, in particular the report of the Norwegian Nursing Association six months ago, justify the problems of inadequate staffing in our nursing homes, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Both the Medical Association, the Norwegian Nursing Association and the Trade Union are asking for the adoption of standard staffing in our nursing homes and in the home services. The Party has taken this seriously and has put forward a proposal, which is now under consideration in the Committee, that the Social and Health Directorate should be entrusted with the task of drawing up such standards. Unfortunately, this is rejected by both the Government and the majority of the Committee. The Party of Workers, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre rightly promote a proposal to ask the Government to assess a minimum standard of medical coverage in hospital homes, after they have argued in their comments together with the Progress Party that the staffing is generally too low and should be increased, in particular as regards the care staff. The Progress Party will not vote in favour of this proposal. We know that the medical coverage in the nursing homes is too low: one supervisor per. 160 patients. We don't need any further investigations. A concrete proposal for increased medical coverage had been voted in favour of by the Progress Party. Hospitals have the possibility to use the patient’s firmness in addition to the supervisory system. So the urgent need is not primarily medical coverage, but care professionals. Nor can the Progress Party support the Workers' Party's proposal for the introduction of an elderly representative scheme in each municipality. The Progress Party has previously made proposals for a national elderly representative, organised in line with the Children’s Ombudsman. Such an agent must be a national national representative, financed by the State. Municipal elders can introduce the municipalities themselves on the day if they want to, and the Progress Party would like to see them do so. The size has also previously decided that patients’ representatives should be given responsibility in the municipal health and care services. This will also be a good local arrangement, and it will assist municipalities in complying with regulations. Sub-nutrition and miscarriage among older people have long been known to be a growing problem in Norway, including in the public sector. Nutritional and dietary training needs to be strengthened at the nursing colleges and the auxiliary nursing schools. Dental and oral hygiene is partly very poor both in the home and in public hospitals. Patients admitted to nursing homes with well-maintained dental kits have their teeth damaged in a short time due to lack of oral and dental care in the institution. There are many frightening cases of deleterious dental hygiene in many hospitals. Bad teethets can also contribute to poor nutrition. I am pleased that the government in the message has addressed these problems and will do something with them. The Party welcomes the Government’s proposal to review the different and very different payment arrangements in the care services. However, the Progress Party will warn against a general increase in the own-payment. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the government should also look into a financing mechanism in which the money follows patients. This will allow more service providers from non-governmental organisations, etc. to be provided on the job. and provide the individual patient with real choices as to where to spend the evening of life. Such a regime that the money follows the patient will increase competition for professionalism and user satisfaction. In the case of self-payment for home care, the Progress Party considers that this should remain without self-interest, in line with hospital treatment. In this context, I point out that it was the Progress Party that in 1996 had removed the then self-payment for home care. National advice on health priorities has provided for a stronger research on ageing and resource use in the care of the elderly. The Progress Party has long supported stronger research into care for the elderly. In the opinion of the Progress Party, a separate fund for such research should now be set aside, and we will come back to this at the time of the 2005 budget review. The Progress Party also believes that further work should be carried out on the establishment of a centre of expertise for the care of the elderly at Red Cross Sykhemjem in Bergen. Finally, I refer to the suggestions we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e584	The representative John I. Alvheim has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e587	One of the major challenges in the coming years of the Norwegian welfare state will be to be able to provide a worthwhile offer and a worthwhile life for people who, because of old age, injury or disease, need care and care. This is a public task, and SV is very concerned that it should still be. It is also the case that care services are a municipal task. SV believes that it should still be. This does not mean that we, as national politicians – in government and magnificence – should waive responsibility for the quality of these services and for what they will be like in the future. The State has an important overall responsibility in this area as well — in the same way as for kindergartens, education and other municipal tasks. But this division of tasks makes special demands on us policymakers when we develop our policies and our demands and expectations for both the content, scope and implementation of the municipal welfare services. History shows that the Stortinget – at least the bulk of the population – has not handled this role in a good way. We who have a past like local and state politicians – and many of us are in this room – have more than once irritated us over a vast majority of people who have adopted good reforms and demands for better services and thus created expectations in the population out in the municipalities, but where the same majority have failed in showing their willingness to join in and pay the bill. The size should have learned from this, so you don't make the same mistake again. Unfortunately, that is exactly what is about to happen in the processing of this big message. The size was decided a few years ago by the action plan for the care of the elderly, which is now in the final phase. This reform has mainly focused on building improvements and a standard rise in quality of living. This was an important reform – and it was a proper reform. In the action plan for the care of the elderly, the State also assumed a not insignificant financial responsibility through various government grant and loan schemes, recognising that this was an economic promise that the municipalities could not handle alone. Unfortunately, when the Government is going to continue this action plan through a growing awareness of the quality and content of care services, there is little willingness to participate and pay the price of quality improvement. And this is a serious weakness of the government's policy to improve quality. The main goal of SV's work on the message has been to try to fix this. We say very clearly that it will not be possible to achieve the desired quality improvement in the care sector without a significant increase in staffing of different occupational groups, while at the same time increasing competence in many areas. This seems to be a cross-political agreement within the Committee. The SV has an equally clear view that the reinforced staffing and upgrading of the staff are not free of charge. This will cost money – a lot of money. And with the reports we are still receiving from Kommune-Norway about a deficit of two-digit billion, it is quite obvious to us in SV that the money this quality increase will require is not available in most Norwegian municipalities. So what the municipalities are planning is not an increase in the number of help nurses and nurses and several medical positions at the municipal hospitals. On the contrary, what we hear and read is that two out of three Norwegian municipalities now report cuts in municipal positions. In other words, there seems to be fewer help nurses, fewer nurses and fewer medical sessions in the nursing homes – no more. Therefore, SV clearly states that a fundamental prerequisite for a quality improvement is a significant growth in the local economy over the years to come. I'm glad that both the Workers' Party and the Center Party are saying exactly the same thing. This could have become a majority, and it would have set an important premise for a future job and a long-term effort that could meet the enormous challenges this sector will face when the ageing wave really begins to grow in a few years' time. The fact that the government party here in the Chamber does not want more binding formulations on better local economy could be expected, but the real disappointment here is the Progress Party. Hardly any batch has tried to market itself more clearly than the batch for the elderly and the needy than just this batch. There in the farm they don't like to save on the condom in terms of misery description. And it is also the case with this message that the Progress Party is very much in agreement with the other opposition parties, both in describing the shortcomings of today's care and care services, and in terms of the objectives of more employees and more competence. But the party is dropping when it comes to demanding more money for the municipalities in order to be able to do this job! This is a betrayal of the elderly and nursing population in Norwegian municipalities, and the party remains with little credibility on this issue. It is a great disappointment – above all for all those who, both today and in the years to come, depend on the power that must be given to Norwegian municipalities to provide good and dignified care and care for those who need it. What this also clearly shows is the need for another majority here in the Grand Duchy after the elections next year, where the parties that are now standing in the way of a public commitment to the important part of the welfare society we are discussing today are losing decisive power and influence. In this context, I would like to refer to the views of the rapporteur, Britt Hildeng, in particular on the issue of outsourcing and self-payment, which I fully share. SV is keenly concerned about whether we will be able to maintain and recruit a large number of staff with a high level of competence in the care sector in the future. Already today, the situation in this area is very difficult in many municipalities – and if we prescribe population and age composition, we see that the need for employees will increase significantly. In various contexts, some have called for the introduction of minimum standards for the staffing of different occupational groups in the home, in nursing homes and in nursing homes. It is easy to understand such requirements. Nevertheless, the SV is doubtful whether a decision on such standards alone will be an effective instrument. Without qualified people to fill the norm and without the ability to pay in the municipalities to hire these people, such standards can easily become a pure paper determination. However, in one area, SV may consider whether it may be appropriate to introduce a type of standard number and the medical coverage of hospitals. At regular intervals, some very poor health services are found for severely ill patients. It looks very serious. We have therefore put forward a proposal where the Stortinget asks the Government to consider the introduction of a minimum standard for medical coverage in Norwegian nursing homes. We are pleased that the Labour Party supports us in this proposal, but I must say that I am both amazed and disappointed that the Progress Party cannot even subsidize this. I actually thought this was in line with the policy of the Progress Party. If we are to be able to maintain and recruit skilled professionals in the care sector in the future, we need to focus on the working conditions of employees. What we get from reports, and what we see when we travel around the municipalities, is a tough everyday feeling of high work pressure, of lack of time and of understaffing – especially at night and on weekends. We also know that diseases and stress related to work are common in these professions. The University of Oslo has carried out a survey of Norwegian help nurses showing that nine out of ten people who are at work — and who are not ill-reported — have pain and health problems that can be related to the job. This is very serious. Therefore, systematic efforts are needed to improve the working environment and working conditions. Nor is it possible to avoid the fact that in competition to attract highly skilled labour in a modern labour market, wage levels are an important element. Nursing and care professionals have traditionally been — and still are — women-dominated professions and thus also low-wage workers. Swål if SV has great respect for the fact that wage negotiations are a responsibility of the social partners, I would like to stress that strengthening wage developments for nursing and care professionals must be one of several important elements of a strategy to improve recruitment. In particular, there is reason to point out the unfair pay inequality between round work and shift work. Hardly any sector of the labour market is as marked by small part-time jobs as the care sector. This has many unfortunate pages. Small jobs offer reduced opportunities for individuals to be financially independent. This in turn leads to many taking extra shifts and extra jobs. This gives little predictability, not only to the employees, but also to the users of municipal services, who can get very many different people to deal with in a very short time. Many municipalities have been very successful in reducing the number of part-time jobs, among other things. through the use of so-called wish tours. Here, a lot of people have a lot to learn from. The Storting Message contains a lot of good measures and bets. But when the Government sees that these are going to be implemented within the current budgetary framework – and is supported by a majority of the Stortinget – yes, then I fear that the quality increase that we agree on will have to be, essentially, an expectation created by the Stortinget, but that the municipalities are unable to meet. I then take up the suggestions that SV is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e640	The representative, Sigbjørn Molvik, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e643	The size has been working for many years to improve care for the elderly. There is a strong consensus that getting well-quality care services deserves more than today's generation of pensioners. The Christian People's Party believes it is positive that the first phase of the ageing effort ends next year. The action plan for the care of the elderly is then closed. All commitments have been made. In 2005, all new nursing homes and homes are completed. We've spent almost 40 billion kroner, and every municipality now sees the result of this investment. Nearly half of the country's nursing homes are either new or upgraded to modern construction. The Christian People's Party was concerned that everyone who wanted it would get exclusive. This target has already been met. We were also busy facilitating that 25 pst. of all over 80 years would have an institutional place. This goal is achieved by good margin. So the density is going to be 32 pst. This has been a big boost and absolutely necessary. 12,000 new annual works are also in place, as promised. Goods and functional buildings are not sufficient to enable individuals to experience good quality services. Now we have to focus on what's inside the homes, what's to do after the carpenter has gone home, as the social minister often expresses it. Today’s report on better quality in municipal care services represents the next phase of better care for the elderly. One of the objectives is for users to experience good quality. They must have freedom of choice and individually organised service provision. Everyone has different personal desires and experiences. We are simply different – even as a nurturing elderly person. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that everyone is met with respect and dignity. In such a phase of life, care must be taken to meet spiritual needs as well. A holistic approach must be taken. Work is very good in the municipalities. Nevertheless, many people feel that the offer is not sound and that it is poorly designed on their premises. The community health service faces major challenges. Patients will be discharged from the hospital sooner than before. They have several complex disorders and active diagnostics that require follow-up. Higher skills are needed by health professionals to provide proper medication, nutrition and pain-relieving treatment. It is an important objective that all those who wish to do so should be able to live at home for as long as possible and receive the necessary services there. Several receive outpatient treatment, leading to greater follow-up. Telemedicine is developing rapidly. All of this increases the pressure on the first line service. The Christian People's Party sees it as absolutely necessary that a sample now analyse and assess the interaction between the first and second line services. Quality failure is often also due to system failure. There may be failures in basic procedures, mishandling, management or organisation. If we are to achieve better care and care, everyone must exercise the responsibilities they already have. Staff must be professionally up-to-date and follow professional guidelines, so that the meeting with the user is viewed positively and safely. The municipality is responsible for ensuring that development and organisation are sound and in line with laws and regulations. The government wants municipalities to design services according to local circumstances and reduces earmarked grants accordingly. The Christian People's Party believes that it is the municipality itself that best sees the need for manning. We are therefore opposed to manning standards. Such a standard will not ensure individual and flexible solutions. As part of keeping and recruiting caregivers, we want everyone who wants to do it to get the entire job. We believe that the ‘Good People’ project, run in cooperation with the KS, will qualify health professionals and, in particular, leaders to provide better services. Christian People's Party thinks it's too few doctors in hospital. It's very important that everyone is properly examined and get proper medicine. For example, misdiagnosis and medications may occur. cause older people to be perceived as demented. Municipalities may impose 7.5 hours a week of public medical work on the doctors by means of fixed medical contracts. This should be much more widely used by municipalities. Today’s message suggests that supervisors are maintained, but that those who want to do so can also use their firmness while in hospital. This will improve the situation for the supervisor, who needs to deal on average with 140 nursing patients. The Government and the KS have concluded an obliging cooperation agreement to improve the quality of care services. Quality indicators shall be developed and user studies shall be carried out on how the services are perceived. The results shall be published through a national web portal. Everyone can thus know the results in their municipality and make comparisons. I think this is going to be exciting, and the municipalities can learn from each other. This can also be a useful tool for those who are newly moved into a municipality or want to move to another. The Christian People's Party considers it positive that legal certainty is strengthened by the fact that not only does the user have room in an institution, but also receives a specified single decision to give the individual the services to be provided. This makes it easier to complain if you do not get the offer you are promised. There is a need to improve the handling of cases in the municipalities. The rules should make it easier to understand and practice. A year ago, a new quality regulation was introduced. It applies to both the Local Health and Social Services Act, and it is independent of whether the user lives in an institution or in his own home. The Christian People's Party believes it is good for users, relatives and municipalities not to deal with different legislation for almost equal services. Simplification and coordination are positive. We are looking forward to the completion of the sample to harmonise health and social legislation even more. Supervision also has potential for improvement. Consideration shall be given to whether the Patient Ombudsman scheme should also apply to municipal health and social services. The Christian People's Party believes that such a system strengthens patients' legal certainty. The notice of cancellation is also on the basis of a competitive concession. It is said that no safe savings effect has been demonstrated or that there is a link between competition and service quality. For the Christian People's Party it is important that one by tender demand and has a focus on quality. It also has positive ring-effects on public supply. We're concerned that it's the government that has to pay services. For us, it is not crucial who performs the service, but that the service maintains the necessary quality. We want there to be room for private players as a supplement, corrective and alternative to public services. Voluntary organisations that have a service and do not earn a profit as a goal for their work have always been close to us. Now that we've built and filled the rooms with quality, the next stage is that one looks at the user payment. It is important that a person has equal payment for equal services, regardless of whether the services are provided in an institution, in a nursing home or in his own home. At least there is no need to develop a practice in which municipalities choose solutions that are more economic for them, rather than taking account of individual needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e679	Let me first say that the public should be responsible for the necessary care services for the individual who needs them. It is important that public care logic and ethics are maintained and developed through continuous debate and vigilance, and that public responsibility is conscious of these issues. This applies to both the State and the municipality. Such public care logic and ethics are in stark contrast to the market logic and ideology that characterizes it, and also the attitudes of the Government. We do not want to privatize this responsibility by entrusting commercial operators with the running of care institutions. The action plan for the care of the elderly was finalised some time ago in Stortinget. In this context, the number of sick homes to be built in this country is also addressed. There were 9 300 approved applications for elderly care places. The government proposed that 2000 of these be granted, while a majority of them increased by 3000, so that 5000 seats were promised. This meant that 4,300 places were left out in relation to state co-financing according to the elderly care action plan. I'm sorry about the Center Party. We wanted to cover all of the 9 300 accepted applications. In today's setting, the entire Committee concludes that there is a lack of nursing places and care places. This is a clear result of the failure to take responsibility when we dealt with this with approved applications for care places for the elderly in 2001-2002. We believe that this relationship will only worsen, as there will be an increasing number of older people in the years to come, while the changing printing practices of healthcare companies will increase the pressure on municipal care centres. This, I think, is something the Storting must deal with relatively quickly. We believe that research into ageing and care for the elderly needs to be given far greater priority than today. Ageing medicine and geriatry need to be more integrated into the different medical disciplines, while at the same time strengthening basic training in this field, so as to improve general competence. We also believe that health businesses must have this as a priority area, and care should be given increased skills and professional career opportunities, so that it becomes more attractive to apply in this field. In the past, we have arranged for improvements to be made in the pay situation in the care sector, including: by equal treatment of tour services and shiftwork. We have also suggested that we have a pay package for this profession, so that it will be more attractive to go into such work. The government announces that it will come back with a legal basis for the use of coercion and power against people with dementia. This is the Center Party very skeptical to. We stress that the development of behaviour and behaviour in life needs to be respected and accepted as much as possible, regardless of the user groups involved. We believe that the use of coercion and power must be extremely cautious in relation to expected behaviour and behaviour as attempts at rehabilitation and change. We see that something may be needed in connection with the necessary help, for example. for medical and dental treatment, but it must be in a very limited area. We believe that the best way to avoid difficult situations and thus coercive use is to provide a good and safe care service, where individual users feel their needs met and feel secure against service providers and the environment. It should be ensured through an offer of accommodation that the recipient feels comfortable with and that the recipient knows the service providers and has confidentiality of them. In practice, this means that the recipient must not be moved unnecessarily and that, in the event of a transfer, the recipient and its dependants must be given the most appropriate right of destination. Furthermore, it is necessary to include crew and tour plans which are such that the recipient does not have to deal with very many and thus unknown service providers. We also believe that there has to be a clear interaction between the first and second line service in terms of quality of care and that the specialist healthcare service now needs to take greater responsibility for the completion of the elderly and sick with many diagnoses, so that they can return to a care and care service at local level, where they are treated as best as possible for their medical conditions. It's very important. It is also important to have a rehabilitation service that serves this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e704	An important theme in the discussion on quality in care for the elderly is the introduction of recruitment standards. In parallel with the examination of the notification, the Committee now examines Document No. 8:29, from the Party of Advancement, on the approval of crew plans. The working party does not think that the question of manning standards is a simple question. It's obvious, in my opinion, arguments both for and against. However, based on an overall assessment, the Workers' Party has stated that we cannot go in order to generally impose requirements for recruitment standards at the present time. But we're moving a little bit towards using manning standards as a tool, namely to get a more thorough investigation into medical standards at the nursing homes. Why are we going to this piece? Let me, to argue, quote from the settings summary of the Document No. The 8th proposal, which was promoted by the Progress Party: ‘It is underlined that patients in nursing homes and home care are much older with a complex disease image with major impacts of age dementia, cardiac and masculinity, neurological disorders and nutritional problems.’ The same summary also states: ‘It is argued that the printing practices of hospitals lead to an increasing scale of specialised tasks and that this places great demands on local authorities to have professionals with the necessary health professional competence to ensure the medical and treatment follow-up they require.’ This suggests that medical care is very important. I understand that the Progress Party is disappointed that they are not getting full support for their proposal. But politics is very often about the many small steps on the way to the goal. The objectives of the Progress Party are the widespread use of manning standards. Today, the party can secure a majority for an important first step, namely by supporting the proposal to establish standards for medical personnel in hospital homes. On 24 April of this year, three days ago, the Medical Association sent a letter to the Social Committee, arguing heavily about the standards of medical personnel at the nursing homes. SINTEF Health is now examining the link between staffing and quality variations in a sample of Norwegian nursing homes. In the letter from the Lege Association, it is called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Preliminary findings from the study show that there are clear links between the medical intervention, measured in hours per resident, and the level of medical examination and treatment, the provision of training and pain management in the nursing homes. Correlation has a negative sign: the more patients the doctor is responsible for on a daily basis, the worse medical needs are met.’ I heard the post of the representative Alvheim today, where he strongly stresses that the Progress Party does not need any further investigation. I also understand that, but we can't go any faster than the majority wants. It is important to stress that the proposal promoted by the Workers’ Party, the SV and the Centre is concerned with an investigation that the Government is required to submit during 2004. So if the Progress Party is voting in favour of this proposal, we will be able to have a new case this year that can provide concrete standards for medical coverage at Norwegian nursing homes. Therefore, I would just like to call on the Progress Party to support the current proposal, which I believe will lead the Progress Party an important step towards a matter which has been a very important objective for the party for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e730	Nursing services are provided to people of different ages, in different situations and with different needs. When public services provide such services, we encounter people closely, often in vulnerable situations of life. In the care sector, it is important to bear in mind that this is primarily about individuals and their everyday lives. The action plan for the care of the elderly has been completed. It has contributed to the construction of 20,000 new nursing homes and 5,000 new nursing homes, and the care service has added 12,000 new annual works. Anyone who wants it should be offered exclusive. At the same time, we have had a standard raising of the building mass. Through the action plan, we have ensured that the external framework for services is in place and the objectives of the plan will be achieved. In St.meld. No 31 for 2001-2002, the end of the action plan for the care of the elderly, ‘From house to hand’, signalled the Government to change the focus from building to service content. This was endorsed by the Storting. Much has been done, but there is still an important work to improve care services. Everyone's different. For too long it has been such that you have had to thank a standardised offer, regardless of the individual's wishes and needs. The government is working for services to be adapted to the user. We want greater freedom of choice for individuals and greater diversity in the provision of care services. It requires a better dialogue with the users and their relatives. So we want to increase the number of user surveys. These are in addition to more objective quality requirements and shall be published. The Government is now proposing a comprehensive effort to promote better quality, freedom of choice and individual services, from the following main points: greater freedom of choice and increased legal certainty for individual increased recruitment and enhanced competence better management and better organisation better supervision and control a simpler and better regulation The government believes that the service offer should be designed locally, close to the users. I have noticed that a unanimous committee joins in this. Local authorities must therefore be responsible for the provision of services and local authorities must have the freedom to design the service provision according to the needs and wishes of the users. We as key politicians need to avoid detailed management and give local elected representatives the necessary confidence to find good solutions within the framework of users' legal rights. The quality of care services is consistently good. However, there is a potential to improve the quality of services. There's been a long blackout between central and local authorities. I am pleased that the Government and the Municipal Councils have now concluded a constructive and binding agreement to improve the quality of the services. The agreement contains a number of concrete measures. The establishment of quality systems and indicators will make it possible to measure quality of service. In this way, users will be able to improve their knowledge of the services and will be able to look at the municipalities in the maps. This will again provide a basis for improving services. A real freedom of choice for users requires more than one offer to choose from. Private operators have a long tradition of providing good care services. The government wants these to continue to play a central role, and we do not want to protect the public actors from being compared to the private ones. The services shall be provided for the users, not vice versa. The large and complex organisations of care services represent a major challenge in terms of organisation and management. There are 90,000 annual works and 40,000 users. There are dominant jobs with day-to-day activities. The scope of the tasks is growing and is professionally demanding. Those to be served are often in a difficult situation, with a high degree of physical and mental health problems. If we're going to provide good services, we need a good, but also stable management with a focus on the users. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Central Association of Municipalities are now working together on the four-year commitment to leadership training, «Flink with people». The organisation of the service provision is essential to ensure good quality. The government has set up an efficiency network, where municipalities can share experience on the organisation of their welfare services. Through the establishment of an experience bank for competitive outsourcing, the Government has helped to increase the competence of municipalities in the organisation as a tool for providing better services. We need more hands. We need more caregivers. The government has therefore put in place a plan to recruit care staff. During the 2003–06 planning period, the objective is to increase the growth rate of auxiliary caregivers by 50 pst. This year, up to 4,500 per year. years. This year, we're going to give 130.9 million. kr to the recruitment plan. The reform of competence has enabled the adult and unskilled to be able to demonstrate their real competence and to take exams as an assistant nurse or to take a letter as a care worker. In care services, part-time jobs are widely used. If we are to ensure recruitment, new trainees must be able to be offered full-time jobs. This is one of the things the Municipalities' Central Association is actively working on, in cooperation with the professional organisations and the Social and Health Directorate. Satisfactory medical coverage in nursing homes is important. There has been a joyful increase in the medical coverage of municipal health services as a result of the permanent reform. This has also helped to increase medical coverage in the care sector. In the main message, we point to the possibilities offered by the fixed-term contract to increase the medical coverage in the nursing homes. The Social and Health Directorate will carry out a monitoring of medical services to patients in nursing homes and residents in nursing homes to provide the basis for an assessment of any measures taken by the Government. The government will strengthen legal certainty for users of care services. There are many regulations governing local authorities' obligations and individual rights. This makes great demands on knowledge and treatment in municipalities. The competence of case handlers should therefore be enhanced by systematic training. In addition, the Government proposes that decisions on the allocation of space in an institution should also specify which and how much service the individual has the right to. This is in addition to the allocation decision. For individual users and their relatives, it is essential to know which services to expect. There has also been a significant strengthening of the State supervision of the overall care services. Nursing and care services are currently regulated by two laws, the Municipal Health Service Act and the Social Services Act. There are also different payment arrangements for residence in institutions and services provided at home. This makes it difficult for local authorities to process their rights and makes it difficult for users to understand them. A body has therefore been set up to propose simplification and harmonisation of existing legislation. The selection must give its setting during the summer. The Ministry of Social Affairs has also sent out a consultation proposal on changes to payment systems. This is the government coming back to. Studies show that most people are satisfied with the services they receive. Nevertheless, supervision of services reveals that we still have challenges. I am very pleased that we have entered into a constructive and committed cooperation with the municipalities to raise the care sector. We need to complete the action plan for better care for the elderly. We know that there is a lot of good quality in good construction. We focus on the content of the services through the quality notification we are dealing with today. The government has wanted to put the individual person at the centre of the work of improving the quality of care services. We have embarked on a reform of freedom of choice that gives each one greater influence over one's own everyday life. The aim is better services, which take more account of individual needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e782	It's going to be a string shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e785	The Ministry’s communication points out that there is a disparity between payments for services inside and outside institutions and, as the Council of State also announced, that one will review the form of financing in view of greater harmonisation. But one doesn't say anything about which direction you're going to go. Nor does one say whether such changes should take place in a cost-neutral framework, or whether one here intends to add to a system aimed at increasing the own-payment financing of these services in general. I expect the Council of State has registered what the majority says in the vote, where one warns against a development of higher self-payment in the system as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e792	I have noticed what the majority has said in relation to not wanting an increase in the pressure on self-payments. With regard to user payments in the care and care sector, I would like to stress that the government has been open when we have sent this out to the hearing. Today, the user payment is regulated by two schemes. There are many who are affected. In particular, it is the municipalities that handle what goes on payment schemes in the care sector. It is important for the Government to listen to the municipalities, and it is important to hear the users and the relatives. There are many who are affected. I would like to say that some of the discussion will clearly be – on the basis of today's remuneration regulations, among other things. – whether we want to have a system in the future where, as an elderly person or as a recipient of nursing care in a nursing home, you are happy to receive pocket money.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e801	The provision of care for the elderly today is a public monopoly. Patients have few or no options when considering home and institutional services. Freedom of choice is much mentioned in the social debate today, and everyone thinks it is a positive thing. But the elderly sick have not been given the freedom of choice that sick people have otherwise been given in relation to the Patient Rights Act. My question to the Council of State is: With regard to providing funding for the care of the elderly, in connection with the work to be done by the Department of Self-Payment and Prices of Different Services, will it be considered a system where the money accompanies patients according to the needs of patients for help, and that this is converted into dollars and cents? If that happens, we will also have freedom of choice for the elderly sick. It's high time we got it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e808	With regard to the user payment, I again emphasise that once we have sent this out to the hearing, it is because we have several alternatives. We're open here, and the government hasn't concluded. With regard to Alvheim's question, I feel that the Progress Party and Alvheim are particularly concerned that the elderly care should be publicised. The government, on the other hand, is busy and confident that municipalities are able to provide services in line with the needs of its citizens. They are almost their users and are best able to define the needs and conditions of their citizens to meet them. Then I would like to draw attention to the brochure sent from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs these days: «Freedom to choose – user choice in municipal services». And user choice is not the same as outsourcing. With user choice, the freedom to choose services is granted to the inhabitants themselves. There are several service providers, but the public and local authorities are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e817	Many reports show that elderly and sick people both in nursing homes and in nursing homes receive some very poor health services, and that has also been part of this debate today. The Committee has recently received a letter from the Norwegian Medical Association, to which the representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen also referred, which reaffirms this fact. The minority, the Labour Party and the SV, today promote a proposal to assess the introduction of a minimum medical coverage standard in Norwegian nursing homes. Now it seems that this proposal is being downgraded, unfortunately, but I still want to ask the Council of State: is a kind of nomination still part of the state council's ongoing assessments of the medical situation in the hospitals? Where appropriate: What other measures does the Government consider to implement in order to ensure better medical coverage and thus better health care in hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e824	The representative of Molvik is saying that I am very concerned that the medical services are sufficient in the care of the elderly, but also in the general care services. The development of general medical coverage in municipal health services is very enjoyable. The compulsory medical scheme has resulted in a number of medical facilities in the municipalities. They include: increased by 340 over two years, from 2000 to 2002. However, it is necessary to strengthen medical care for patients in the care sector. While the service works largely satisfactorily, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health is responsible for monitoring medical care for patients in nursing homes and residents in nursing homes. It will form the basis for the very assessment that I and the Government will make, where we may also look at the necessary measures. This will be particularly relevant in view of research and professional development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e829	I would also like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs about this with the medical coverage in the care sector. We take seriously the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health are now carrying out a monitoring and better organisation of medical care in relation to users in the care sector, and believe that it should cover both hospital residents and people in nursing homes. But I want to hear a little bit more about the progress here, because I don't feel completely safe on it. When will the Government's arrangements for medical coverage in the care and care sectors come, both in nursing homes and in nursing homes? Will the State cover the costs of increased medical coverage in the care sector? Is there a need for special measures, such as increased staffing, not least professionally, and better technical organisation of hospitals in relation to the printing practices of health care establishments? Will it, for example? need hospital beds in nursing homes? Is there any cooperation here between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs? And is it that you have calculated the need for increased number of hospitals in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e837	The representative of Lutvold pursues a very important question. With regard to the monitoring to be carried out by the Social and Health Directorate, precisely to patients in nursing homes and residents in nursing homes, there is a work that will take place from now on and forward. I would also like to say that in January 2004 a circular was sent to the municipalities where the municipalities were invited to use the individual lease agreements. I'm going to follow up on the results of the screening from the directorate and make an assessment based on that. In addition, I would like to say that a sample has been set up to assess the link between the specialist health service and the primary health service, then in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, where we are engaged in just the flow. In general, it is that people are not concerned about who is responsible for one or the other, but that it works for the individual to care for the needs of the services. The selection will also be important for the Government in the follow-up to the direct link between primary and specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e842	I did not feel that the Council of State answered the question from the representative Molvik, and therefore I would like to take the opportunity to repeat the question, as I perceived it. An important issue in the communication and in the debate today has been the issue of recruitment standards. The Council of State must be able to answer whether it is at all appropriate for the Council of State and the Government to consider using the instrument manning standards, at least for the medical coverage of hospitals. Is it at all relevant for the Government to assess the instrument for medical coverage at Norwegian nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e849	The government has not assessed staffing standards in the Storing Notice, either for care and nursing staff or for doctors, but we have said that we should follow the monitoring carried out by the Social and Health Directorate now, especially in relation to medical care services in the case of nursing homes and nursing homes. Manning standards do not necessarily result in an increase in the number of employees. Nor does it result in necessarily getting more staff with the necessary skills. This is why the government has been particularly concerned with what's going on in recruitment – to light up in this sector instead of cursing the darkness – and spends more than 130 million. Precisely on recruitment in relation to the care services, and not in relation to the university staff, because it is not where the capacity is now a challenge. Where we have a particular challenge, it's in relation to what's going on with caregivers and caregivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e856	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e861	The changes that have taken place in care services over the past ten years have in many ways been a housing reform, ensuring that hospital dwellers in particular have more valuable living conditions. One has guaranteed exclusive living, and one has ensured that one may not be allowed to live with others with a dementia or a pronounced disease, which results in living with one person being an unsustainable life. It's been important in itself. However, SV has always been concerned that we need to make the changes that are taking place within the municipal care service, more than just a housing reform. It is necessary to ensure the quality of the services and to ensure the content of the services provided to the elderly in need of assistance. What we see is that some of the most complex medicine that applies to the elderly, the need for good diagnostic and treatment services, is being reinforced by increasing age. That is why the Sintef report has been prepared on behalf of several, quite alarming people. We see that in some nursing homes you have a medical coverage that provides an average of three minutes of availability for each of those who have a nursing home. Some results are as serious as that, and when you look at the whole material, the average could be about ten minutes. Of course, it's too little when what we're talking about here is some of the most complicated medicine. It is clear that, in relation to the situation in hospitals, that people are hospitalized and remain in hospitals for less time than before and are more quickly outsourced to municipalities, as is the case with hospitals, the need is in many ways greater today than in the past to strengthen the medical services of hospitals. Therefore, it is disappointing that the Minister of Social Affairs is not able to give clear answers to the questions that have been raised repeatedly in this Chamber today, whether the Government will come back and ensure a standard of medical staffing. Of course, we have to prevent a situation where a large number of people go against securing it in some way. For SV, it will be important to follow up this case, but we want to give the government a chance to participate in the discussion on the content of a strengthening of the medical services at home. But I still want to demand that the Minister of Social Affairs takes this into account. It's too easy to say that a crew standard itself doesn't necessarily solve the problems, because it doesn't have to be a minimum standard. When it comes to medical services, we see that the minimum you have today is far too little in a number of institutions. There is clearly a need to strengthen the services also in order to strengthen the chain of the social minister himself and to provide comprehensive treatment for the elderly and those most in need.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e870	Let me first comment on the fact that I think there was little concrete information in the response from the social minister regarding the new tasks of the nursing homes in relation to the fact that they are now being transferred to more sick patients from health businesses. Then I want to take up some points that are in the message and in the setting, but that I did not get time for in the short article I had initially. I am pleased that a majority now support this by strengthening user-driven personal assistance, the BPA scheme. The centre party has entered the last state budgets and tried to strengthen this arrangement in budgetary terms, and I hope that this will be the reality after what is said in today's vote. So to the government's proposal, at least considering coordinating the aid scheme and the care pay system. The care pay scheme is an important system for the Centre party in relation to a good care service and the possibility of being as far as possible in your own home. But we're very sceptical about coordinating aid schemes and care pay systems. The assistance shall be provided to the individual user to meet the needs of the assistance, while the cost of care is a means of securing care providers. In relation to self-payment and economics, I would like to comment on something there. It is correct and important that we have a review of the self-payment arrangements and harmonisation of user payments in the care services. But this must not lead to a general increase in self-payment. We have had a debate on self-participation 2, and on what should be allowed within it. I remember it, and that the Center Party wanted more arrangements to be made. As long as that wasn't the case, the proportion scheme should actually have a lower point of entry, NOK 3 500 instead of NOK 4500. I am also pleased that the ombudsman system to secure the users of public services and those in need of assistance and support is referred to here by a majority, so that a wide range of ombudsman schemes based on user offices can now be developed. I hope the Government will follow this up, among others. because the government parties are now in the setting and support this verbally. I am disappointed that no more could be involved in supporting the proposal from the SV and the Central Party regarding the specific user office at Hamar, but I hope that we can still see positive results based on what is in the text in the settings. It is important that the legislation is coordinated in order to ensure that users are best served in their needs and in the care they need. The quality regulations must be reviewed to meet their needs. But it is equally important that awareness of these provisions and needs is improved. It requires management, competence and accountability, both professionally and administratively, in terms of care and care in the community context. Finally, economics is alpha and omega. The good objectives are not achieved without the economic coverage. The majority seem to be failing today as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e887	First, a short line to the representative Sigbjørn Molvik. My experience is that it is the poorest municipalities that consistently have the best care for the elderly, so there is not always a lack of money in the municipalities, but there is a lack of priorities. More and more Norwegian citizens move out for a short or longer time to hot strokes in Europe, for example Spain. It's uncertain how many there are, for example, in Spain. There are also no reliable figures on how many have moved to Spain or are there only temporarily. The Foundations The Norwegian Diakonhjem, Diakonissehuset Lovisenberg and Solgården have conducted a project study at Costa Blanca, which has clarified the needs of the Norwegian population, with particular emphasis on care and care for the elderly and the sick. The study shows that most Nordics have moved to Spain for health reasons and that most people live on retirement or disability. One knows that care for the elderly in Spain is relatively poorly developed, and as age increases, many Norwegian citizens have major problems with care and care. The Progress Party considers that an evaluation report on the implementation of measures, in particular in terms of health and care and care at the end of life, should be presented to the Stortinge in the presentation of the budget for the autumn. Several municipalities have established hospitalisation operations in Spain. The cost in Spain is 20 pst. lower than for hospital operations in Norway. The introduction of a funding scheme for the care of elderly people where the money accompanies patients will make it much easier to provide such services administratively abroad from the public sector in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e898	My simple, but – as I see it – very important points in relation to the Progress Party are the lack of consistency I see. The Progress Party correctly describes many of the deficiencies we see in the care service, and we in SV agree with that. The Progress Party is also involved in stressing that a quality improvement, which we are concerned with, is not possible without a significant reinforcement of staffing and competence. There are SV and the Progress Party, as well as the Workers' Party and the Center Party, agreed. But then I think it's pretty funny when only we other opposition parties go on to describe that this will cost considerable resources, and that we don't find that those resources are present in the municipalities to the extent necessary. But now I hear that the representative Alvheim says that it is in the poorest municipalities the best care is taking place, so then we are probably fundamentally in disagreement that more funding is needed for this in the municipalities. I also want to talk about the payment arrangements, which have also been a topic here today. We in SV are positive that the Government will now look at coordination of these payment schemes for municipal services, because we see it unreasonable that these schemes are so closely linked to, among other things. housing form. But I already want, on behalf of SV, to state that the total level of self-payment should not be raised. It won't be possible for SV to agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e905	When more people in the hall are concerned with recruitment standards, I just want to draw attention to the fact that the Social and Health Directorate has actually carried out an assessment, among other things. as regards the relationship between manning and quality. They are also very clear in the feedback that this is little documented. I also see that a large majority, including the Workers' Party and SV, write that this is not all that can be solved with money. The government has also been concerned about recruitment, which costs money, but in particular the focus on the individual as the starting point for the organisation and provision of care services. It's about organisation, it's about management, it's about individual decisions, it's about place decisions, and it's not least about the follow-up to the offer you're given, in relation to supervision and control. I also notice that there is a unanimous committee that writes in the vote: «Communities must have the freedom to develop and design services in line with local conditions and the needs of users.» There is also SV and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e919	It is obvious that a significant reason for not having a better supervisory coverage at Norwegian nursing homes is the economy. At the same time, various reports reveal that the coverage is so poor that there is a need to get a lift to ensure the quality of treatment in hospitals and to ensure that hospitals are able to take care of sick patients, among others. patients discharged from hospital. That is why it is important to get this work going. It is important to identify the level at which medical care should be provided at home, how much better it should be covered, and also how to ensure budgetary coverage for improving the quality of health care services. I'm recording that the social minister is trying to talk around it. But it doesn't matter. But what is more eye-catching is that the Progress Party, which has called for a standard of medical staffing at home, is now signaling that they will vote against a proposal that has just been adopted as a starting point. Both the SV and the Workers' Party have been quite clear that we want to move on to ensure that we get to this. But we want an investigation from the Government to find an appropriate approach just to move forward, and we have so much focus on that that we want to get it on our own in the Storting in 2004. Despite the fact that several have called on the Progress Party to clarify what they think, the Progress Party has still not given a clear indication that they will support that proposal. It would make no sense if the Progress Party were to vote against a proposal after arguing that they really are in favour of it. So once again, from SV, we would strongly urge the Progress Party to support the proposal that is available here, so that we can move forward in terms of manning standards in terms of medical coverage at Norwegian nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e926	I would like to join the representative, Mr Ballo, who has just said so. It is completely incomprehensible if the Advance Party cannot support the proposal for an investigation of medical personnel standards. It seems like the reasoning is something like this: if we don't get it exactly the way we want it, we don't want anything. I have experience living with my four-year-old son, and I am familiar with that kind of argument. He goes down daily with the flag to the top. But one would think that the representative Alvheim has gradually reached an age that made the reaction somewhat different! In today's debate, the Minister of Social Affairs has made it very clear that the issue of recruitment standards is not at the Government's table in relation to the medical coverage situation at Norwegian nursing homes. We've asked the social minister several times if she can at all imagine considering manning standards as a current tool. So far the answers seem to be, at least as I am able to assess them, that it is not at all relevant. There is then one possibility if we are going to move on in this matter, and that is that the majority of people make sure that the government investigates this and quickly return to the Stortinget. Then we will have a decision-making basis to be able to take such decisions. If we do not get that decision-making basis during the day today, then that is the responsibility of the Progress Party alone. It is a strange situation that the batch that has spoken the hottest for an instrument must ensure that the active substance cannot be explored so that it can be adopted, if appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e936	It's quite touching to hear how warm the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo speaks for his own condition. No one, nor Olav Gunnar Ballo, has been particularly concerned about what is the manning problem in the nursing homes. It is not primarily the medical coverage, but there is a lack of care personnel. It is so far not mentioned in their submissions at all. But you have written a note together with the Progress Party that should have concluded that you will be in favour of standards. You don't. So there's a lot of people here who have to think a little bit about how to do this tactically-politically. I am pleased with what the Minister for Social Affairs has said, including from this pulpit today, that there is going to be a work to identify the lack of a body at our public health home. I'm very pleased with that. But I would like to see a majority for the proposal we have, which is a concrete proposal and a directive. The proposal from SV and the Workers' Party is not an order for the Government to return to Stortinget. This should be assessed, and I also thought that the representatives of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Olav Gunnar Ballo had finished for the longest time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e948	SV has not rejected the idea that standards or quality requirements related to the care of the elderly should be found in some way, including in the case of staff other than doctors. But what you can imagine is that by making demands on medical staff especially, you will be able to derive from it the need for other personnel. It can be assumed that the ECG and blood samples at Norwegian hospitals are being taken more intensively, an investigation that may be carried out today in the general practitioner’s office or in the hospital sector. Then, as a consequence, one will be able to determine whether there is a need for other occupational groups as well. One place you have to start. It is clear that it will be a very radical act if today the majority of this room adopted a type of standard of living attached to the nursing homes which was about how many caregivers we should have, how many nurses we should have, how many assistants you might have. None of the parties here, I think, are able to come up with that kind of norm number or overlook the consequences of it. However, a report that shows that the availability of medical services in Norwegian hospitals is at a very low level for three minutes per year. Weeks per week residents of persons suffering from severe suffering make it clear to all that the services are severely deficient. That is what we are talking about. Let's start at the end that's obviously the biggest flaws, and work from there. But we note that the Progress Party will not be supporting us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e955	The president's sorry he made a mistake. The representative Ballo had the word twice and should only have the word of a brief remark. That doesn't mean the President will let that mistake happen several times! Ola D. Glötvold – please! Violent violence has spoken twice, and is given the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e960	I'll try to take note of it! I think it was quite alarming, what Alvheim said, but at the same time it was probably an argument from the Progress Party for the Progress Party's attitude to starvation of the municipalities. He said that the best care is in the poorest municipalities! I think it's going to be a hopeless argument that the economy isn't important. The economy is alpha and omega, and if we're going to achieve the good goals we're talking about, we have to have the economy in place. This also applies to manning standards – without the provision of economic resources for manning, it becomes a game for the gallery. That is why I am confident that the professional development and assessment of the economic impact of different solutions will be put in place quite soon, as the Government also believes. But it must be quite clear that I am impatient with the Government's intention to deliver something in this context and to show how the trade development/coverage should be, and how the economy should be to get this in place. It must be in place soon!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e969	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2547]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e977	We should then be ready to go to voting in the matters listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e998	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Britt Hildeng on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2 by Britt Hildeng, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 3, by Britt Hildeng on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 4, by Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 5-8, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 4, from Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government support the establishment of an ombudsman and user office in Hedmark in cooperation with the patient ombudsman in Hedmark and Uppland in order to gain a broader background in the establishment of future ombudsman arrangements.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then voted on the proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an evaluation of the situation of the northern inhabitants of Spain, based on the Costa Blanca report, and to propose possible implementation of measures in the context of the 2005 State budget.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an evaluation of the pilot project with preventive, outreach home-based care for the elderly in the context of the 2005 State budget.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of a scheme of State Senior Officials’.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e1051	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate the implementation of a scheme of senior representatives in the municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e1066	We shall then vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the introduction of a minimum standard of medical coverage at Norwegian nursing homes and to return to the Stortinget on its own initiative during 2004.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e1081	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate the health, economic and social situation of the elderly with a minority background.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-27.ana.ud1214e1116	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Social and Health Directorate to provide the Authority with the approval of the crew plans at the hospital and in the home care centre, so as to ensure a professionally sound level of staff, irrespective of the place of residence of the sick elderly.’
