ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e34	The called alternates, for Hordaland County Pål Berberfjord and for Eastfold County Ane Sofie Tömerås, have taken the seat. The representative Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse will make two private suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e45	On behalf of the representatives of Øystein Djupedal, Heidi Grande Røys and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for action against unemployment. On behalf of the representatives of Heikki Holmås, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Rune J. Skjellaaen and myself, I would like to propose measures for children who have been in reception for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e52	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e70	The human rights situation in Vietnam is very worrying. There are particular concerns about the right to freedom of religion, freedom of expression and the economic and social rights of minorities. That the rights situation in Vietnam is problematic is to no avail. The country as a whole became a closed, communist one-party state in 1975, and the repression was such that we got many so-called boat refugees from the country. A good part of them were picked up by Norwegian ships and got after each stay in Norway. In addition to the 1990s, Vietnam became progressively more open, and the international community has intervened with the country, for example. through contributions and loans from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, and from individual countries. Contributions are being made to speed up Vietnam's economy and improve living conditions for its citizens. In the last few years, international attention to Vietnam has probably diminished somewhat, and the situation of rights has deteriorated. The 2003 Human Rights Watch World Report states that persons working for democracy, human rights and religious freedom in Vietnam are arrested or subjected to extensive surveillance and control. The national authorities continue their long-standing practice of bridging freedom of expression and restrictions make the existence of other essential human rights impossible. The Catholic priest Father Thadeus Nguyen Van Ly has been imprisoned several times. In October 2002, after a trial of a day's duration in the Law of the People's Republic of Thua Thien Hue Province, he was sentenced to 15 years in prison, allegedly to "undermine national unity", but in reality to have been a visible religious leader. Van Ly has become an important symbolic leader for many of Vietnam's eight million Catholics. He has been nominated several times at the Nobel Peace Prize, also this year. It has been almost impossible to visit Van Ly, and I am concerned about his health situation. Here it is important that we, as representatives of the international community, show that we are following closely. The frivolous Buddhist monk Thich Quang Do, who is the Vice-Chairman of the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam, has been subjected to repeated police interrogations and is now under house arrest in Saigon. The authorities confiscate and destroy books and other publications that they dislike. In January last year, more than seven tons of books were burned in Saigon. So we're not talking about the Middle Ages, we're talking about 2003. Foreign books and periodicals written by political opposition officials were the main focus of what was destroyed. A free press doesn't exist in Vietnam. The use of the Internet is monitored and the public is denied access to international satellite television channels. In addition, the authorities arrest political opponents, such as: publish their opinions via the Internet or through other channels. The possibilities of free speech and use of the Internet were further hampered in 2003. Several ‘cyberdissidents’ and journalists who have done nothing wrong but fight for the possibility of using the Internet freely, as we take for granted, have been arrested and imprisoned. For example, Internet journalist Pham Hong Son initially received a 13-year sentence for spreading democratically friendly opinions online. In the summer of 2003, the sentence was reduced to five years imprisonment in a higher court, under international pressure. But of course, the man was not to be in prison at all. We also know that the media are used to spread negative propaganda about imprisoned dissidents, so that there are doubts about whether they are, are political prisoners or imprisoned for their faith, or are they talking about common criminals. Vietnam practises widespread use of the death penalty for financial crime and for drug crime. Death penalty is used in several places in the world to punish the most serious types of crime. But in Vietnam this is also used in fraud cases and in minor drug cases. There is little legal certainty during the proceedings of the courts. The defenders have little opportunity to talk to their clients and, in addition, have very limited opportunities to protect the interests of the accused during the criminal proceedings. For example, the defenders have not access to cross-examination of witnesses. This is serious. The authorities crush and control the activities of religious groups. This affects both Protestants, Catholics and members of the forbidden Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam. For example, Vietnamese authorities believe that they should have the right to approve or reject religious leaders, such as bishops. Believers are placed in labor camps where conditions are far from good. Prisoning Buddhists and Christians often occurs. The Norwegian Mission to the East, with reference to safe sources in Vietnam, states that it Today, at least ten people are in Vietnamese prisons solely because they have told others about their Christian faith. In December 2003, the internationally recognised organisation Human Rights Watch had knowledge of over 100 Christians from the Montagenard minority in prison. They have 124 people on their lists of people who punish solely because of their religious beliefs, and 60 of them were imprisoned as late as 2003. Some have been sentenced to up to 13 years in prison for non-violent political activity, for organizing Christian gatherings or for attempting to seek asylum in Cambodia. Human Rights Watch also tells us that refugees who have been returned have been tortured after returning to Vietnam. Christian gatherings and meetings outside the homes are generally prohibited, at least in the area where the Montagenard group lives. This is a violation of one of our most fundamental human rights, namely the right to freedom of religion. How, then, can Norway influence? It's important that the international community doesn't ten, when we know that there's serious abuse elsewhere in the world. Norway has traditionally been a champion of human rights both at home and abroad. Through this interpellation, I want to focus on the conditions in Vietnam, and ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to work proactively and in several ways to improve the lives of the people of Vietnam. Norway provides indirect money to Vietnam through the World Bank and the IMF. Each year, these organisations and representatives of 50 countries meet for conferences, most recently in Hanoi on 2 and 3 December 2003. In such contexts, it must be spoken clearly, not silently. We know Vietnamese authorities care about what the international community says and thinks, especially when economic power is put behind the demands. Norway needs to put pressure on the UN to take up the human rights situation in Vietnam with Vietnamese authorities. We must make the following demands to the authorities of Vietnam: 1st@item: inlistbox All prisoners of peaceful religious and political views must be released immediately and without conditions.2. The practice of secret prison and secret justice and the system of administrative prisons must cease immediately.3. Vietnam's penal code needs to be amended to comply with international human rights. Peaceful religious and political gatherings may be permitted.4. The prohibition of religious meetings and services must be abolished.5. The pressure on Christian assemblers to renounce their faith must cease.6. Norway must insist that diplomats, independent journalists and UN experts have access throughout the country, including in the central highlands of Vietnam. I end my speech with a challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What will the Council of State do specifically to help the people of Vietnam get a better daily life, by respecting human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e150	I agree with Mr Marthinsen that the human rights situation in Vietnam is worrying. Unfortunately, it is true that the number of political prisoners has increased in 2003. After the figures obtained by the Norwegian Embassy in Hanoi, three–four dissidents have been sentenced to long prison sentences for the last year and a half, while another two–three dissidents are finally awaiting sentence after being arrested during the same period. Norway has raised the issues referred to by the representative Marthinen, with the Vietnamese authorities. We have an open dialogue with Vietnam on human rights issues. The right to freedom of religion, freedom of expression and the position of minorities will remain central to this dialogue. We will also look at the possibilities for supporting reform work in the judiciary, with a view to anchoring the activities of the courts in human rights. The next meeting between Norway and Vietnam on human rights will take place in Oslo in May. The conditions for religious practice in Vietnam have improved in recent years. However, the situation of Vietnamese people who do not profess one of the country's six official religious communities remains worrying. Limitations on the freedom of the congregation result in a number of Buddhist and Christian congregations meeting in hiding. These restrictions are not necessarily motivated by religious reasons, but are equally based on the suspicion that the churches may be potential sites for political opposition. Like the representative Marthinsen, we have also received information that the Buddhist monk Thich Quang Do and other members of the Buddhist community in Vietnam have been subjected to arrest, interrogation and harassment. Since last summer the Vietnamese authorities allowed the assembly to hold a congress, more stringent restrictions have again been imposed. The Norwegian Embassy in Hanoi took up Mr Thich Quang Dos' case with the Vietnamese Ministry of Foreign Affairs not later than 24 November last year. Vietnamese authorities deny that he is under house arrest, but it has in practice proved impossible for foreign diplomats in Hanoi to visit him. The American senator Sam Brownback visited the Catholic priest Father Ly in prison in the first week of January of this year. Brownback is the first foreign authority to meet Ly since the October 2001 conviction. Father Light's health situation should be good according to the conditions. The Norwegian Embassy follows Father Ly's situation closely. Despite some progress, there are clear restrictions on freedom of expression. The press is at risk of severe punishment for criticism by the government and the Communist Party. Access to the Internet and e-mail is deliberately restricted by the authorities. However, positive developments indicate that the authorities are letting corruption and criticism of economic reforms pass. A representative of the Norwegian Embassy in Hanoi tried to access the trial against journalist Nguyen Vu Binh, who was sentenced to seven years in prison in 2003. Like diplomats from the United States, Canada and EU countries, the Norwegian official was denied access to the courtroom. Vietnam has achieved an impressive reduction in poverty in recent years, but it is important that this development benefits the entire population. In the context of development cooperation, Norway supports educational projects aimed at ethnic minorities. 92 pst. by the Vietnamese are literate. Nevertheless, illiteracy is widespread among the minority population. The key to these citizens to participate in the development of wealth is to invest in providing them with education. Norway's efforts include: to build primary schools and to strengthen teacher training. The Minister of State for Education of Vietnam will visit Norway later in spring for example. to discuss this. Norway's Embassy in Hanoi also has regular contacts with the Committee on Ethnic Minorities in the Vietnam National Assembly. The use of the death penalty in Vietnam is still widespread. It was a step in the right direction when the country's authorities in 1999 reduced the number of crimes punishable by death from 44 to 29. But despite these changes in law, the number of death sentences increased in the following years. We are also concerned that Vietnam decided in January this year to keep secret information about the use of the death penalty, such as the number of convictions and executions. During the human rights dialogue with Norway, the Vietnamese authorities have stated that they wish to abolish the use of the death penalty in the long term, which we naturally welcome. In 2003, Vietnam adopted an action plan for legal reforms. A legal expert associated with our Embassy in Hanoi will be working in March/April to identify concrete Norwegian contributions to this reform work. On 4 November 2003, representatives of the Norwegian Embassy in Hanoi examined the situation in a prison north of Hanoi following an invitation from the Vietnamese authorities. The invitation – given only to Norway – was achieved through the Norwegian human rights dialogue with Vietnam. The visit opened up the possibility of revisiting from the Vietnamese authorities to learn more about the Norwegian prison system. Another objective of the Norwegian human rights dialogue is to involve Vietnam more in the international work on human rights. The exchange of views on the work of the UN General Assembly and the Human Rights Commission in Geneva is central to this. Furthermore, Norway wants the annual human rights symposium organised by Norway, China and Canada to be added to Vietnam in December to further involve Vietnam in the regional human rights work in Asia.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e182	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, which I think had many positive elements, and which also show that Norway is taking this issue seriously. I fully support what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, that it is important to involve Vietnam more in the international work on human rights. The worst thing you can do is isolate such countries. It's important to give them the feeling of getting into the good company -- if we can call it that. At least it's important to give them a sense of acceptance as a nation and as a people, and to take their situation seriously. I think it's a right line to put on -- include and not exclude. It's very often easy to get so that when you disagree about something, you want to isolate. I think it's a very correct line the foreign minister here has expressed. I am also very pleased to hear that the country in dialogue with Norway has expressed its desire to abolish the use of death sentences. I don't know if my doubt is the most prominent in relation to my faith or my hope, but to the extent that you can trust that this becomes more than word, it is promising. I would ask the Foreign Minister to follow this up in the meeting he is signalling to be held in Oslo in May, to follow closely what progress is like, and to do what you say you want to do. So far there's a very closeness about the issues. I refer you to the quotation that goes on the premises of the courts for judgment. It is important when you cannot be present and hear both the reasoning, the evidence and the basis for the judgment that is decided on, that at least in the areas and the fields where you can, you press to open up a somewhat more transparent society in this area. I think that'll be very important. Because the concern is that you can say something, but you don't keep it. I knew an electrician once who was charged that he did not arrive at an agreed time, and he replied: You cannot promise and keep. It shouldn't be like that in Vietnam.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e189	The President will note that both faith and doubt may be well-founded for their use, but in terms of the extent of the use of the death penalty, probably the President would recommend sticking to statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e192	I noticed that the representative Marthinen several times used expressions as ‘follow closely with’. That's an expression that we're happy with in my department as well. Often it meets with a little skepticism, because people feel that one thing is to follow, but what do you do with it? I think it's very important just to stress that following closely in things like this is an important reality. Because, as Marthinsen was involved in his main post, international attention to that kind of thing is itself a very important factor. It's in itself important to follow up, and I can confirm that we do. So there were questions about the operational grips. I am pleased to note that Marthinsen and I fully agree with the basic idea, namely that we are engaged. And we get involved in this way, I hope, that we're in communication, that we're listening, and that it's possible to get there. What is often one of the important things in international politics is that it's not enough to express yourself so that the Norwegian home audience is satisfied, you also have to make sure that the commitment you have really leads to a change, that it makes a difference. I think we've managed to organize our engagement in a very important area in relation to Vietnam in such a way that they also listen to us, and that's the whole point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e199	Large international human rights organizations like Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch are concerned about the violations of human rights in Vietnam, like the interpellant and myself. The authorities of Vietnam have determined that reporting and statistics on the death penalty will not be published. Such statistics are referred to as state secrets. Political opponents and religious leaders, Christians and Buddhists, are systematically persecuted and harassed. The persecution of members of the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam has been increasing, especially in recent months. Four monks have been sentenced to detention for two years, accused of possessing documents with state secrets. Vietnamese authorities have now increased restrictions on Internet use. The citizens can be accused of espionage only by being online. Several cyberdissidents, as Internet users are called, have been sentenced to four to twelve years in prison. Prisoning of Montagenard's Christians has been going on in recent years. A total of 124 of them are now in prison, many with sentences of up to 13 years for a non-violent activity such as the organization of Christian gatherings. These people, belonging to the central highlands, have voluntarily returned from refugee camps in Cambodia. All they want is to cultivate the land of their ancestors and practice their Christianity. However, their soil is so fertile that the authorities are now dispersing them from there under the pretext of espionage and anti-state activity. The Vietnamese authorities use their own people to take over and cultivate the land. Many inhabitants of this central highlands have been frightened and have fled from their villages into other areas, where they are concealed in fear of reprisals. The Vietnamese authorities have forced them to ‘voluntary’ sign the confiscation of their country. In these days their Christian leaders are shut out from doing their work. They are accused of cooperating with what they call Montagenard's political organization. In Vietnam, which needs its inhabitants to rebuild the country after years of war, it's strange that the authorities don't see the value of letting their inhabitants loose and be creative and full of effort. Instead, resources are used to control and suspect them. I had hoped that communist regimes like what is in Vietnam had learned something about what is not practical over time. Norway’s notification to any contributing country must be that Vietnam must be required in respect of a minimum of human rights. A total of 2.5 million Vietnamese live outside Vietnam. We have a special responsibility for the Vietnamese who live in Norway. Many of them feel monitored from time to time and are anxious for their own family members who stayed back in Vietnam. Coming home on a visit can be risky. Norway is retiring from human rights violations in Vietnam. The world has many major conflicts that overshadow the abuses against individuals in Vietnam. It is therefore good that there are organisations such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International that can be watchmen on behalf of fundamental human rights worldwide.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e214	The interpellant took up a very worrying situation. Both the interpellant and the previous speaker gave a number of examples of the situation in Vietnam. As the representative Korsrud also correctly said, we are dealing with a communist regime and a totalitarian regime. You can ask yourself the question, is there any real will to change? Is this what we experience as small progress sometimes, an expression of a process against increased democracy? I'm afraid I doubt it. It has been seen, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also pointed out, an improved situation in relation to poverty reduction, while at the same time it is a negative development for the human rights situation. How do we relate to such states and regimes? How Can We Affect? This was also the basis for the interpellation, and it is the major challenge and problem. We are dealing from the Norwegian side differently with different totalitarian regimes. As far as Zimbabwe is concerned, we have cut the aid, and Burma is totally isolated. Is that desirable in relation to Vietnam? It's possible that it isn't. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the interpellant strongly argued that it is important to include. There may be a lot of good in those views, but an inclusion can also be a form of giving acceptance. If it is perceived and interpreted as such by the authorities in e.g. Vietnam, it's worrying. Now I'm not going to talk about either isolation or boycott of the Vietnamese regime, but for my part, I hope that kind of regimes aren't there to last forever, but that sooner or later they stand for fall, and preferably before. If, on the Norwegian side, we can in any way contribute to the establishment of a viable democracy in Vietnam, we should do so. The indirect assistance provided by the World Bank referred to the representative Marthinsen as one way to influence it. The state-to-state aid which is, however, modest, but which is present from the Norwegian side may be another way. I guess I don't think that these means, at least not the bilateral ones, are of such magnitude that they will influence the Vietnamese regime to change just because of it. But we have experienced other times that we have chosen to use such methods to engage in a slightly tougher dialogue with some countries. And I think it might be worth trying to see if the current human rights dialogue can also be expanded with other types of instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e223	There is no doubt that this is a very good initiative by the representative Marthinsen, and it has SV's full support. If we look at the situation in Vietnam, where there are a lot of different ethnic groups trying to adapt to a rapidly growing population, it is clear that there are huge internal conflicts, and the human rights problems are clearly increasing. They are both ethnic, religious and economic conflicts, and they can also go so far as to threaten Vietnam’s internal stability. It seems that Vietnam is on its way into that group of countries in Southeast Asia that still have ethnic conflicts, and where the situation is that the army, at least at times, is actually being used to defeat ethnic rebellion. Then you can just think about the condition of human rights, they can't be very good. What has happened over the last few years in Vietnam is that people living in overpopulated cities are being moved out into the country, up in the mountains, and there is some sort of ethnification going on, that is, one has started with large cash crop cultivation of coffee. And we know that one of the reasons why the coffee prices have gone down is that Vietnam has come into the market with a huge production. This creates difficulties for ethnic minorities who perceive this as their territory and who do not have the cash crop culture inside. When it comes to religious practice and freedom of expression, there is no doubt that human rights are violated both by individuals and by groups, as the reports clearly show. When the Human Rights Action Plan was discussed in the United Kingdom in November 2000, ten important actions were highlighted. And at least as I see it, the government has also followed up these points, after I understand the foreign minister's answer. In paragraph 8, it is quite clear: ‘The Government will strengthen the human rights dialogue with China, Turkey and Cuba and seek to establish dialogue with Vietnam and Indonesia.’;» So there's no doubt that this dialogue has been established. But then you can ask yourself, is that enough? There's a question you can always ask yourself. I see that the bilateral relationship is partly in order and that the contact is established, according to this action plan. But my challenge to the Minister of Foreign Affairs is: What does Norway do in the United Nations system to address this both in the MR Commission and in others is multilaterally related?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e243	This is a welcome debate. We're talking about one of the most brutal dictatorships in Asia. And when you visit Vietnam, you get the impression that the Communists are over, because you see the ads for Coca-Cola and IBM, but it's not. There is an extensive activity on the part of the Vietnamese Communist Party to improve Vietnam's human rights profile abroad. The Secretary-General of the Communist Party visited Brussels yesterday, and I think we need to see this visit in the light of this hectic activity in order to improve the profile. It is easy to understand that contact is important in view of the need for massive financial support from the Vietnamese Communist regime, which is now being provided to both EU Member States and from other countries, perhaps in particular loans and credits from the International Monetary Fund, the IMF. And we have to make demands. And I want to challenge the Foreign Minister in particular to comment on this. How can Norway contribute to the requirement of good governance and with good governance, including in the case of Vietnam? We know that it makes the impression when you tighten up on loan commitments, and it's happened at least once before. Vietnam's ancient Buddhist culture is held in an iron grip by the regime. That's about. 80 million inhabitants in Vietnam, and 2 million members of the Communist Party hold this nation in an iron grip. It's 50 million Buddhists and 8 million Catholics. Clearly, these great religious communities represent a threat to the small Communist Party, which has all the power. I think it's a matter of time before the dictatorship has to lose, and then it's important that we can contribute. I myself visited both Thich Quang Do and Father Nguyen Van Ly in April 2001. Thich Quang Do has been harassed for decades. Under the flood four years ago, for example, He was not allowed to do humanitarian work on behalf of the Buddhists, because he was afraid that he would become too popular because of it. What does Father Nguyen Van Ly's crime consist of? Yes, he has written a little booklet on § 18 and § 19 of the International Declaration of Human Rights and has pointed out that Vietnam has signed it. He has had fax lines and telephone lines cut, and when I met him, we were surrounded by approx. 100 policemen. I was arrested and tasted some of this brutal regime. I believe that we must demand something, that Thich Huyen Quang, the chief leader of the Buddhist community, Thich Quang Do and Father Nguyen Van Ly must be released immediately. It's got to end with gross abuse. Dialogue is important, but I have not actually recorded an improvement. It loosens a little bit, and then it tightens up again. But it's important to do something now. What can make an impression is to tighten up financial requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e258	The interpellant takes on a very important theme – the human rights of a communist dictatorship. Freedom of expression and democratic institutions are a major flaw. Arbitrary prisons, criminal proceedings and executions take place – without the full commitment to it from the free world. The excitement that marked parts of the Western world after the invasion of the Ho Chi Minh forces in Saigon in the spring of 1975 has faded – and ended in a 30-year continuous violation of human rights. Vietnam, with its 80 million inhabitants, has needed economic reforms, like its Communist neighbouring country Cambodia, Laos and, not least, China. These countries want to participate in global economic growth. Much of the social and economic well-being these countries now experience is created as a result of cheap and mass-produced goods for marketing and sales worldwide. Without open international markets for sales, technology exchanges and liberal international credit markets, economic growth in these countries would be much lower. The openness of these countries in economic trade with other countries does not affect the citizens of these countries. Violation of human rights is hidden behind the successful economic progress in recent years. Nevertheless, millions of people in the South-East Asian region are exposed to brainwashing and torture, resulting in death. Women are humiliated and raped. Former president of China, Jiang Zemin, even issued a directive against the non-political movement of meditation Falun Gong: ‘Destructe their reputation, destroy them financially, and eliminate their bodies.’ So this brutal act is declared by the top political leadership in China against people who meditate and wear yellow scars. The methods of torture revealed against people with a dissenting view of communist ideology are not milder in form even though the countries have opened up economically to the outside world. Rather, they are even more brutal and outspoken, because international society focuses on economic and political cohesion and not on human rights violations. Not only do the South-East Asian Communist states exert violence and torture and engage in assaults against political dissidents, religious leaders and ethnic minorities, they also engage in hostile acts against neighbouring states. In particular, China, with its strong internal control, commits improper acts against countries such as Nepal, Tibet and Bhutan. Democratic Taiwan is still being involved in internal affairs from China. China has almost posed a standing threat of invasion if Taiwan does not control itself in the attempt to be internationally recognised as an independent country. Norway, which itself fought for independence for some hundred years, should be a champion of, among other things. the recognition of an independent Taiwan under the flag of the United Nations. Norway must also target the world community that human rights violations in Vietnam and the rest of the region cannot be covered by successful economies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e274	I thank you for all the speeches in this debate. I think it is reassuring to note that there is cross-political consensus, but I was basically not at all particularly in doubt that it would be in these important human rights issues. It's about both faith and thought, and it's about developing like whole people. The representative, Høglund, expressed that inclusion can be seen as acceptable, and if so, it is unfortunate. I fully agree with that. When I use the term ‘include’ in my post, it is about establishing a dialogue that is clear in its content as well. What you're talking about is the problem, from the outside world's point of view. Lars Rise also stated that the dialogues did not always have the desired effect, they could only have a temporary effect. You loosen up a little bit, and then you tighten it up again. Then it's important -- because I don't draw these statements for a second in doubt -- that we follow it up. And I've understood the Foreign Minister so that's what he's doing, and that he still wants to do it in these conversations. I am pleased that it is so clear from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that you are on the floor, because it is when you are on the floor that you also have the opportunity to express what may be some unpleasant topic of conversation. We might have learned in the relationship with our children that if we were to get them to do what we wanted, we would either have to have a carrot or, someone would say, there would have to be a rice behind the mirror. Contributing to raising a country financially can be just such a carrot or whip – I don't know what to call it, I'd rather be positive. It is clear that it is important that we, the world community, if we are serious about the need to implement and enforce human rights in all countries, have some means of power behind our words. It is important not to do this on time and on time, but in this case it may also be a possible tool. Otherwise, in my article I have also expressed some points that I think it is important to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e287	I then note that there is agreement between the representative Marthinsen and me on how we should approach these questions. Lars Rise had a slightly different approach, namely how to use assistance as a political tool or as a ‘ris behind the mirror’, which was the expression of the representative Marthinsen. It's a different area than what's my responsibility, and it's an angle that we haven't persecuted in Vietnam so far. I agree that it must be a whip. The problem is that the whipping disorder often affects people other than those who make the decisions. That is the fundamental dilemma we face by using the fight against poverty in this context. In Zimbabwe, we are faced with the situation that it is not possible to do what you want in this situation. This dilemma arises very clearly in the context of Burma, which was mentioned, which is who feels the whipping pain when we use that type of instrument. We have to think about that very carefully. Of course, we are constantly discussing this with the responsible minister. But it's a tool that we haven't used here so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e294	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e308	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e319	First, I would like to say that the consideration of this matter has taken time, but that the committee has done a thorough job. In addition to the hearing, we have had several meetings to find a good design of a possible receipt system. We have had meetings to find alternative measures to strengthen trust between the police and the public and to gain more knowledge about the relationship between police and ethnic minorities and between police and other groups that may be particularly vulnerable and vulnerable to the so-called ‘police moment’ described earlier by Liv Finstad. The Committee sees it as very positive that the Ministry has taken several initiatives in examining the proposal for a system of police receipts. The Parliamentary Advocate wants, among other things: intensifies the procedures with regard to the second paragraph of Section 199 of the Criminal Procedures Act, which requires a report to be written every time someone has been examined under the provisions of Section 198 of the First paragraph of the Criminal Procedures Act. Two and three. Secondly, as a result of the SVs, the Workers' Party's and the Advance Party's proposal for a reception system, we will now have a police with a visible service number. Thirdly, funds will be put in place within the framework of the Ministry of Justice to launch a research project, in which qualitative and quantitative studies will be made of the relationship between police and ethnic minorities. We're very satisfied with this from SV. We see it as a direct result of the initiative taken by the Organisation Against Public Discrimination and SV in due course to put in place a certification scheme for the Norwegian police. Having said that, I have to say that SV is disappointed that the Progress Party has been sweeping out in the last few years, so that we will not even be able to test whether a system of receipts could have a purpose, or whether other measures could work better to achieve better trust between the police and the public, and between the police and ethnic minorities in particular. SV has underlined that the measure would not be a bureaucratic and cost-intensive burden on the police, such as the following: The Chairman of the Committee, Trond Helleland, has given the impression in the media. The receipt scheme was to consist of a business card containing the service number, the time and place of the check, and it would be up to the officer who carried out the check, which information was to be entered in the PO log. This would neither be expensive nor bureaucratic, but would represent a service statement to the public, make the police more aware of their own work and how they appear in the meeting with the citizens, and it would give particularly vulnerable citizens an opportunity to prove that they are just that. Of course, SV is aware of the danger that someone will be able to take advantage of the opportunity to collect such cards. In addition, the media may apprehend such a so-called ‘certificate’, but the media write about such cases already today. Then the police have little to defend themselves with. A receipt scheme could provide the officers with an incentive to register more of what is happening, when they are out of work, and thus help to strengthen their own credibility in these matters. I see that this can be done independently of a receipt scheme as well, and expect the police management to be the driving force for the police to better record what they are doing on the job. I also expect the police to look more critically at their own business, and that the police and the committee together will think about whether it makes sense for the newly trained officers to start in the orderly service, and whether the education is well adapted to the expectations of a modern audience, such as that. requires good information. I know that the Police College has a case for treatment that deals with practical conflict management. We look forward to this work in SV with tension. Furthermore, we are concerned that the appeals procedure in the police department needs to be much better. There is no doubt that we have a capable police force, but everyone in society has an improvement potential, and everyone should be open to admit that what they see as unproblematic can be perceived as problematic by others. In the end, I would like to say a few words about the progress of the party in this matter. On the SV side, we are relatively shocked by how they have emerged: from suddenly supporting a proposal that SV and the Workers' Party had in the hall – some have insinuated that this has to do with Carl I. Hagen's temperament this evening – to defend it in a way as follows: ‘In the case of the Progress Party, this is a matter of fundamental legal certainty for all who are being visited and, as such, of a need to be able to demonstrate this in a purely demonstrative manner if problems arise in relation to whether or not a visit has taken place. The date of the inspection, the time, the place and the service number may hardly be so time consuming as to provide that this would lead to some particular extra time. In this way, we would like to have a proposal to the Stortinget." What has happened in the meantime, which makes the situation completely different now? I would say that what has happened is that the Progress Party has bowed down to all the untruths that Trond Helleland has spread in the media in connection with this. I believe there is little respect for that. I hope that this will not happen in the future, but that you will be able to stand by what you have said before, and at least try out whether what you have stood for actually turns out to be working according to your purpose. And that is what this proposal is about: two pilot projects, and not even that we get through. So we're disappointed in that. I take up our proposal in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e354	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. The President has doubts as to whether the expression ‘fake-out’ is parliamentary language. On the other hand, the President is not in doubt that there is a little recommendable form of language in Stortinget. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e361	The right is very serious about the fact that the Socialist Left promotes a private proposal and changes the intention in the process, when they understand that there is no need for the proposal they are making. No Marte Thorkildsen said in Stortinget on 19 June 2002 that it concerns ‘basic principles of legal certainty’. Further: ‘This is the possibility of investigating whether the police go specifically to specific groups on the basis of prejudices which you may have and which you do not necessarily have on a voluntary basis, or whether we can, on the contrary, establish that this does not happen.’ The representative of Thorkildsen says in the further treatment that it has nothing to do with ethnic minorities. It also says the Workers' Party, although the representatives Gjul and Storberget in a chronicle in the newspaper on 2 June 2003 say that the importance of the scheme is that people with a different skin color are controlled more often than others by the police. Is it the case that SV is so easily influenced by partner organisations that you do not actually go out and investigate whether the proposal you are making is necessary and that you want the Storting to decide?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e375	I'm going to say it's the opposite. It is the representative Linda Cathrine Hofstad and her colleagues in the government fraction who do not want to find out whether this is a good proposal, through just the trial project that her own government has proposed. I would like to point out that in Regeringen's action programme against racism and discrimination, where it is recognised that there may be cases of ethnic discrimination in the police, this action is framed as one of several measures that can be taken to prevent discriminatory practices against ethnic minorities. I would also like to point out that these are quite serious issues. In its latest report on Norway, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance has actually recommended the introduction of a system for monitoring the frequency of police checks on individuals. And we've got criticism from the United Nations that we don't have any arrangements to check that the police don't discriminate against ethnic minorities. So this I think we're going to take a little bit more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e384	I will first be allowed to thank SV for their concern about internal medicine in the Progress Party. It's always good to have some care for each other, and you have to have it. And then we're going to evaluate the content of it. I record that the representative of Thorkildsen is concerned about the statements of André Kukkestad. Among other things, she referred to to some things he said in 2002. And the last thing she referred to instead, was what he said about 'that is, we want to get suggestions on this to the Stortinget'. If she reads the groceries message from the department, it says, among other things. – also a record from the Progress Party stated – that the Progress Party “will come back to concrete consideration when the proposals are promoted”. Then it becomes strange to me that the representative of Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, has already concluded on what to do. Is it so to understand that the representative does not agree with the wording contained in the big message, where the opinion of the Progress Party appears to be correct, as it should be, namely that we will ‘return to concrete treatment’? Is there a problem with how the representative felt?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e395	To put it that way, I don't think you need to be a member of Mensa to realize that this has been an internal battle in the Progress Party in relation to whether or not to do this. There have been certain problems in relation to pride and honor, I think, also, in relation to how one appeared in the Chamber the night this was adopted. I respect the fact that the Progress Party has chosen to turn around, but there is something about lowering the tab a little in relation to the arguments that have now been used to counter the receipt system, where the representative Ellingen from the Progress Party has been quite hard on the outside and tried to say that this will almost take the break of the Norwegian police financially, because it will be violently expensive and violently bureaucratic. I would then ask the representative Ellingen, since he seems to be open to a change, to read the attitude from the minority one more time to see if this is really a very bureaucratic and expensive system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e402	I'm not going to use many words in this line, just ask the representative Thorkildsen: if this is as important as it has been said, why have the reasons changed along the way, from what was claimed when the case was promoted to what is now in the position?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e407	The reasons for this have not been changed. It is, as I explained earlier, based on a concern such as, among other things, ECRI and the UN have had a relationship with us. Sjøl Government realizes that possibly some internal police have problems with ethnic minorities, and we have tried to take the consequences off with this proposal. It is clear that we have worked through meetings with different representatives from both the police, the research community and others to see how we can design this to be as good as possible. At first we had a hope that we might at least get the Progress Party to stand this course out, and maybe also get the entire committee to stand behind. So we don't realize that we've changed the reason for going for this -- on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e414	The President is not quite sure what the opposite of changing is, but assumes that it's standing firm. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e420	The multicultural society we now have in Norway also has many sides. It has its joys and its sorrows, and it presents us with challenges. Those who come here will try to understand and become part of our society. Those who are born and raised here in the country, but who have parents born in another country, should relate to their parents and their culture, but they feel naturally also Norwegian, and relate to Norwegian culture. All public services — including schools, health services, public offices or justice — shall treat any person respectfully and equally. It is deeply anchored in the Norwegian People's Party. We don't like injustice. However, there are unfortunately many examples of young, dark-skinned men being stopped by police innumerable times. There's no new phenomenon. It's happened for many years. They are stopped, for example. in cars they are driving, and the certificate, the registration certificate and all registers are checked. It doesn't help that they say that this was done last week, or that this has been done many times in the last month. They don't have any evidence to show that would substantiate what they're saying. If they show impatience, control may run out and pull out, and if they don't cooperate gently and smile wide, it's not that far to a reaction that they might prevent policemen from doing their job. Strangely enough, these matters are quickly clarified in relation to other matters, and such young people have first received a fine, it is in progress. They have to spend extra time when they're going to do something, because they have to expect to be stopped every time they go out, for example. in a car – and it is a frustrating everyday life. They don't get any evidence to show that they've really been stopped. They are often not believed if they say so. Norway has received critical comments from ECRI – the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance – and we have received critical comments from the UN body CERD. The organisation OMOD has also addressed this, at least in the last 10 years. I want to read something from a case that was in the evening post last April. It's about a guy who's been adopted from Columbia and comes home from his cooking job. It's pretty much like this: Night by Friday he and his girlfriend were on his way home to his apartment, which is located in the same house as his parents live in. This is what happened, according to the two: while they are waiting for the garage door to open, they notice a white, unmarked car behind them. From there, someone lights up with a powerful flashlight on the face of the boy. He gets scared, goes out of the car, and two guys require him to show his license and driver's license. They are dressed in civil and do not show legitimacy. Instead, they behave aggressively. They suggest that he may have stolen his own car and that he looks like he's been affected by drugs. None of the two kids are allowed to call in the boy's parents, who are sleeping in the house. One of the policemen gives the service number, the other one refuses. The boyfriend has been stopped several times when she's been sitting on with her dark-skinned girlfriend. When she has driven herself, she has never been stopped. The father has driven the same car a lot, and he has never been stopped in 40 years on the road. Both are white in the skin. They're quite shocked by the behaviour of the police. During the appearance of the night until Friday, the boy finally managed to call his father in secret. He woke up and went out. Then the two policemen completely changed their behavior. Once they realized that the white man was the father, everything was fine. They just left, without having been denied any of their suspicions, they just saw that Dad was white, telling the boy. This story is not unique. I mean, we're actually going to say black on white that this applies to those who look different in our Norwegian society. A majority at Stortinget instructed the Government to come up with a case on how this problem could be handled better. We asked that some form of receipt mechanism be promoted, so that those who were stopped could have something in writing to show after being checked by the police. The government came back with a proposal for a trial project with a police receipt system in case of visits and other checks. Such a project is also important for us to get the knowledge we need, knowing that we don't build our solutions here on vision that has the background in stories that flourish, stories that we don't know anything about. That's the documentation that would have been important. We could really have assessed the police's control frequency, we could have verified the need for the checks, and we could have been documented on the accuracy of how many criminals these checks actually revealed. But today, the bulk of population is going to be slightly different than on 19 June 2002, unfortunately. The everyday life of young Northmen with unorthodox looks is just a little bit improved. Police officers will now receive a visible service number that can be used to report that they have been stopped. But when the checks are not written into the police patrol log, you can ask who is believed when a dark-skinned boy's word is against what two police officers say. All police districts report too little money. They have to keep job vacancies available, they say, in order to do the job we have set them up to do. In my mind, the more you can document what you do in your daily work, and the better you can document good professional work, the better you stand rusty in the fight for economic resources. But obviously this is not what the police or the bulk of the population think, unfortunately. I thought I'd end up with another little story. There were two Norwegian youths who got a job as teachers in high school. One came to the police chamber in his hometown and asked, "Can I get a police record, because I'm going to start as a teacher? At the police chamber, they said it was okay, and they gave it over the counter. Then the dark-skinned colleague came to his police district and asked if he could get a police certificate because he had received a job in high school. Then it turned black no. They wanted to see evidence that he had got the job. He had to go back to school and ask for proof that he had actually been offered a job before he received a police certificate. So this isn't just about a few stories. It's happening all the time. We need documentation, because this is not tolerated in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e454	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e457	The working party has relied on SV's comments regarding a receipt scheme. In my opinion, the proposal for a receipt scheme is nothing but a mere mistrust of the police's work. I have to say, after hearing Ruis' posts, that it is confirmed. What does the representative Rui know about the trust between the police and the minority population that the representative is involved in? Is it not the case that the police are cutting the highest among all professional groups in Norway in terms of having confidence in the population? The working party and SV complete their comments as follows: ‘... these members consider it sad that the trial project proposed by the Ministry is not being carried out because such a project could provide useful and valuable input both to the police themselves and to the members of the Judicial Committee.’ I find it alarming that the Workers' Party is willing to use millions of police-pressed resources to get useful input from the Workers' Party members of the Judicial Committee. Has the Workers' Party become a political seminar that is more concerned with recordings than with results?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e473	No, we're busy with results. We're dedicated to getting good results. I have to say that if I had been a police officer, I would have been very busy keeping the trust the police have among the Northmen. They're cutting high among us white Northmen. Then I can't understand why the police aren't busy getting the truth out. Then they could say, this is not true. The stories aren't right. Everyone can trust us. Here is the documentation. We can show you a trial project in two counties. We want the truth out. We don't want a racist stamp, as the police have among some people in Norway, a stamp they don't deserve. That's why I have to say it surprises me that it seems that the police don't want to get the truth out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e480	I fully understand the ambition of the Workers' Party and the desire to tackle things that they experience as unfair. I think that's good, and of course you have to back that up. At the same time, the representative Rui is probably also reasonably aware that much of this is about trust and priority in the political system. So at least our approach to this matter is. The Workers' Party was a budgetary partner with the government parties last autumn. If this scheme was so important, what was the reason why the Workers' Party did not choose to prioritise it at the top of the negotiations? The working party had other things on which the party was very clear. Here one would probably have been able to put leadership through negotiations with the Government on how to end to the seventh and last on this matter. But then it wasn't important enough. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e489	In budgetary cooperation with the Government, the representative Ellingsen knows well that the Labour Party prioritised work, health and school. These were the main points for which we had a say in the budgetary procedure. But I have to say that what surprises me is that the Progress Party does not see this scheme as an opportunity to get into the police even more people who actually have an environmental and cultural background that we do not have in the Norwegian police today. I don't think what the boys experience in Norwegian society today makes them want to apply to the police. They feel completely disdained by the Norwegian police, and therefore they will never apply there. We have had a desire to have a multicultural police force in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e496	The representative, Mr Rui, in his speech today, and also in other contexts, gave the Committee insight into episodes that have been very unfortunate – we can no doubt put ourselves behind them. They express opinions that we believe are completely unacceptable, and the issue of eliminating such unfortunate episodes is, I think, a cross-political consensus. I think the whole committee can stand behind that. But what is a fact is that experience from countries that have set up a system of receipts shows that it does not provide the desired results, namely an improved relationship between the police and certain groups in society. Once this has been told by the committee of those who have experienced it, why will the Workers' Party continue to adhere to such a system?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e503	The scheme has been tried, for example: in England, and we have been told that the percentage hit by the checks is higher – they hit the criminals more often. That's one of the results we see. It's a very useful documentation for the English police. I must also say that the Customs Administration in Norway has changed its practice. They now have a higher percentage of hits and can prove that they are doing a real job. In this case, there is a trial project, which the Government has proposed, in order to obtain evidence as to whether this is correct or not. That's just what we're asking: a trial project to get better knowledge and more documentation. I can't believe it could've been dangerous to figure out whether we're doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e510	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e513	I am very pleased that the majority of the Stortning today is voting for the proposal that exists. It would be very special if the Stortinge were to be in favour of a system in which the proposal has abandoned the actual intention of the proposers. I don't want to hide that the police have a very tight budget. Therefore, it is totally irresponsible for us as big-time politicians to pick up on a proposal that an organisation has proposed for the SV’s large-scale group, and that SV submits without investigating whether there is a need for such a scheme, or whether this could be useful. It is not to hide that there are some events that should of course have been avoided in the meeting between the police and the audience. There will always be some elements in the Norwegian police that one might wish to have behaved differently on some occasions. But I have to say that after I learned to know the Norwegian police and got the opportunity to see how they work, I'm actually very impressed with how they deal with some situations that they come up with, which are very difficult for them. If there are elements in the police that treat people differently because of ethnic origin, there can be concrete complaints against these officials. With the new complaint procedure that Stortinget has accepted, it will also be easier to appeal to certain officials who the public believes have behaved in a way that was not good. The Judicial Committee has taken a serious view that the scheme has not worked. In order to ensure the legal certainty of the public, we now want to look at a system that can better ensure legal certainty for individuals. The right agrees that the police can always take some action to get even better at meeting the audience. But now, fortunately, we are in such a situation in this country that most people have great confidence in the police. This is not something that comes of itself, but something that the police have to work for every day. In the Right we believe that the police themselves know best how to improve the officials in the meeting with the audience. The proposed reception system is not suitable for promoting the objective of ensuring a good relationship between the police and the public. From countries where the scheme has been tested, studies show that, on the contrary, a system of receipt promotes distance between the public and the police and that it is unnecessarily resource-intensive. The most worrying thing is that this is a system by which the police would often have stagnated to intervene, for fear of having to spend a very long time printing receipts, and to be branded racist. This scheme would be very unfortunate for the fight against crime. That the police are going to spend a lot of resources and a lot of their time standing up and filling in receipts, going back to the police station and recording this in a computer system instead of being out on the street and fighting crime, I think the audience would have reacted to that. With the new complaint body, we are going to ensure legal certainty and give the people who are being exposed to bad behaviour by the police an opportunity to complain. The rest of us are most well served by the police spending their resources on what to do, police work and not paperwork. That is why I am very pleased that the majority today opposes this arrangement, and I am particularly pleased that the Progress Party understood how evil this proposal was, and how bad this would have been for the Norwegian police, and therefore turned in the last hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e530	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e534	I have to respectfully say that I think the representative Linda Cathrine Hofstad has a pretty bad argument as to why the government parties in the Stortinget will not support the government's own proposal. She argues that the minority has deviated from its original justification and that they have amended the proposal along the way. It's wrong, we support the arrangement presented by the Dørum Government Council to the Stortinget about a probationary system with police clearance. The representative of Hofstad is also trying to ridicule the proposal by saying that this is a proposal that has only come from a single organisation with which SV has accidentally met. It shows a disrespectful approach to this serious problem. The situation is that there are more heavy organisations, including European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination and the United Nations, asking Norway to have such a system. So she says there'll be so much paperwork. It's also wrong, and I ask this question to Linda Cathrine Hofstad: why are you so afraid to go in for a trial plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e543	Yeah, there's someone who hasn't been messed up here, at least there's the government parties. Those who have messed up are the SV and the Workers' Party, which go away from their original reason. The proposer himself pointed out that there is no longer a need for what was really the intention, and that in the process we have to re-do this proposal, so that there is a way for the police to see how to use their resources and how the police act towards the public in some situations. Our reason for not going into a trial project is that it costs $3 million. NOK too much. Three million. costs a pilot project in the two police districts plus a lot of technical equipment and a lot of unnecessary resources. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to use the police's resources to combat crime rather than unnecessarily go in for a system of trial that we will not introduce.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e548	There is a lot to react to in the way the Right acts from this pulpit in this matter. The first thing I react strongly to is that the representatives from the Right are ignoring the fact that parts of the Norwegian multiethnic population actually feel that they do not trust the police. When the representative of Greece instead, for example: said that the police have a high level of trust, so he did not tell us at the same time that it is not for part of the population, especially that part of the population that has a minority ethnic background. It's a problem that I had expected that also the Right, who claims to be a party that is for the inclusion of these into society, would have taken inwards and so checked something down this case. Another thing about the production from the Right is whether this would be very expensive and bureaucratic. As the representative of Hofstad knows, it is a business card with a service number and the place and time of the inspection. And then it's not like the police officer has to drive right back to the police station and register this. As Hofstad knows, it is actually possible for him to do so at the end of his working day, or by bringing a person through whom he is going to the police station anyway. So this is just nonsense.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e555	It remains to be seen whether the representative, Mr Hofstad, will bring a cheque to the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e558	I'm not going to jerk myself off. SV is wasting money, so SV is 3 million. kr for a trial project not so much money. For the right hand side, 3 million. kr quite a lot of money to the police, who already have too little resources. The three million can be used for a lot: fighting crime instead of introducing a trial project out of which nothing will come out. I wonder what statistics the representative of Thorkildsen refers to. We haven't seen any statistics on the trust of the police from the multiethnic part of the population. In the Oslo Police Department for complaints against police officers, they have registered a few complaints. If there's such a big problem for the minority population in Norway how the police meet them, I think it's very special that no more complaints have been made about how the police deal with the audience.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e567	I'm a little disappointed with the Right Representatives in the Chamber today, because they're downgrading themselves to having a debate that's more appropriate for a youth right-wing debate than to look at the serious problem that the minority people are actually experiencing in their meeting with the police. We must take seriously the fact that the minority people in Norway feel that the meeting with the police is unpleasant, and the way in which it is now handled, I do not think that this is being taken seriously. I simply want to ask the question one more time to the representative Hofstad: why is the Right so afraid to launch a trial project that can actually help to strengthen confidence between the minority people we have in Norway and the police? I think we all deserve to have our trust strengthened. It is also said by the United Nations and the European Commission on Racism that Norway needs to launch such a project and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e574	I will reply again, and I hope that the representative Gjul understands this time. Right does not want to spend several million dollars on such a trial project. We trust that the police themselves, through their own research at the Police College, will find working methods that are important in order to improve police contact with the public. We believe in the attitude-building work, and we believe that the police themselves should find out how they might be better at meeting the audience. I think it's a little special that the representative Gjul comes up with our argument. Now the Right has only had one post for the time being, and there is clearly a lack of argument about this proposal, which makes the Workers' Party go free in our way of reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e583	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e586	First of all, I should like to say that the Progress Party fully understands and fully supports the intention of the proposal underpinning the discussion today, which was promoted by the Workers' Party and the SV in 2002. We think it's an overall goal, and it's important for all of us, that there's an ambition to improve the dialogue between the police and the public. The reason why it should be so important to us is, of course, that this should help prevent negative clashes and discrimination. If we focus on these things, we will be able to get a better everyday life for everyone. It is also important that this treatment focuses on the system we have today, and not least that we dare to ask questions about whether the proposed changes will make a positive overall contribution. If they don't, we think we have an obligation to say no to them. So I think it's important that we focus on the fact that the police have a special role in society. It also means that they have a special responsibility to maintain their own behaviour, so that the police can act with integrity while maintaining our integrity as they approach us closely. Because it's clear they're going to do it! In some cases, the police have a claim to go into single-citizens to check what they're doing, and to find out what's the reason they're where they are. Of course, the question will also be, can we avoid this? We can't. The police have a claim to seek out a number of areas. They will seek out a number of environments, and it is clear that then it will be possible to come into conflict situations. We can't avoid that. The point is that we have a cleanness around the process and approach. The Progress Party has confidence in police assessments of intervention in terms of prevention and prevention of crime. We're followers of a well-visible police force. Today we have a good professional police force with great confidence – I think I should go as far as to say: in all parts of the population. There are exceptions, but in general I think they have a very high level of trust out there. But there are exceptions, as the representative Rui was inside in his post instead. She referred to individual cases, which are the exceptions, and we're all going to help fight them. We have an obligation to do that, and not least the police themselves have a duty to do that. Then we learned something along the way in the process here. We had visits of Liv Finstad in the committee, and that was very interesting. She taught us about the 'police moment'. I think it was very good. I understood that she herself had moderated some of her views on the Norwegian police after working closely with them. She said the police see things that ordinary citizens don't see. I believe that some of the conflicts today are due to a lack of communication between the individual citizens and the police – given the way the police work. There is nothing bad about it, but there is simply a miscommunication between the two parties. That's what the germ is that we get negative feedback, which in many cases probably doesn't have a real reason. That's why I think we should be very conscious and be aware of what we're doing. It is also claimed that minorities are discriminated against and checked more frequently. In that case, if they do, is that right? It's probably also a fact, unfortunately, that some people with a different ethnic background are overrepresented in some types of crime, which the police also have a responsibility to follow up. I think it makes sense for the police to do that, and I hope they keep doing that. I think that a system of receipts, like you thought of it here, in the worst case, could lead to a greater distance between the police and the public. That would be a matter of concern to the Progress Party at least. A receipt is in view and shows nothing but a confirmation that you have been stopped. It doesn't say anything about the background, the content or anything else. I'm worried about the media: if a person is stopped x times, as the representative of Thorkildsen was in place, of course, you can say that it does not prove anything other than that he has been stopped, you don't say anything about the background, etc. – but we're going to have it with us, because the media is a power player in relation to society and what's happening in society. That's why we have to be conscious of the consequences of what we're doing. Then some have recorded that there has been a heated debate in the Progress Party. Yes, the Progress Party has had a significant debate on this matter. It hasn't been easy. There have been different opinions, and after a careful discussion, we have come to the conclusion that we will not support the proposal that is before us today. It is correct, as others have pointed out here, that in 2002 the representative Kukkestad, on behalf of the Progress Party, supported the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV. But I have to be allowed to clarify again: he also said that we would come back to the specific reading in the Chamber when the proposals were made. So we have not turned around, it is currently being dealt with in this Chamber. We do not deal with matters immediately, as is claimed by some others here. What, then, is the reason why the Advance Party is opposed to the receipt scheme? Well, we're not convinced that the solution is what happens through the receipt system. In any case, I have not experienced anyone saying on the way here that the receipt scheme is ‘hallelujah’ – in no way, they have said that the receipt scheme can be a contribution. But for us, the conclusion has been that that's not what we want to say yes to this time. If we had seen that it was what everyone wanted, of course we should also have said yes to it. For my part, there has been an assessment based on the actual situation facing the police. I understand that the police today have very tight resources available. Then it's like I think I have a joint responsibility in terms of priorities, by giving a political signal, and I do that today by saying no to going in for a probationary system. You could say it doesn't cost much, but it's a cost, and it has to be prioritised, like other things. I think that the Storting, including ourselves, sometimes has a need to go a little closer to itself. We're very good at saying yes, but we're not quite so good at saying no. Maybe we should be better at down priorities too? If we don't put those who are going to be our tool, the police, in a pinch of what they're actually going to, and should not. Another moment is that I register that Sweden, Denmark and Finland do not have a receipt scheme, but they do. The alternative for our part will then be, to sum up – we think the main response is there – awareness-raising work directed by the police. I think first of all about the training elements in the studies at the Police College, and of course I think about the daily guidance on work – I assume that when you are out in different contexts you communicate quite closely. We also believe that the new complaint mechanism will clearly be involved and contribute to focusing on this. Not least, it was also gratifying to record during the hearing that the Riksadvokat and others in the prosecution system and the police said to tighten up the procedures for complying with the criminal law. We think this will help make things easier. You've also noticed that the police have treated people a little too randomly when it comes to writing down things when you've stopped someone. It's okay that it can be critical. At the same time, I think we'll think about the reason for that. As some have said, if you stop someone and ask to see in their back, and they show that there is nothing there, is it reasonable that they should be registered in the police records? Well, I'm confident that the police have also exercised a reasonable discretion here. The basis has been that you don't need to be in the police records, because most of us probably don't want to be there – although some of us are there, I guess that's something most people are trying to avoid. I think that makes sense. I think that as long as the police do it in a reasonable way – I trust it – we will accept it and relate to it. In conclusion, there is an overall committee in favour of a visible service number, and I think that is positive. The outcome of the Workers' Party and SV initiative is, in fact, a visible service number agreed by the Committee. There we come after a lot of other countries, and I think that's good. I think quite clearly that this will help to contribute to a totally positive solution. The hope is that the search light placed on this matter will contribute positively, among other things. through visible service number. At the end of the day, it is probably the interpersonal attitudes of each of us that are crucial to how we deal with/accept our fellow human beings. So it's the interpersonal factor in all of us that's crucial to whether things work or not. So that means that we can only jointly solve this, and the main issue is the mind-creating work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e635	First of all, I would like to thank the representative Ellingsen for a very factual and tidy statement. It is in stark contrast to the representation that the Right has had in the hall here today. However, I have to point out that I think there is a strange game The Progress Party has shown in this case – from the party on 19 June 2002 turned in a few evening hours and became for the receipt scheme that was originally opposed, until now, during this process in Stortinget, turns around and is against again. I want to say that in June 2002, the representative Kukkestad had a very good argument that he suddenly became in favour of the receipt system, because he said that it was a ‘basic legal certainty’. In addition, he said that it is ‘such as the need to be able to demonstrate this in a purely demonstrative manner if problems arise in relation to whether or not a visit has taken place’. He just argued that there could not be so much practical work related to control, time, location and service number, that it would not be worth much bureaucracy. That is why I wonder why the representative of the Progress Party cannot participate in a pilot project. We are also not sure that this is a «hallelujah», but we do not know that until we have tried it!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e651	I don't know if I should start with «hallelujah» – I might be careful with that. For me, the challenge of Gjul is a little paradoxical. So this is where the Progress Party gets first and foremost criticism of having turned around, but now I'm being challenged to turn again. [[Laughter]] Is it the way that the general today is putting us into trouble, you're in the process of success. That's my conclusion so far. Back to the very challenge that I got. If you add the will, I think the last thing that the representative André Kukkestad's intention was that if there was a proposal – and that did so, when we in the Progress Party supported the Workers' Party and SV – you would have to go through the issues, whether it is a problem that Norwegian police discriminates to a large extent. What we said at the same time – I should not say that this is the last time I said it today, I might have to do it several times – was that we would come back to the specific procedure when the matter was brought before Stortinget. We have done that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e660	The mountain weather rules are deep in the Norwegian people – it is no shame to turn around in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e663	The Progress Party's Jan Arild Ellingsen has told NTB that there is a resource situation in the police and no other consideration that the Progress Party will not spend 2-3 million. kr on the test project for the acceptance scheme. Does this mean that the Progress Party really wants a system of receipts and will propose it in its future budgets? The Progress Party, together with the Labour Party and the SV, voted in June 2002 in favour of the proposal for a system of acknowledgement on the grounds that it would strengthen legal certainty. In the same meeting, the Progress Party promoted proposals on the use of water cannons in major demonstrations, and to equip the police with batons and pepper spray. Doesn't the representative of Ellingen's argument on better legal certainty reflect a little bit when police visitation requires the handing out of the receipt to the visited person, while water cannons can almost flutter away hundreds of demonstrators without any kind of receipt? How does the Progress Party interpret legal certainty in such circumstances?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e670	This is becoming an exciting show, I register! I welcome the concern expressed by the representative, Mr Dybevig, for the attitude of the Progress Party towards the system of receipts. At the same time: if he's worried that we've turned around, maybe the Right could have supported this, if it was so that he actually wanted it. It almost sounded like this on the post he now had. I think perhaps the representative Dybevig should talk to his colleagues on the Justice Committee, because I have recently heard the representative of Hofstad say that the police have far too little resources – and that 3 million. NOK is a lot of money for the Right. But that might not be the case for the Right in Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e679	I noticed that the representative Ellingen criticized the use of money in relation to this, and that is why you are now turning around. You don't want to spend 3.5 million. kr. Firstly, I would just like to point out that the proposal from the minority is a limited version of what was on the department's side, among other things. not to create a completely new system for recording data. You have to use the PH log that's in there. Secondly, I would like to make a small call to the representative Ellingen that perhaps the scarce resources of the Ministry of Justice should not be used to determine whether the measures that had to be found appropriate at all times in the Grand Duchy actually prove to be so. I wonder if the representative Ellingen thinks it's an objective to get more ethnic minorities into the police. In that case, would Ellings initiate additional measures, and not necessarily quotas, to get more minorities into the police, because this would be an advantage, as opposed to Ellingsen's position on women in the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e690	To the representative of Thorkildsen, I would like to say the following: When it comes to getting people with a migrant background to apply to the Norwegian police, the Progress Party will not be in favour of any special arrangements in relation to that. They get to search on the same line as others. Then we get to hope that the profession is attractive, and that they have the professional skills needed to be qualified and admitted there. In the case of female leaders, the representative Thorkildsen and I have discussed it more than once. Of course, the party of progress places the same demands there. It shall be the qualitative aspects to be assessed as to whether you are fit, not sex.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e697	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e700	The demand for equal treatment of all, regardless of ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation and social status is unconditional to me and to the Christian People's Party. Everyone has equal value, and everyone has the right to be treated with respect! We are obliged to respond when cases of discriminatory attitudes and actions are detected. It is not least whether it is the police who discriminate. The Norwegian police have great confidence in the general population. It's because the police are essentially doing a very good job and meeting the audience in a respectful and equivalent way. We have reason to be proud of the level of Norwegian police officers and police service women. But we also know that trust in the police in some environments is less than desirable. We have already heard examples of this from this pulpit today. Centres against ethnic discrimination and the Organisation against Public Discrimination have documented cases of discrimination against minorities. Spokespersons for drug users also report cases of rough and critical behaviour on the part of the police. This must be effectively combated in-house in the establishment, inter alia, by means of: policy-making in the police and by consistently responding on a service basis and in other ways to those who act unacceptable. For the Christian People's Party, it is also important that the new Special Unit for Police Affairs treats reports by police officers in a reliable and independent manner. We also believe that it is necessary to put in place an improved system of public complaints against the police as soon as possible. When the Storting decides today that the police in operational service should bear a visible service number, it will be significantly easier for the public to identify an official on whom complaints may be made. If nothing else came out of this case, there is reason to be satisfied that the service number below becomes clearly visible on the uniform. Lack of logistical, conflicting explanations and a lack of willingness among policemen to testify against colleagues has in some cases resulted in justified complaints not being dealt with with with with the necessary seriousness. It has therefore been important for the Christian People's Party that the service number of police officers is borne visible by the individual. This increases legal certainty for the public and is a measure that is neither bureaucratic nor resource-intensive. In St. Report. No 46 encourages the Government to propose a trial project with the receipt and registration of some police meetings with the public. The cost of the pilot projects is 2,9 million. kr for operation and remuneration, and in addition for technical equipment. The government's proposals are forced by the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party. The Christian People's Party has been, and is still, against the introduction of a so-called'receiving system'. We are opposed to a system of receipts because we believe the system is resource-intensive and bureaucratic. We do not believe that the scheme will serve the purpose of improving the relationship between the police and certain groups in society. And we believe that a receipt scheme, as proposed in the Storing Communication, and as suggested by the minority in the setting, can easily be abused. I am very surprised that the Progress Party initially supported the introduction of a system of police receipts. The Progress Party is a party that traditionally argues for more resources for police operations and complains about resource scarcity in the department. But here we went for a system that would lead to less police in the streets and more police behind the PC. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get But the right one should be right. The party has taken the lead, and is now opposed to the introduction of a system of receipts in the police case. Honor them for it! In addition, I think the representative, Mr Ellingen, has just made a good point, in which he presented the views of the Progress Party. It was SV who put forward proposals on acceptance arrangements in Stortinget. The working party was suspended. But I hardly think this was particularly thoughtful, neither by SV nor by the Workers' Party. In the setting of St. meld. No 46, as we are dealing with today, both the Workers' Party and the SV go from their original proposal, and will introduce a «receiving arrangement light». They will put in place a system that has neither been investigated nor consulted. The purpose of the model, for which these batches are now considered, is quite different from the purpose of the original receipt scheme. There is at all little coherence between the original proposal and the proposal that the minority makes through the vote. The representative, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, expressed the original purpose of introducing a system of acceptance as follows on 19 June 2002: ‘This is about fundamental principles of legal certainty. It's about the possibility of investigating whether the police go specifically to specific groups on the basis of prejudices that you might have, which you don't necessarily have on purpose, or whether we can determine on the contrary that this doesn't happen. But it's important to get this in place, so we have the ability to verify it afterwards. That's what I think is great." The purpose of the now proposed scheme is in general to increase confidence in the police of the population. It is a completely different purpose, and testifies to a completely changed motivation on the part of the proposers. I allow myself to say: this is unprofessional and not the Storting worthy. The government parties and the Advance Party disagree with the Workers' Party and SV on what measures give us the best possible police force. There is also disagreement over what is acceptable in Stortinget. But, and most importantly, we agree that it must be worked continuously and in several ways to ensure the trust of the police in all parts and in all parts of the population. This is a challenge and an objective we need to work across the board to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e740	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e743	The representative Marthinsen showed a commendable commitment to the human rights in Vietnam in the case we dealt with before this. And he also started his post now with a prestigious commitment to human rights. The Christian People's Party is occupied with values. This government has also presented an action plan against racism and discrimination. And it says that effective action against racism and discrimination requires continuous, focused and long-term work. I very much agree with that. It also includes, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, the management of trust problems, the handling of complaints and the record-keeping of matters, training, recruitment and career development. This is something they're going to work with in the Ministry of Justice, it's said in the plan. I agree with all this. Then the ministry is proposing a trial project, which would have been the answer to all that is in the plan of the Government on Racism. So the majority of people in this room say, no, we're not going to have this trial project! So it's saying it's $2.9 million. kr. It does not seem to the representative of Kristiansen that 2.9 million. kr is a low price to know if we are engaged in discrimination in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e753	I am pleased that the representative Rui from the Workers' Party underlines the parallel views on human rights, the action plan and, above all, the values underlying what I have said earlier today. It is quite obvious that when you have a position anchored in such values and attitudes, you have a good foundation to be able to do something together in order to improve the conditions for all people. This also applies to what we are debating today, the relationship between the police and some minority groups. When a proposal for a pilot project is submitted, it does not come on the initiative of the department and political management. It comes as a result of the obligation to provide it. You might think you'd do this another way, without me having the opportunity to go into it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e762	I must be allowed to start by saying thank you for the fact that it has now been confirmed from the Chair of the Storting that the Progress Party has taken the lead. It's okay to have it in the Minutes, if not otherwise. The representative of the Christian People's Party was in on resources and talked about turning processes and other issues that are important in combating injustice in society, not least in relation to what the police are doing. The majority comment on which the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are united also states that it is important to emphasise the mind-building work. Since the Christian People's Party today is one of the government parties, I would like to challenge the representative Marthinsen if he has any concrete thoughts about what kind of attitude-building work should be given priority in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e769	I don't have a list that I can bring with me to the Great Britain Chair, about what kind of action I could imagine going in for. I think it's very important, as a starting point, to grasp what is the actual situation today. I could imagine that there is a very high level of trust in the police, but that within some areas, within some groups of people living here in the country, ethnic groups, there is a less positive attitude. Then we have to ask questions about why it's like this, and take this up and discuss it. It can be at ethics seminars at the Police College or in other contexts, after-school training, etc., not just as a teacher to the students, but between the groups that have this distrust, and the police themselves, to find ways to work that will increase confidence in the future and create mutual understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e774	It's parts of the majority position that I have problems understanding, and that I can't see as anything but an emergency argument. This applies in particular to what is on page 4: ‘The majority are very critical of the fact that the minority proposes to put in place a mechanism which has not been in any way consulted by the parties concerned, nor investigated in terms of resources and other practicalities.’ I find that strange, as the minority here have proposed a system of receipts which is less extensive than what had been presented by the department. It's not about having an A4 sheet, a form, where you have to record a lot of information, and then asked back to the police station and recorded the same information in a whole new system there. It's about a business card. I don't understand, even though I've spent some time trying it, why one looks at such a type of system as very resource-intensive, bureaucratic and therefore completely out of date.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e784	Clearly, you can discuss what is resource-intensive and what is not resource-intensive. Three million. kr is however money, and it might cost more than that. What is, however, the main point of departure, as I understood the representative of Thorkildsen, is that there was a kind of emergency argument that led to the majority voting. It's not. The reason for this is that that proposal, as I have interpreted it, and as I believe the majority parties have interpreted it, is actually based on a few lines in an article's proposal on this problem. One grasps a thought in the article and uses it as a suggestion. It's a plane tank that's made up of a proposal from the Stortinge pulpit. In our opinion, this is not a good basis for starting a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e791	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e794	Some of the parties on the Storting may be an unsteady master to deal with a minority government, and this case well illustrates it in many ways. First, the majority in Stortinget adopts a decision on 19 June 2002 asking the Government to submit a proposal for a system of acknowledgement. So the department does its job. They investigate the proposal and obtain both benefits and disadvantages, and end up proposing to the Stortinget a trial project on a system of receipt and registration in relation to the police. Not enough, they even take that provision and it wanted to be included in the Government's Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination. Then they come to the Storting, and then the Advance Party not only strikes the hand of the Government, but also the government's own parties, and turns the thumb down for the proposal the Government itself promotes. I have to say that when you read the setting, the matter gets a rather comical cut. The centre party can see both the advantages and disadvantages of the type of acceptance scheme proposed here. An advantage will undoubtedly be that a system of receipts can be discriminatory for police work against special groups, among other things. ethnic minorities. It is also possible that that type of scheme could improve the legal certainty of these groups and contribute to a clearer relationship between police and individuals in some cases. In this way, it also meets a requirement that several of the parties here are concerned about, namely the question of all the exercise of authority towards individuals in our society. It's important, not just in relation to the police, but the police may have a special role in this way. We also find it hard to see that this is going to be so very bureaucratic. It is perfectly possible to make it simple and reasonably straightforward. Now there are many who are proposing more bureaucratic things to limit the exercise of bureaucracy towards individuals. The Progress Party has even proposed in this house a ban on meetings for public enterprises, with all the work and bureaucracy it would have brought. A obvious disadvantage with a receipt system seems to be that the police might withdraw from the audience in cases where they should not withdraw from the audience. It is a disadvantage that one also has to include in the assessment of such a question. However, the centre batch has concluded that a test project should now be carried out in line with that proposed by the Ministry in order to gain experience in such a scheme. It could also be implemented in the manner in which the Department sketches, but preferably with simplifications, which some of the parties in the Committee have also addressed. I will be allowed to point out that such a test project could perhaps provide the basis for a more informed debate on this issue than what we have experienced so far today. I understand that this matter must have a special history. I can only understand that history has somehow also blinded the view of the parties, and thus destroyed the possibility of getting a wider settlement than what we are facing today. If that is the case, then it is a sin. I can't see that the proposal that is distributed in these places is anything different than what the Government has proposed to the Stortinget. The central party will therefore support the distributed proposal of the Workers' Party and SV. We believe that it should be up to the Government to take into account the simplifications that the minority makes in its comments. Furthermore, the Centre Party considers that the issue of a permanent system of visible service numbers is also a positive and important measure, which may reduce the risk of unnecessary and unjustified control of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e813	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e816	Nothing is more wrong than believing that the receipt mechanism will be the difference as to whether we have legal certainty in Norway or whether we do not have legal certainty in Norway. One of the main objectives of the police reform was to combat everyday crime; it was to create security in everyday life for all the people who go out in streets and squares and in the open room. It was also to have a visible and operational police force in Norway. I think the receipt system is an inappropriate and bureaucratic solution to a problem that is oversized by the opposition. It only creates more paperwork for the police. It is not as simple as it has been said from this pulpit that this does not create bureaucracy. The result of this is in fact contrary to what the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has said in this Chamber. She wanted more police in the streets and no more police behind the desks. Isn't it the case when the Center Party is now in favour of this, that Marit Arnstad has a opposite view of what her party trap Meltveit Kleppa has on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e823	The representative Dybevig seemed very bastant as to what a receipt scheme would be or would not be. The centre party sees, as I said in my post, both the advantages and the disadvantages of that type of scheme, and that is precisely one of the reasons why we believe that the scheme should be tested, as the department has also proposed in its communication to the Stortinget. When it comes to whether this will lead to more bureaucracy or more police behind the desk, it is generally a very interesting issue. But frankly, if the Right is concerned that there will be more police officers behind the desk instead of out in the streets, I think one should go through and evaluate the whole reform that you're in with the police and all-man's seat, instead of hanging out in this kind of smaller project, after all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e830	The representative Arnstad expresses surprise at the fact that the government parties do not support the Government's proposals. To that end, the Government's proposal is the result of a decision taken by a majority in the Grand Duchy, where the government parties were not present. When this is presented, we are still against the system that we voted against when it was a majority of the opposition parties for on the Stortinget. Does the representative Arnstad think that it really is that once a government has been instructed by a majority – against the will of the government parties – to promote a proposal, are the parties to the government have to change their point of view and stand in favour of something that is actually opposed? Is that how the Center Party operates politics?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e836	Yes, I am very surprised every time the government parties do not support their own government, I must say. It is one of the most fundamental principles in the big business that a government party supports its own government. I am fully aware that this was a decision that the government parties did not support. In this respect, it is clear that the attitude of the Progress Party – or lack of attitude – in this case is perhaps what is most appropriate for most amazement. But at the same time, I must say that I assume that a government when it makes a proposal for the Stortinge stands behind the proposal it is making. I expect that a government does not promote proposals for the Stortinget that it does not mean anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e843	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e846	Norway has increasingly become a multicultural society. This is a good thing, but also presents a number of challenges. Unfortunately, we have many unfortunate examples of people with different skin color and ethnic background being suspicious, or that we others are treating them in a different and discriminatory way, not because of what they have done, but only because of their different background or skin color. The police represent the apparatus of power of society. As the chief chief of police, it is essential for me to stress that the police, above anyone else, must ensure that all citizens are treated equally and with the respect that every citizen is entitled to, regardless of background or condition, and whether an asylum seeker has arrived a few hours ago or has a normal Norwegian background. The Norwegian police have great confidence in the population. That's the way it should be. However, it is essential that this trust is also shared by persons with a minority background. The police themselves have also stated that the agency has challenges and tasks to solve in relation to ethnic minorities. Racism must be combated in many ways. Both legislative measures and changes in attitudes are central here. For example, important legislative measures include: have been able to strengthen Section 135a of the Criminal Code to include symbols, as decided by the Stortinget. I would also like to point out that the Government is committed to bringing the Equality Ombudsman, the Equality Centre and the Centres against ethnic discrimination together in a new, joint body, such as: to enforce new laws against ethnic discrimination. The law will be promoted during the year. The aim is to ensure that the new body – the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman – is operational from January 2006. The majority of the Committee refers to the importance of awareness-raising work in the police department, the employer’s responsibility in this context and the importance of emphasising principles of equal treatment and respect for people with different cultures and backgrounds in police training. The Police Directorate is constantly working on these questions. Following the Government Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination, the Directorate of Police was tasked with following up a number of points. [[2002-2006]] Among other things, there is work on reviewing and updating training in the field. This applies both to basic training at Police College and to further training conducted centrally and locally in the police districts. The Police Directorate developed in 2002 general guidelines for staff policy in the Ethics Department, setting out ethical principles for the provision of the service. It focuses on, among others: to be treated with respect, regardless of sex, age, sexual orientation, religious affiliation, etc. The majority of the Committee also refers to Innst. O. No 15 for 2003-2004, where the Committee asks the Government to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for a model for complaints against police officers. Follow-up is under way in the Ministry of Justice. I believe that the long-term work put forward in the Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination is the right way to go in order to improve the relationship between police and ethnic minorities. In addition, it will be important to provide information and knowledge on this relationship through research, in line with the Government's proposals and the decision of the Justice Committee. The system of visible service numbers on police uniforms, combined with practical arrangements when the police act civilly, will also, in my opinion, contribute to creating greater security and justice in the relationship between the population and the police. I also have great expectations for the special unit for police matters, to which the Stortinget has agreed, and I will come back to Stortinget with proposals for rules on how to deal with complaints against police officers and women. Visible service numbers and better rules for complaints by citizens about the possible critical behaviour of the police will be important measures for equal treatment of all citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e865	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e868	Since there was a majority in Stortinget, all except the government parties, who proposed a system of receipts in June 2002, one would believe that the Dørum Council had reluctantly proposed a trial project. In the Government's Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination, one can read that it is one of the measures that the Government believes are important to do a better job towards the minority population we have in Norway today. We also get recommendations from the rest of the world about the same thing, for example. in the recent ECRI report to Norway, that we should establish a system in which we monitor and monitor police behaviour against the minority population. The UN has also recommended the same thing. I know that Dørum, who is an excellent rhetoricist, will never admit that he disagrees with the government parties in Stortinget, but I would like to challenge Doorum to say a little about what measures he wants to take to improve our trust between our minority people and the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e875	First card for the proceedings. Everyone knows that if a government does not follow decisions in the Stortinget, they will get a lot of comments, for example. on the Control and Constitutional Committee. It's the game rules. What was the situation in the summer of 2002 was that the government said it would assess a receipt scheme. We didn't get that chance. On the contrary, we got a very clear marshall with two widely different premises – one set of premises presented fairly and properly by the Workers' Party and SV and another set of premises presented by the Progress Party. However, the progress party made sure that Storting had a chance to deal with it again, saying that the matter should be brought back. Then we have to conscientiously try to make the best of the assignment we've been given. We have. What is the situation in Stortinget today is that if I now see the open attitude that the Workers' Party and SV have also shown by moving and working with the measure, I feel that one is quite close to another in trying to get practical arrangements that work against discrimination. Even I have a considerable belief in what is happening systematically through the work of the Police Directorate, the work of the police officers, through what is happening at the Police College, through proposals for complaints that the Stortinge will receive, and visible service number. I think this will have an effect, and I've met the police in so many ways that I have faith in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e884	We have a Minister of Justice who is sometimes extremely offensive, and that is positive. That is what we are looking at through access to resources, human resources and equipment. The size is likely to conclude today that a visible service number system is now to be introduced. There's also a whole committee that's been able to figure out. Since the Minister of Justice has also been Minister of Justice in the past, I thought I should ask if this has been assessed in the past. Since there has obviously been such a concerted positive attitude towards the proposal today, what is the reason why there has not been a proposal to this effect in the past, if it could have been involved and contributed at an earlier date?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e891	A number of measures have been outlined in the Government Action Plan against Racism and the Follow-up of the Police Directorate. It is in the action plan that we look at what can have a practical effect. So, in the course of the debate that has been, the police have had a study trip to England and found that what they had was fundamentally different from what you might have thought you would get in Norway. So there's been an awareness of how to find practical action. I count that as an open, political process, with contributions from many. I note that the contribution is from a unanimous judiciary on this point. I think that's very good. I have the opinion that I do not want to be rhetorical about the fact that representatives in a committee go in and work on a question, even though they could initially think otherwise. I am aware that it may be tempting, but as a government council, I am open for doing so. I am open to the Committee being unanimous on the issue of service numbers and appropriate identity for civil personnel. I believe that, along with other important measures that I mentioned in my previous reply, it will provide a strengthened basis for the great trust the police have, and that it will continue in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e898	I believe that trust in the police is absolutely necessary in a democratic society, and also that it will provide a more effective police force. There is some background for us to promote this proposal on the receipt system. I would like to go a little further and ask the Minister of Justice how he assesses some of the measures such as: Liv Finstad mentioned to us when we met with her. She said that it is necessary to look at whether newly-trained police personnel should start their careers in the public services, because this is exactly where the meetings with the audience take place, and there may be quite tough meetings. She said it's important for us now to get an explanatory police, who are more responsive to the public's need for information. She mentioned practical conflict management and the report on treatment at the Police College, and she said that there is a need for a research project to look into how minorities reporting cases to the police are treated. Are these matters that the Minister of Justice might expect to go further to try to get a more reliable and effective police in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e905	Without concluding from the pulpit, I am open to any proposal that is the result of reflection, research and reflection. I know that Professor Liv Finstad has followed the police in practical work and thus received a glimpse that I know has gained deep respect and recognition in the police. Of course I will listen to the proposal. I still have a general comment. The fact that the police go out in the public service is very important in many ways, because it means that people with high school education get to test themselves on the practical challenges of life quite early. It's almost so that the police are our most 24-hour social services, in the sense that the police get the dilemmas right into the body and have to solve them. But if that's what the representative says, that you can get a better sound bottom and prepare here, it's of course a reasoning I'm open to. I think it's been some of the force of the police that they're going out and getting to know the practical life, and I've met the police who have to do it with e.g. The challenges on the Plate. I have deep respect for the way they've gradually learned how to handle things.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e914	The replication shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e918	Today, the majority has a golden opportunity to launch a project that can strengthen trust between the police and the minority population. We have a golden opportunity to launch a project that can clean up the police for possible accusations of discrimination against different minority groups in Norway. But the government parties and the Progress Party cover themselves behind formalistic excuses for massive bureaucracy and large cost increases in order not to follow up the Government's action plan against racism. Why are these parties so afraid to launch a trial project with police receipts? Are they afraid of what the outcome might be, or is the Progress Party perhaps not interested in opening up any elements of discrimination in the police? The majority of the Committee argues that this scheme will be expensive and bureaucratic. How can they be so sloppy about this before the system has been tested? Their own government believes that only a pilot project will be able to identify economic and administrative consequences. The majority also argue with experience from England, where they believe that the reception system has made a greater distance between police and the public. There are shared views as to whether the English report can be read in that way. Indeed, the government argues that it is only through a testing scheme that we can find answers as to whether this might be the case in Norway. When it comes to the question of whether this becomes expensive and bureaucratic, it is not at all linked to the fact that the police in retrospect have to record the inspection and visitation. But this part has, of course, been accepted by the majority by the National Attorney General, inculcating the criminal procedural obligation to write a report for the individual search. The Working Party and SV support the Government's proposal that this should be a trial project. We agree that there has to be an external evaluation before it becomes a permanent scheme. What's so dangerous about trying this out? Suffering if we do not get a majority in favour of the trial procedure with a police receipt, we have made some progress through this initiative from the Workers' Party and the SV. First, the national lawyer will intensify Section 199, second paragraph of the Criminal Procedure Act, which requires a report to be written every time someone has been searched. Secondly, there is now a majority in favour of launching a research project to investigate qualitative and quantitatively the relationship between police and ethnic minorities. Thirdly, there will be a majority for the police to have a visible service number on the police uniform. The aim of the proposal for a system of acknowledgement is to improve relations between the police and the public and, in particular, to strengthen police confidence in the minority population. The police believe they have little control. However, many minority groups claim that they are constantly being controlled, apparently only because of skin color. This is devastating for the dialogue needed between the police and the public in order to combat and prevent crime. Moreover, in a legal state, it is important that there is a trust between the police and the population. The Labour Party believes that a system of receipts can help to create the necessary trust between the police and the minority population, because a system of receipts can help the police to become more focused in their controls, and that people are more aware of why the police are carrying out the controls. A similar system in England has resulted in a decrease in the number of checks but an increase in the number of hits. We had the same experience when we had a review of the customs tariff in Norway: the number of checks went down, and the percentage hit went up. I therefore think it is nice that the majority and the police organisations do not see that a system of receipts will also strengthen the basis for police work. In its latest report on Norway, the Council of Europe Commission on Racism and Intolerance recommends the introduction of a system for monitoring the frequency of police checks on individuals. The United Nations does the same thing. The Labour Party understands the need for police to carry out visits and checks in order to combat crime. The police, however, lose support from many, including minority groups, when the controls are subjected to burdensome, harassment and discrimination. Therefore, in the view of the Workers' Party, a system of acknowledgement will make the fight against crime more effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e949	Today’s debate clearly shows that policies based on the approach to entry are not worthy of the Storting. On 19 June 2002, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to submit proposals for a system of receipts. The parties to the Government voted against. The government has done its job, promoted the case, after prior consultation, and today Stortinget decides to scrape the scheme, before it is even tried out. And that's good. The whole proposal on police receipts cheeses of mistrust of the Norwegian police, an establishment that otherwise scores the highest of all professional groups in terms of confidence in the population. The background to the proposal is well-intentioned; we should not have a police officer who discriminates on grounds of ethnicity. I believe that there is no factual basis for such a claim on a general basis. And in cases where this should be a problem, it is primarily a management responsibility for the police to clean up. As an example, I have been told that in the last six years fewer than five complaints of police discrimination have been lodged at the Greenland Police Station. Now it's going to be researched on this, and then we'll see if the minority population has so much less confidence in the police than the general population. As a basis for this whole case, there is a fundamental distrust between the minority population in Norway and the police. No one can prove it. There is agreement to take a few steps, including: to provide police officers with service numbers so that those who might have something to complain about may be able to record the number. Of course, we also have confidence that the work of the Police College on training related to attitudes, ethnic background and culture will be continued and strengthened. When we in the Right have chosen to go against the system, and not winged, but stuck all the time, the main reason is that we have basic trust in the Norwegian police, a trust that the people also have. Secondly, no country has successfully implemented such a system. The much-mentioned scheme in England, on which the proposal was based, has not produced particularly good results. On the contrary, it is pointed out that such arrangements create a greater distance between police and the public. Thirdly, there is a completely different and less resource-intensive approach that needs to be taken to ensure that the police treat people in a non-discriminatory manner. Visible service numbers and awareness-raising work are among these measures. Early in police training, the principles of equal treatment and respect for people with different cultures and backgrounds are emphasised. Fourthly, the police have a situation of budgetary pressure. It is therefore quite wrong, in our opinion, to press on politically motivated arrangements that one does not know in any way about will have any effect. It's argued here that it's stupid that we're going against this, because it would be nice to try it out. Yeah, there's a lot of things you could try out in society, but it's taking time, it's costing resources. When one does not even know that there is a basis for saying that such a proposal needs to be implemented, it is not good policy, in my opinion, to spend public money on such projects. The working party and SV originally had a more comprehensive proposal. It has now ended with the distribution of business cards, a proposal that has not been explored, but which is described in some lines in a report by a researcher who has studied the scheme in England. This is too bad a procedure. I think it is alarming that we should be allowed to lower the debate to a low level, when those behind the proposal do not at all have the basis for the claims they make. It is revealing and provocative, in my view, when the Workers' Party and the SV in their last remark are sad and tired of testing a system of receipts, as this would give the members of the Judicial Committee ‘beneficial and valuable input’. So we're going to have to do a problem with the police that they don't want to do, in order to make the Workers' Party and SV useful recordings. Finally, I would like to express my great satisfaction at the fact that the Progress Party ended up on the right side of this case. The representative of Ellingsen is to have great credit for this, while the Progress Party of course deserves criticism for allowing it to tear itself away from SV's hasty proposals and helped the Police Directorate and the Ministry of Justice to spend time, forces and crowns investigating something for which there has probably never been a real majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e977	Will a police receipt scheme strengthen the legal certainty of individual citizens in meeting with the police? Will it prevent and delay the police in carrying out satisfactory controls in the open room? I believe that a system of receipts will be essentially demeaning and bureaucratic and a little-needed tool to measure the legal certainty of a society. Legal security is not about getting a receipt in contact with the police, but about how the police choose to meet the public. Legal certainty is not measured by meters or by how many receipts a person has received in a certain period of time. The police have, among other things: as its prime task to combat crime. Many people feel insecurity in their everyday lives – not just on weekends and at nighttime, but actually on a bright day in the middle of the human mule in the open room. SV and the Workers' Party have used a few out-of-date examples of why it is necessary for the police to provide a receipt to visited persons, with the type of control, date of control, time, place and service number. It may seem extraordinarily difficult that people get confiscated cameras by the police because they have photographed a visit, that a person with a foreign appearance claims to have been stopped 17 times by the police because he had an expensive bike. Is the solution to introduce a system of receipts that would inhibit police in hectic situations with many visits? Legal certainty for the public is not enhanced by the fact that police work is hampered by bureaucratic practices. Is it possible, under certain circumstances, that some people out there would be collecting receipts and then confronting the police with an unreasonable number of visits? Who is to ensure the legal certainty of police officers if this occurs? The police do not reject the fact that there are challenges in the relationship between minorities and the police, but recommend that other measures should be given priority over the reception system. There have been evaluations of similar receipt schemes in the United Kingdom. There, the audience gained less trust, and no more, as the SV and the Workers' Party apparently claim, to the police after the receipt scheme was introduced. The explanation is that the scheme includes, inter alia: took a lot of time, which caused the police to withdraw from public contact. Public confidence in the police is not increased by formalising the contact between the public and the police, it turned out. Only improved attitudes and professional competence, and not in the event of a visitation process, will strengthen privacy and legal certainty. The fact that SV in its time characterised the receipt scheme as a major political victory is no surprise. During Odelstingen's treatment of Ot.prp. No 58 for 2001-2002 on changes in criminal law and police law, measures against the illicit use of weapons and knives, on 12 June 2002, the Progress Party considered that a system of acknowledgement was unnecessary bureaucratic and cumbersome for the police. In voting in Stortinget a week later, the Progress Party was very surprising to those present in the Chamber, and it was after that the Progress Party on 12 June felt that the rules on visitation were too defensive. I quote Jan Arild Ellingsen: ‘We find it strange that visits should take place primarily in places where criminal offences usually occur’. – i.e. from a wish for extended visitation one week to a bureaucratic receipt system the next week. Understand the one who can. At the same meeting, the majority of the police granted extended access to the visit of vehicles and persons and extended investigation methods to detect backers and organised crime, and the criminal framework was raised from six to ten years in aggravating circumstances for the possession or removal of knives and firearms. That the police were given extended opportunities to visit after weapons, and that the punishment for carrying knives and gripping knives during fighting was increased, gave and gives the public better protection against the criminals. Police have previously been without the necessary powers to search both persons and cars in public places for the purpose of averting, among other things. use of knife and firearms. The police have now been given the opportunity not only to search people, but in fact also to take care of people in prison if necessary. This is a necessity because of the unprovoked violence and the ever lower thresholds that some now have for using knives and weapons in battle. Extended powers for police and enhanced criminal responses have given criminals a clear and unambiguous indication of how the tolerance limit goes. There shall be zero tolerance for the use and storage of knives and firearms in the public space, both on the body and placed easily accessible in cars. The importance of having an effective and fast-acting police force makes decision-making easier. In many situations, especially at night and on weekends, when searches and infringements often take place, it will be impractical for the police to have circumstantial formal procedures to search persons and vehicles. In fact, a system of receipts will be directly destructive to effective police work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e1001	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e1004	I would like to take the same starting point as the Council of State made in its statement, namely that the individual's trust in the police is crucial, and that this must apply as far as possible to everyone. This means, in particular, that people who, for different reasons, for example: that they have a minority background, they may appear to be particularly vulnerable. There has been a lot of talk about trust in the police in this matter. I want to say something I like to say in that context. It is that for my own part I have a basic trust in Norwegian police. I think it is vital to be able to maintain that trust. Police are the foremost power agency in society and have the clearest means of dealing with individuals. Because it's essential to maintain that trust, I'm in that situation that I have a constantly critical attitude toward the police in many ways. And I would like to stress that the police are constantly obliged to show themselves worthy of the trust that is definitely at the bottom. It is also important in this context to stress that general trust cannot, in fact, be an argument for a blind trust in the individual case. There is a difference in this respect between general trust and the correct handling of the individual case. In this way, I must admit that I think that the representatives of Helleland and Dybevig, in their argument, lead to a little too much overall confidence as proof that there is also confidence from minority groups. The issues we're facing may be based on two slightly different relationships – insofar as this is a problem, which I think we should assume is to some extent. One is the more conscious, the way someone actually acts towards individuals, where there is skin color, etc. which is the justification, or something at an almost equivalent level. The other thing, and what might be more dangerous, is the fact that you can't consciously get in the situation that you're not paying enough attention. This has to be solved in a slightly different way. The left is pleased with the work that is continuously being carried out by the police and the department. For my part, I would like to say that I hardly believe any other state council could have more confidence from my side in such work than the sitting state council. I will end by saying that the matter has helped to sharpen us all. The most concrete action, namely the visible police, has the wholehearted support of the Left – it was also an initiative taken by the parliamentary leader Trine Skei Grande in an interview in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e1017	There were some challenges along the way that made me feel the need to take the word again. Not least from the representative Gjul, it was claimed that it might not be so important for the Progress Party that there were different elements – I think the word was used – in the police. I don't know if it's allowed to say it from Storting's pulpit, but at my discretion a cellar is a cellar independent of uniform, skin color, ethnicity, religion, etc., etc. It is the characteristics of the person that are essential. I want to strongly distance myself from, and of course, the Progress Party does not accept, policemen who go far beyond the line, or cross the line in general. It's unacceptable, and of course it's going to have to be put down hard. So there I hope that the representative Gjul also got what I said in my main post, that for us it is important that we have a clean-up on it, not least on the basis of the rights and expectations of society in relation to the police. So to the representative of Greece, who was involved in the resource situation, investigations and stuff and access to resources. And when the representative of Greece as committee leader is concerned about the resource situation of the police, I have to say that there are many of us who are. The representative of Greece is probably aware of this, but in the autumn of 2001 and 2002, we actually strengthened the police through a budgetary settlement with the Progress Party. This year’s situation shows something quite different, with another partner. So things change. But it's about politics. So, finally, to the representative Dybevig, whom I usually consider to be a reasonable intelligent gentleman – there are exceptions in relation to everything. When the representative goes up and I'm not going to say rales, but has a problem understanding what the Progress Party has done, I'm afraid I have to reread what is in St.meld. No 46 for 2002–2003, which is part of the government’s promotion. It says about the Progress Party that the Progress Party "will come back to concrete consideration when the proposals are promoted". So again – I have to be allowed to clarify it – we have not said yes to a receipt system. We have agreed to a proposal to look at the issues involved. And I assume that the representative Dybevig, with his previous political experience and other, should have such reading skills that he got the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e1028	In response to the representative's question, the President will confirm that in this case he has nothing to object to the use of words, as long as the aforementioned cellars are not carried on the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e1031	At the end of the debate, I would like to say that I also believe that the hard-working police force we have in Norway is predominantly good with the people they meet, and that they relate to the Norwegian law on legal security and human rights. I would have stressed that quite towards the end of saying that. And they're pretty much worthy of trust. But the police have asked, and received, ever-new methods and powers, and then I think it is very strange that the police don't want the police to welcome other new ways and attempts to figure out how to solve their problems. I thought in my simplicity that trust in all environments in Norway was important to the police. I also thought that the police would be well served to get rid of the suspicion of racism that some environments point out that they have for the Norwegian police. And finally, I have to say that I am amazed that a state like the Norwegian police, which is so concerned about getting the truth, is not concerned about getting an attempt that could show whether one or the other claim is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e1038	I just want to say a few words at the end. I believe that the representative of Hove had a very good record in this regard with confidence – except at the very end, where he allowed himself to mention that the representative of Skei Grande should have the credit for this with a visible service number. So that's not the case. It was a rudeness from her side. It seems to me that it is important not to make proposals about the receipt system as a sign of a fundamental mistrust of the police action. So it's completely wrong. But what we have to have is humility in view of the fact that certain groups of the population do not have the necessary confidence in the work of the police, and that they feel that they are being controlled more frequently than others. We also know from surveys that in other parts of the public sector, the minority population encounters some prejudices with which the rest of the population is not met. This is research that we've had over a long time. It's also just seagoing and looking for your own prejudices, so we know that it's the case that people who somehow deviate from normal, which is usually the great white majority, are often treated differently from the rest. That is why we see it on the SV side as very important to increase the proportion of people from the minority population in the police action. It's very important in the future. And as women's politicians who have worked a lot with women's positions both in the police and in other parts of the population who have a strong human dominance, I would also warn against putting the groups that are at risk, who are in a minority, for why, for example, they are. not get up and out, and meet them with scepticism when they say they feel discriminated against. For example, the power investigation has: show that the large, male and white majority perceive that it is not a question of discrimination when women do not have the same opportunities to show what they are doing, as men do, while women largely perceive that this is a matter of discrimination, either directly or indirectly. I have had discussions also in the police case with regard to the position of women, where I have warned against assigning the minority population, in this case the women, the responsibility for why they do not achieve the same results within the union as men do, for example. position and rise. I believe that the attitude expressed by Mr Hove in this House was exemplary in taking seriously the fact that you do not have to be distrustful of the whole affair, but you have to realize that there are some positions there, such as those of us, which we actually have to fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e1049	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e1057	The size is ready to go to voting. In Case No. 1 there is no votering theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-12.ana.ud2050e1066	During the debate, Mr Thorkildsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber and reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the launch of a pilot project with a two police district receipt/registration system.’
