ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e50	The President will propose that Mr Odelstinget deal with the supplementary agenda after the ordinary agenda. - There are no objections to this proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e63	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 646]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e78	Int. O. No 98, which deals with changes in tax law, and which we have now dealt with in parallel with the revised national budget, there are few changes. There is generally a unanimous setting on most points. There are also largely adjustments made in this case, but I just want to briefly make some comments on two issues. First, amendments to the VAT Act. This concerns the purchase of services from Svalbard and Jan Mayen, which we, by an incubator, did not correct properly the last time, so that we were in the process of having an unfortunate distortion of competition, among other things. by certain telecommunications companies wanting to establish themselves on Svalbard and Jan Mayen in order to avoid VAT. Now we're going to fix this. Furthermore, there is an important point in this setting that relates to the agricultural deduction. It is a proposal that income from the production of biomass for energy purposes may be included in agricultural incomes and thus provide the basis for calculating agricultural deductions. The agricultural deduction shall be mainly directly linked to agricultural production. Deductions on the basis of purely capital income are not reasonable. There is, in essence, a principle deviation made by the majority here by proposing that the production of biomass for energy purposes can now be included in the basis of the agricultural deduction. This is a deviation from the principles we have had in this area in the past. The Workers' Party strongly doubts the Government's support for this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e91	The attitude does not contain many major conflict areas seen by the Progress Party, but there are some points where we disagree with the Government and the majority. We believe it would be completely unreasonable to cut off the possibility of deducting the VAT on goods cars to be used in taxable activities, on the grounds that there are people who abuse the system. If the government believes that the system is being abused, the government should, in our view, present proposals that affect the abuse. We do not support a proposal that affects all those who have a legitimate need for this type of vehicle. The Party will also oppose the proposal to include revenues from the production of biofuels in the basis of the agricultural deduction. The Progress Party has been critical of the introduction of the deduction and cannot see that the Government is able to make visible the need for an extension, as proposed. Medical Innovation The Rikshospitalet is an enterprise that allocates research funds to various research projects. The company has no acquisitions for its purposes and any profits shall benefit from future research. The transformation into a limited liability company does not imply a change in reality in the activities of the former State enterprise but is made because the form of a limited liability company is more known internationally than the form of a state enterprise and therefore makes it easier to deal with foreign donors of research funds. The proposed tax obligation may target funds for research, and would deprive donors of incentives to contribute funds to research. The Progress Party therefore believes that the proposed amendment to the tax law is unfortunate and will go against the proposal. The Executive Party considers that the Ministry should find an adaptation solution to Article 61 of the EEA Agreement or otherwise compensate for the reduction in funds for research that the legislative amendment will lead to. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e106	The representative Per Erik Monsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e109	I should also mention only a suggestion that SV and the Central Party have in the setting. It is a proposal to abolish tax exemptions for employers’ coverage of treatment costs and treatment insurance prescribed for annual proceeds of 100 million. NOK applied, 80 million. kr booked, in the current year. There has been good reason to make that proposal earlier, and SV has done so. There is even better reason to present this proposal now, after we have adopted the new patient law. Health Minister Dagfinn Højbrätten said that in a NRK debate in January this year the patient union was in complete agreement, which indicated that private health insurance with the new patient rights law would be superfluous. Bent Höie from the government party Right and the leader of the social fraction of the government party have also said the same thing to Stavanger Aftenblad. He says that private health insurance becomes superfluous when the new stronger law on patient rights comes into force. In addition to the fact that one has that system of patient rights laws, one also has the purchase of treatment from the Swedish National Anti-Fraud Office. In a letter to the Labour Party in May 2002, the Minister of Finance wrote that the scheme which allows the National Agency to purchase healthcare services for the treatment of patients "will be able to treat significantly the same persons who would be involved in treatment insurance". Two very good arrangements are already in place. There's no reason to throw away 100 million. kr a year on tax bills on something that both the Government, SV and the Center Party think is completely unnecessary. With that, I take up the proposal that SV and the Central Party have advanced in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e122	The representative of Heidi Grande Røys has taken up the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 647]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e139	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the political groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e150	The law on land ownership has been dealt with several times in Stortinget in recent years, last spring 2003. A total justice bath in the Innst. S. No 102 for 2003-2004 The Government of "offering to the Storting different alternatives to legislation which entitles the redemption of fast rooms for housing and leisure purposes". The Government has followed up this Decision in Ot.prp. No 41 for 2003-2004 treated at Odelstinget today. There has been considerable concern about the Santa Claus Institute in recent years. This concern is due to the fact that several fasteners, in relation to the so-called so-called land value clause, received a strong adjustment of the fastening charge after the price regulation was lifted on 1 January 2002. It is important for me and for the Christian People's Party to point out that today's Santa Claus Act § 11 limits the increase in fees that can be levied on the basis of Section 15 of the Act. It is not possible to charge a fastening charge that is unreasonable in relation to what is usually paid in the area when a new fastening charge is levied under similar conditions. But it is also important for us to convey a true picture of the large majority of parties. Most contracts contain tax regulation agreements according to changes in monetary value. 70 pst. of those who land for housing purposes have an annual fixation fee of less than NOK 3000. The same thing applies to over 75 pst. by those who attach land to recreational dwellings. This shows that an amendment to Section 15 of the Landfill Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2002, has not been made unreasonable by the majority of the parties. In addition, Section 15 of the Law on Mortgage Fees has allowed several landowners to increase the return on properties that for decades have given lower returns than agreed on due to price-fixing charges. However, the intention of predictability, alignment, link and conflict prevention suggests, in the view of the Government Parties, that the fixed fee for the future should follow the evolution of the monetary value. But we will, a little bit simplisticly, allow one upgrading in line with the current law and fastening agreement before the new rules on future expenditure limitation break down. It is also a consequence of our proposal that today's land use should be taken into account when fixing a land-use charge, not the estimated rate of use of the land. This will make the situation easier for those who attach larger plots. The Workers' Party and SV agree with the government parties that the land lease should be regulated for the future after changes in the monetary value, but they will not allow for once. The Progress Party, on its part, does not want any changes to the Landfill Act § 15, but asks the Government to consider alternative measures that can remedy the situation of those who have had financial difficulties as a result of an increase in the fastage charge. As a rule, those who land for a dwelling or cabin will be closely related to the property. The removal of land for housing and leisure houses means a permanent or very long-term re-disposal of the land. For example, a 99-year-old party is celebrated. very common. Such fastening means, in reality, that the owner’s rights over the land on the way have been reduced to a right to a sustainable return in the form of a fastening charge. The Government Parties, the Workers' Party and the SV therefore agree that, as a general rule, the right to redemption should be granted to those who land land for housing and leisure. On 21 January last year a press release was sent on behalf of the representative Kijkestad from the Progress Party, the representative Dybevig from the Right and myself. It says that the government parties and the Advance Party have "agreed today to extend the right to the redemption of the solemnity". The progress party has changed its position and is today anti-resolution for land anchors. The Government Parties consider that it is necessary to grant certain derogations from a general right to the redemption of land attached to a dwelling or holiday home. Several farms have laid land away to secure future entrepreneurial incomes. It is desirable, in our opinion, to maintain land fasts as an important income base in the agricultural industry. The scheme meets the need for an annual flow of income to the property, even after a generation change. This is in several cases a prerequisite for maintaining the dwelling on the farm. Therefore, the Government Parties consider that an exemption from the redemption right should apply to land that is attached away to leisure homes where the land belongs to an agricultural property and the fixed income is at least 10 pst. the entrepreneurial income required for the year of redemption. We also believe that there should be exceptions to the right to redemption where the ceremony is in a rural public opinion. The party currently opposed to the rights of redemption for fasteners will not support any of the proposed exemptions from the exercise of the right of redemption. I allow myself to point out that the views of the Progress Party on this matter are lacking in internal coherence. It's simply illogical. SV supports the exception in the case of rural public opinion but is against the so-called agricultural derogation. The working party is opposed to any exceptions to the right to redemption. However, with the exception of the Progress Party, the Committee considers that no right of redemption should be granted for the country’s unattracted land in Finnmark now. The question of the right of attachment to redemption in Finnmark should be considered in conjunction with the other legislation on land management and natural resources in the county and should therefore be addressed in the context of Ot.prp. No 53 for 2002-2003, which deals with proposals for Finnish Law. The right to redemption is of little importance if it is not followed by rules on pricing that are easy to understand and practice. Government lots have given considerable attention to the comprehensible nature of the redemption rules. They shall be neither contentious nor procedural. Moreover, it has been important for us to find a reasonable level of remuneration by redemption. It has also been an important condition that the rules for setting redemption amounts are within the limits set by the Constitution. If the parties so agree, a fixed land may be redeemed at the suggestion of the Government Parties up to 30 times the annual fixed fee. In most cases, a fastener with this model will be replaced by at least the restated value of the raw space at the time of the fixation, and in many cases more than that. If the parties do not agree that the land should be redeemed after a 30-fold adjustment of the femur, each party may require that the redemption price be determined in accordance with a discretionary rule, the so-called 40 pst. rule. We're suggesting that the raw-space value be taken as the starting point at the time of redemption. From the plot value, the value of investments made by fasteners is deducted. The redemption price is then set to 40 pst. of the remainder. In the event of an incursion, the government parties do not reflect the proposal for the Santa Claus Act § 37, as described in the cancellation, in full what I have now said about pricing according to the discretionary rule. I refer to the distributed corrected proposal for Section 37 and recommend Odelstinget to vote for this as well as for the government party's proposal, which is the setting. The proposal proposes a rule for a minimum redemption sum of NOK 50000. This provision is now proposed to be removed as a result of proposing a judgement. The minimum sum was intended to provide a guarantee of safety for landowners who have fixed away land at very low prices. However, the judgement-based rule will fulfil that objective. I would also point out that in some cases the $50,000 rule would give a redemption price above market value. By replacing the minimum sum rule with a discretionary rule, consideration will be given to the attachment of plots in areas with low plot values. If the parties do not agree on the redemption price resulting from the rules that I have now reviewed, they may get a valuer or others they trust to indicate the price. However, if they do not agree on a simple non-judicial method of dispute resolution, the price shall be determined by the intermediary. This is a simple and not least reasonable way to determine the price. From some environments it has been claimed that the proposals in the proposition are contrary to the Constitution § 105. A large majority of the committee - all with the exception of the Progress Party - believes that the proposals as they are drafted in the proposal, and as they emerge from the suspension with the corrected proposal of Section 37 of the Landfill Act, are fully in line with the Basic Law. The legislative amendments proposed by the government parties to the Odelstinget today relate to the settlement by redemption of land in a long-term contractual relationship between a home owner and a landowner. The proposal concerns rules for the winding-up of an established relationship between the parties where the emphasis on social conditions and the desire for practical legislation are strongly applicable. It follows from the Basic Law § 105 that, in the event of the compulsory surrender of property, full compensation must be provided for the value of the ownership conferred. The Constitution § 105 has a hard core that the legislator cannot intervene in, but in addition to this core, Stortinget has a number of freedom to specify and regulate how to measure damages. The majority of the Committee has carefully assessed the overriding grounds for protection which lie behind the Constitution § 105, and considers that the legislative proposals currently being promoted from the governmental parties are within the scope of the freedom of the legislator under the Constitution § 105. Those who do not have a financial opportunity to redeem the land under new Law on Landing Section 37 will be guaranteed a permanent right of disposal over the land. The majority of the Committee considers that the right to extend the fastening contract should be granted under the same conditions as that under which the fastening contract is instructed. The Committee has also assessed the right of extension up to the Constitution. Our assessments are the same here as those I've explained before. Finally, I must admit that it has been very challenging to be rapporteur for Ot.prp. No 41. The turnaround of the Progress Party made it difficult to find good solutions. However, I would like to pay tribute to the Workers' Party and the representative of Storberget for signaling subsidiary support for the proposals that the government parties are promoting today. I am convinced that we now have rules for redemption that are fair both for parties and for parties. For me and for the Christian People's Party, justice has been the guiding principle. I hope that through the changes that are now being made to the Law on Landfilling, we can contribute to calm and predictability. Rest and predictability are a wish from both the fastener and the party side. I hope Odelstingen will respect that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e225	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e228	Finally, the rapporteur admitted in his speech that it has been a very demanding task to be rapporteur on this matter. For my part, I would like to add that there is only one expression of how this case has been handled by the government parties - total chaos. In another case, we see that the government parties crack in every direction. The different speakers for the government parties speak in terms of cabins and torments, but the most serious thing is that they have also raised doubts about the Constitution and how it should be interpreted. I therefore have a question for the Christian People's Party, whether the rapporteur of the matter is satisfied with the proceedings, when the Christian People's Party has been involved in negotiating a bill in the Government, and then it ends with the Right changing the whole law of the Stortinget. Is it the right that determines everything in the Cooperation administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e233	Yes, I admit that it has been difficult to be the case rapporteur, as I said in my main post. But I want to say that the chaos that has prevailed has prevailed in the media, which, in its despair of not getting insight into what was actually going on in conversations and negotiations, made its own hypotheses, its claims, and drew its conclusions. There was chaos. For the rapporteur, there has never been any chaos in this matter. What has been quite clear is that we have conducted real negotiations and wanted to find a solution that would be a majority solution before we got as far as treatment in Odelstinget today. We did not come to that conclusion in cooperation with the Progress Party, but, as I have also said, we commend the Workers' Party, which, of course, also has a self-interest in getting this matter settled, for meeting the government parties in areas that are important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e238	Some of the government parties have actually been able to stand firm for quite a bit, is the exception for farmers. The Christian People's Party is concerned that farmers who have more than 10 pst. of its agricultural income from agricultural production, shall benefit from an exemption from the exercise of the right of redemption. This means that farmers who have approx. 90 pst. of their agricultural income from agricultural production, should reduce their agricultural output in order to improve property protection. The district policy of the Christian People's Party is, therefore, that some farmers should reduce agricultural production and become interest-raters. Is this Christian People's Party considered to be a vitalized and forward-looking district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e245	I am surprised that the representative of the Progress Party is thus expressing concern for agriculture, which he is not, in fact, willing to accept in order to obtain such a derogation. If you do not implement your proposal by a hundred percent as the Progress Party wants, you will also not be able to contribute to a solution that is the second best. For the Christian People's Party, it has been a major issue, both in what has led to the position that exists today, and in the debates that I have had on this matter since 1997, to try to find a solution that is as fair as possible for both parties. This rule of exception is a good contribution in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e252	It is tempting to ask how it is usually in the government fraction when it is believed that there has not been chaos in the proceedings in this case, but now leave it. It is set to state that all lots, except the Advance Party, believe that it is an objective that the Law on Santa Claus should be enforced as far as possible by private individuals and without costly legal proceedings. It must be possible to enter into and apply the redemption rules without recourse to legal aid. The Fed believes there will be an explosion in legal disputes as a result of the new § 37. How can the Christian People's Party feel that the proposal for a new section 37, which they have changed for the second time by so-called incurrency, and which opens up discretion and market price, will not become procedural and thus burden both parties, landowners and Norwegian courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e259	These were really two questions. One was the question of whether there has been no chaos in the government fraction. No, there has been no chaos in the government fraction. The small amount of chaos it has been in relation to the Committee has, among other things, passed that the representative Thorkildsen did not submit his comments so that it was possible to know what positions SV had in this case. However, the representative chose to make his views public, not to the Committee, but through the media. It's probably giving more attention. But the chaos to which it refers, I have not registered within the government fraction. When we change Section 37 for the second time, we actually don't. What has happened is that in the event of an incursion, in the event of a lack of observation by proofreading, we did not ensure that § 37 had not changed as our attitude was.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e266	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e270	I hope the last line change we now heard, does not intrude on what kind of debate this should be. This is not a debate that is primarily about the caskling we have had here in the house in relation to the handling of this matter. This is a matter far more important than who publishes what comments, who delivers too late, who is guilty of incurrency, etc. For the Workers' Party, this matter is particularly important. This is a matter that is about the market not being able to sort it out in all circumstances. This is a matter that very clearly shows the innermost faith that many in this hall had in the market even when it was about fasteners. Until the autumn of 2001, when the Workers' Party promoted its deferral proposal in relation to the implementation of the abolition of the tax regulation, it was of the opinion that in this area, too, the market would be able to solve the problem of land fasts. The right to justice that happens tonight - if we get this case in port - is that a total increase actually chooses to leave that rate in relation to market pricing. One chooses to walk the path that the Workers' Party has always pointed to - and has been accused of being both Stalinists and one and the other - namely to reintroduce price regulation. In this way, this matter is very important in terms of how we perceive political messages and political tools. For the Workers' Party, it has been fundamental in this case that this is about some of the safest social benefits we have, both Nordics and foreigners, namely our own home primarily, but also leisure property. It might form part of our foundation. Both when we talk about crime prevention, social prevention and drug prevention, yes, one of the most central is just creating a safe housing base for most people. Then it's reassuring that the debate seems to take a direction where one actually forgets that around this country there are 350,000 people who have some kind of contract based on the law that we're going to deal with today, and the fraction of them are housing. We know about singles, older women, older men, who like to be left alone with a rather narrow pension, whether it's at Aurskog, at Rena, at Elverum, in Asker, in the South, in North Norway -- all over the country -- and who just got the uncertainty that we don't want people to have around their own home. It is not only that you have received a huge increase in the price of your fee, but you have also been given an uncertainty as to whether this could continue, and you have been given an uncertainty as to whether you can really sit on this good. It is this element that we have to bring with us when we are going to assess all the reliefs of this matter, both in relation to the constitution and in relation to what should be appropriate redemption rules and charging rules. That is why the Workers' Party has chosen to run this case as they have done in this big business during this period, including. three private Document No Eight proposals. The main background was that we did not want to implement the tax reform introduced in 2001. The paradox is in many ways that all the warnings that came that fall have been given to the government parties and the party of progress, so that it wears off, simply because a reaction has been made that this has to be changed. But the paradox, as I said, is that what we are now putting into effect in 2001 is full-blown. To the extent that a charge regulation can be called a dark one, a thousand-year darkness is introduced to the party contracts. One market regulation, and then it's the end. We in the Workers' Party are pleased that this is actually a step forward and the principle that this is acceptable both in relation to the Constitution and in relation to politics. I have to admit that with regard to the process in Stortinget, it is worrying that we have such a process. It is obvious that both the government parties and, in my opinion, the others here have played out that has primarily contributed to creating difficulties here in the Storting on the matter. But leave it. What I'm most afraid of is the insecurity that is actually created among those who live on a fixed ground, because of the treatment that we are now facing. This is also the background to the fact that in the Workers' Party at this treatment we have chosen to extend very far from getting the case into port and not running this case as an electoral campaign into 2005, not to say that we are going down with the flag to the top because we had a different type of solution, although today's Santa Claus law both in terms of redemption and the charging instrument is significantly worse than what now seems to be the solution of the majority. In this way, SV's position surprises me greatly. In addition, there is reason to say that there are many good arguments in the constitutional discussion we have had around the proposals, which there is reason to include here. We have little work to do with the provision adopted on redemption, which has been presented today early. Therefore, there is also a reason for the Workers' Party to mark the following: In our opinion, ownership is not a sacred and absolute size. The same applies to contract law. We have limited it in many different ways, including ownership. We have rules. The centre party, the Labour Party, the Right and even the Advance Party have been eager regulators. Today's property law, which many of the parties have supported, contains the regulations that well paid lawyers and property organisations now point out should be so acutely contrary to the Constitution. We have redemption rules in the Law on Landfill. We have rules on pricing in terms of redemption, without necessarily putting it on the head as being absolutely contrary to the basic law we have today. That's why it's our opinion that the steps you have to take now are fully in line with the Constitutional Law, and they're not contrary to the Constitutional Law. And we will strongly claim from the Workers' Party that our principal proposals that will be promoted here today are also good in the field of constitutional protection. Owners of property must accept regulation and restrictions, in particular with regard to activating and social purposes. People's security for owner-occupied dwellings and cabins is such a purpose. We originally wanted from the Labour Party to put forward three main proposals - and we will do that today, as a matter of principle. Firstly, the Labour Party has always wanted to introduce price regulation. We get it partially. We also propose that the provision proposed for price regulation provides for the possibility of re-regulating the regulated charge. Point 2: We suggest granting the right of redemption to both the house and the cabin, and calculating the redemption amount to 25 times the annual fee - but adjusted for the price. Moreover, we firmly believe that this way of organising the property market is so inappropriate and creates so many conflicts, so much uncertainty - there is so much in it - that it should also be banned for the future. Finally, the working party is happy that it seems that we can get a solution today. We take responsibility for obtaining a majority for the changes that we think are good. Many years of fighting for our part has resulted in many ways that on this occasion we get what we may have fought most for: we get the principle of price regulation. We also get the acceptance from the right-hand side because that's the way to go in relation to the bonding contracts that won't be redeemed for various reasons. In addition, it is important for the Workers' Party that we now ensure that we have an opportunity to extend the party agreements - I kept saying fortunately. Fifty-year contracts are about to go too far, so you need to secure exactly those that don't know what tomorrow would have to bring. In addition, we are pleased that the right of redemption is now being extended. You don't bring it in as something new, but you expand it and do it in general. We should like to see Odelstingen support us in making it absolute. We understand that we don't get a majority for that. We also believe that we have a right of redemption today that is actually cheaper and less bureaucratic than the one in today's empty fasteners legislation. We are also pleased that many of the Santa parties around the country get a reasonable redemption, even with this rule of 40 pst. by the market price, that it will actually catch up with many of those who are coming out very badly today. I am surprised that we do not receive support from SV in relation to that. Politics is to want, but it's also to get to. I address the proposals on which the Workers' Party stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e306	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e311	Knut Storberget and the original proposal of the Workers' Party was that 25 non-regulated fixed charges should be taken into account upon redemption. With the prices and sums we've received during this process, we've found out that very many nice beach properties, beautiful mountains, etc. would be redeemed for less than NOK 10000. During the process Knut Storberget has stood on his side, but he has had comments on the Government's arrangements. On 5 May he stated in a press release that he thought the government's proposal was too bad, that was not good enough. On June 9th, when the government parties changed their order and presented it, he said that the government's original proposal was considerably better. Finally, Storberget, hopefully, ends on a subsidiary connection to the regime of the government parties. I want to ask Knut Storberget if he does not agree that imposing discretion, and the possibility of using discretion, will give us a fairer law on the land.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e320	I fully agree with Greece's description and representation of my statements. It's absolutely correct. It is obvious that we see that the first proposal of the Government was better, and that in this way it has gone down with the proposals of the government parties. There's no doubt about it. But it is clear that there is no easy situation for us who believe that this is an important matter to get through, when we meet a government fraction who does not want to talk about the realities of the matter, and who says: Take it or leave it. As for the question of discretion, I have to say that the Labour Party's principal proposals are on a multiplier, and that alone. We think that's the fairest solution. It will create the simplest possible solution to this system and will help to avoid processes. But when that is said, I think it's possible to get discretion in relation to those Santas who now have to use it, which could be reasonable, among other things. if we get the ministry's help to make rules or regulations in relation to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e327	When it is claimed that the market cannot clean up, it is in itself nice that Storberget joins the service. The prohibition of the conclusion of voluntary agreements The Workers' Party does not like to solve the problems in the future. In this context, there is therefore a ban on new fastening agreements proposed by the Workers' Party. Does this warn that the Workers' Party will soften the law of the land and the practice of delegating, so that a person is given the opportunity to buy land, or is the lack of land and stagnation in the development of a desired alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e334	I have to say that I think the replicator has a rare ability to talk about things this matter really isn't about, and that concerns questions about the law of the earth and its decoration. In my opinion, it is a completely different matter, which is so far well planted in another committee. I'm private, personal, of the opinion that the law of the land has a lot of good things to do, but there's a lot of other considerations to take into account-- arronistic considerations, questions about the development of agriculture, etc. I feel that there is something else we are discussing now. What has shaped the attitude of the Progress Party in this matter all the time, from day one, is that one has actually talked about something completely different, has never been on that track, and has never helped to resolve this matter. The Progress Party has not been the spokesmen of the small corps - quite obviously. And you have to start wondering what kind of speakers you really have. In a debate in the Chamber on 18 February 2003, André Kukkestad said: "We believe that a redemption should be a right for all the parties." This was said by the representative of the Progress Party over a year ago. Today they vote against it. We have to get to the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e344	I'm going to pick up one of the few points where our parties are separating layers, and it's for the general public. The working party will grant redemption rights to the general public and will ensure tonight that this will be the legal status of the general government. In SV we do not understand this. Fixed conditions in general have almost not been affected by conflict, and the Empty fasteners Association accepts exemptions from the right of redemption for recreational property in these areas. Historically, public opinion has been common areas, where point-fixing is widely discussed. The importance of these areas as common resources is the reason why they have been protected from subdivision and disposal. Values that this tends to be something the Working Party is also concerned about. It is therefore strange that the party has taken the position they have in this matter. The sale and establishment of self-employed units in the general public will create problems for the rights of use and other important interests in the areas. The importance of the reindeer industry may also be opposed to the fragmentation of many areas. What is the reason why the Workers' Party ignores these considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e353	The reason why we've ignored these considerations is because I think they're largely misguided, that it's not right. I don't think that changing from being the tenant of a cottage property and a reason, either in a general or elsewhere, to becoming the owner changes something in relation to the legal state, neither in relation to the public's mobility, nor in relation to the right to graze, nor in relation to other images of rights. But the reason why we're voting the way we're doing in Odelstinget is that the Workers' Party wants a clean right of redemption without exception, whether it's agriculture or the general public. That is why we are surprised that government teams and government parties are actually taking the general public out of their proposal. As I said, this is a proposal that has not been negotiated, which we regard as a package. For me, the background and motivation for different treatment of the general public and the general public are totally unclear. In this way, I would rather want a fairer treatment of the two types of generalisation, by at least treating them the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e360	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e363	Santa Claus is a widespread type of right in Norway and has long traditions. The real estate institution shall have a two-part right of ownership. The owner of the land is the owner, while the owner of the land is the owner of buildings or structures. The proposals and amendments to the Law on Landings are simplified and are intended to reduce the level of conflict and court proceedings. They will also eliminate the uncertainty created by previous decisions among trappers and landowners. According to the Norwegian Association of Cottages, the current law has been difficult to understand. "They believe the law is extremely complicated and almost impossible to understand for people who do not have special insight into matter." Even within the law firm, few are in control of the law. The right believes it is correct and reasonable that an empty can be redeemed after 30 years of attachment. There are several reasons for accepting redemption: The owner of the land has, in fact, given up the land in the foreseeable future through the conclusion of a contract. The party has paid property taxes, VAR taxes and infrastructure on the land. In certain cases, the Landfill Institute was required to use land because of the historically limited right to free movement of land. Political interference in private contractual relationships has already occurred and has created unnecessary and loud conflicts in several party relationships. Self - owned democratic principles indicate that it is clearly socially appropriate that a homeowner also owns the grounds on which the house is based. Fasting conditions were also established in many cases because fasteners had limited equity. The right of redemption shall apply to land attached away to both houses and cabins. However, the exercise of the right of redemption will not concern the land of the country in Finnland, in rural or recreational buildings attached to an agricultural property, where the property income amounts to 10 p.m. or more of the farm's entrepreneurial income. Landowners in District Norway shall continue to have the opportunity to live on their resources in line with property owners in the city. The size, including the Workers' Party, has previously encouraged farmers to find alternative incomes for traditional agriculture. Many district farmers, especially around large ski resorts, have deliberately obtained revenues as a result of this call. It would be wrong for district policy to reverse this. Otherwise, the law will grant a general right to extend the contract under the same conditions as before. The right agreed with the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to give the parties the right of redemption. Last year the party to the progress was an avid champion of the decision on the exercise of the right of redemption. In February 2003 the spokesman for the Progress Party, André Kvakkestad, concluded in the Stortinget that: "We believe that a redemption should be a right for all the parties." In the nations on 22 May this year, the representative Kukkestad continues: "We are in favour of a right of redemption for an individual pricing." Just three weeks later, Carl I. Hagen advocates that the Progress Party is now in principle opposed to the exercise of the right of redemption. For me, the unforeseeableness of the Advance Party in the Santa Claus case is as unpredictable as the rules of Team Antonsen's "Extra Joker Nord". The parties Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party even sent out a press release on redemption rights and pricing proposals that the Christian People's Party and the Right have now followed up. From being a enforcer and a striker of the right of redemption in 2003, the Progress Party is now, in 2004, an ardent opponent of the right of redemption. The Workers' Party has, almost fundamentally, led a struggle against the law of Santa Claus and Greek landowners. The Labour Party has used the most extreme provisions of the 1996 Act to abolish the Santa Claus Institute. The right does not support any of these views. Only a few landowners have grappled with large party fees from the parties. Most parties, 75 pst. of all 350 000 fasteners, have less than 3000 kroner in annual fasteners charge. In fact, each fourth party has a fee lower than NOK 1000. For the sake of comparison, it costs a lot more to rent a fixed campsite a few summer months. The landowners have, in my opinion, acted responsibly and soberly. According to the press notice as late as 30 January 2004, the Workers' Party and Knut Storberget would grant the right for landowners to redeem "for 25 times a year-old priced landowners' parties", which would be very unfair to the many landowners and according to legal expertise would be contrary to the Constitution § 105. The working party itself has a touching concern for the small crew, that is. the parcels of land in this context, but have obviously not been present when the consequences of a massive tax on the owners of houses have been adopted, such as house taxes, property taxes and property taxes. And if the Swedish model is wanted, it's really bad for the little union people. Then there will be no pro-mille of Equation Tariffs to be taxed, then there will be percentages of market values to be taxed. The primary point of view of the Workers' Party in the Landfill case and in the tax policy shows the Workers' Party's lack of basic ownership. A ban on land fastening as the Workers' Party wishes would in the long run reduce the supply of land and create a higher price for available land. In the last 30 years, the land price has increased by twice the consumption price. The Labour Party has been pursuing a regulatory policy for several decades that has given these strong price increases on land. This is particularly the case through creative constraints in the Law on Planning and Building and a strict local practice which has helped to limit the supply of available land. For a landowner it may have its advantages to have an annual income from a land, without selling the land with a negative effect for the coming generations. For many who do not have the economy to pay a high price for a cabin, a land-use contract may allow themselves to obtain the right to dispose of a land that would otherwise not be possible. The right therefore wants the firm to remain as part of the free contract law, but wants to lay down clear rules for redemption and price fixing in future fixed-term contracts. All historical experience shows that private ownership is the most efficient way to manage society’s resources. The right of redemption for owners of dwellings will help to strengthen self-ownership democracy. In the design of the Landfill Act in 1966, the Right argued that the law should respect both the owner's right to the buildings and the owner's right to the land. The regulation of the fastening charge may make it difficult to achieve a full balance between these interests. To this end, the right wishes that this should be as much as possible up to the parties themselves to agree. The new main rules are: after 30 years of fastening, an empty can be redeemed to 30 times the fixed fee, if the parties agree. If the parties do not agree, a discretionary rule shall be used, which is based on the raw space value at the time of redemption. So the redemption price is going to be 40 pst. of the market value, after adjusting it after the value increase the land has been fed by the land by the landowner and the land by the landowner. Remove the government’s original proposal for a minimum redemption sum of NOK 50000. Both the Progress Party and the Centre Party require that before a decision is taken, the Stortinget receives its decision on redemption and redemption price. That the Center Party wants this, it's not least surprising, because they're opposed to any redemption. The party of progress was just a year ago one of the perpetrators for redemption to the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposing questions about the constitutionality of a bill would appear to be exceptional in the light of Storting’s practice. It seems to have been the view of the Storting, at least in the 20th century, that it is up to the Storting itself to decide on the understanding of the Constitution and to consider questions of its composition and jurisdiction. It was evident in a debate in 1939, when the Storting refrained from asking for the Supreme Court's consideration as to whether it would be constitutional to allow an extension of the ageing period to apply to the ongoing accumulation. It is also clear that the use of Section 83 of the Basic Law, with a subsequent opinion from the Supreme Court, will not deter interested parties from having the basic law of a law passed under ordinary rules in a civil dispute. For the Right, it has been important, once redemption is made, to obtain a redemption price that is reasonable, predictable, balanced and fair to both parties and landowners. The government's template model is likely to be unproblematic in three out of four contractual relationships. On the one hand, the consultation round, with particular reference from the landowners’ side, has pointed out great unfairness in relation to the redemption price in the press areas around the largest cities, and especially in popular coastal areas with little possibility of creating additional plots. On the other hand, a minimum price of NOK 50000 would seem unreasonable elsewhere, especially in the country. The right has not turned the case around, but has been consistent with previous decisions in the case over the last ten years. In conclusion, I would like to address the critics who claim that the Right has waved in the matter. In the interests of legal representation and investigations, the right has supplemented the Government’s proposal with a voluntary possibility for the parties to claim the redemption price established by a member of the public. Here, landowners and parties will have the opportunity to appoint their own experts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e437	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e441	The working party is accused of being regulatory. Yes, we are. In this area, we are very eager to have new regulations. And I have to say that in that way I think it's an honorary name. But it's strange in the light of the fact that the Right now contributes to perhaps using the quasi-equipment in relation to regulation, namely price regulation on party seats. So my question to the representative Dybevig is, is it that the Right just says they're not regulatory, and they're not actually in favour of redemption, and they're only in favour of redemption when the Progress Party votes for it? Is it true that the right is for price regulation only when others may form such a majority - in order not to be regulatory? And my third question: is it also that the Right now will be able to help those who get a giant ransom to ensure a downward adjustment for subsequent legislative changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e454	I made my contribution to the Right's view in relation to the Right's right of redemption, and I believe it is right that we should be in favour of the Right's right of redemption. That's because there's a landowner who owns the property, and another who owns the house. A contract has been concluded between the landowner and the parties, and that contract is permanent. We see that by such long-term and binding contracts it will be an advantage for the owner of the house to have the land redeemed. I also explained in my article why we believe it is important that the right of redemption be granted. In fact, the landowner has already given up the reason for the incalculable future through the conclusion of a contract. The bill that we are now on the road with will help to make things clearer to both landowners and landowners and to clarify a good deal of things that have been unexplained and difficult to understand for very many.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e461	In individual pricing, one could have expected the Right to want equal treatment for landowners and parties. With the proposal that now exists, parties have to pay 40 pst. of the land value, with the deduction of the land input by the attachment. Something similar does not exist if the landowner has added anything to the land. So the landowner doesn't have to figure out how to invest in the plot, because he only gets 40 pst. back again. With the same investment, parties will get back 100 pst. If you had a situation where the parties and landowners invested NOK 100000 each, the attachment would have been returned to NOK 160 000 at the redemption and the landowner NOK 40000. Is this what a landowner party considers to be a care for the needs of the landowner and a fair solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e468	When I hear Kukkestad's line, I have to say that the reasoning for me sounds quite false, and I now understand why the Progress Party has turned the case around. In fact, the investments made on the site, in all of them, most of the cases are made by the party, not by the landowner. It must be wrong to say that the landowner has made the largest investments. The biggest investments, in relation to both sewerage, road and other things, are basically the partyer who has made, so he wants to get rid of this, of course. In addition, the market price comes. So the landowner gets 40 pst. the market price. The valuation of the market price also includes the values of the landowner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e475	In 1996, when the price regulation was adopted, the Right Party and the Progressive Party wrote the following comments: "In the opinion of these members, an adjustment to the agreements then may result in a substantial short-term impact of the fast fees may not be a decisive argument for its non-implementation.These members indicate that there is a basis for reviewing agreements which, according to a concrete assessment, are unreasonable under Section 36 of the Contracts Act." My question is as follows: Since no one has won by relying on Section 36 of the contract law in court, is it not time to admit that it was wrong in 1996, or to say that the basic ownership interests are too important for ordinary people to be taken into account? So I have one more question. The representative Dybevig says that it is an advantage for the parties to have the right of redemption. Why not then make the right of redemption real for people, instead of putting on a variant that too many attachment will make the right of redemption illusory?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e489	It's right as No Marte Thorkildsen says, the right did not go for a price adjustment when it came to realignment of bonding contracts. But we supported it subsidiaryly. And today we have a proposal for a decision that has come from the Government, and we support Section 15 in terms of limitation in relation to the nine-thousands rule, etc. But I have to say, in the Right's view, ownership is fundamentally important in a modern, well-functioning society. And it is alarming that SV questions the Right's interpretation of ownership, when SV has very poor follow-up in its political programmes in relation to ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e494	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e497	Land parcels are nothing but an agreement between two parties for the rental of a land over a longer period of time. The manner in which the land is used is either provided for in the contract or up to the lessee within the period for which the contract is to be concluded. Equal treatment of all parties and owners involved is important for the Progress Party. In other words, the scope of construction and construction of certain fasteners also needs to have a continuous assessment of the appropriateness. In a country which considers itself to respect property rights and which places the freedom of contract high, it will have to do some more before a dramatic review of agreements which initially do not appear unreasonable. If an agreement appears unreasonable, Section 36 of the Contracts Act may be used. This also applies if the agreement develops to become unfair. In other words, the agreements concluded must be respected, unless normal contractual relations are contrary. We understand that it can be dramatic when socialist coercive regulation finally seems to be releasing the roof. The problem is that the contractual terms of the agreements previously concluded have been suspended. When one is going to repeat several decades of lag, this is going to be perceived by several people as unexpected. The fact that real estate agents have stated that there are hardly any differences between a self-ownership and a land as a party has proved misleading. But that the original parties have been paid for more than they were supposed to, cannot be solved by the landowners paying the cost. The landowners, as one party to the agreement, have not benefited from the overprice received by some former owners for their properties. If a buyer acquires a lease, he assumes the rights and obligations of the previous owner. On that basis, it must be possible to treat a person as if he had entered into the commitments he had received on the purchase. All the aspects relating to the fixation relationship are materialistic and accessible. This should enable all parties to cope. It is interesting to hear which driver the party of progress should have been in this matter of Santa Claus. We helped to present more alternatives to redemption, so that we could see the different rules in an overall context. It was actually special to avoid a multiplication table that we were willing to look at the matter in order to consider seeing it as an opportunity for everyone to get a redemption. Some signals that we were going to go in for what was close to the proposition, or that lies here from the government parties, were not given in any way. It also comes out quite clearly if a reader reads Inns. S. No 102 for 2002-2003. It's interesting that this government chose to promote just what it didn't want, that's a proposal based on a multiplication table. Then I have come to understand that the members of the Government do not agree with the representatives of their parties, or vice versa -- they do. But we've noticed the kind of cracking whole of these parties. A relationship that amazes us is the easy way in which some people have had with the Constitution. The progress party believes it is best to be on the safe side. Therefore, a few observations from the Supreme Court should be made if a person wishes to move into a frontier country. The questions raised are about the intervention in existing contracts, about large-scale redemption resulting in the transfer of ownership from the land owner to the lessee, are in line with the requirement of the state's discretion, and whether the redemption sum will satisfy the requirement for full compensation. In particular, the requirement for full compensation will be important in a possible multiplication table. Regardless of the outcome of this vote, it would be appropriate to clarify this in the light of possible future rematches, where one might need more than the views of a random voter. The Party of Progress doubts whether such a large-scale redistribution of property is without further doubt compatible with the principles and provisions on which the Constitution is based. Much of the problems you see are due, as I said, to the lack of convergence of the effects of regulated contracts and the reality within which they operate. Now, when one seems to introduce a right to redemption that is not related to the new rule on the right to renewal, this increases asymmetry. Contracts to be redeemed often have to pass through judgement. Several factors are distributed in relation to owners and parties, including the allocation of the social value added. The problem is that in the event of a renewal, this development should not be taken into account in society, but extended under old conditions. This will increase the gap between rental and ownership as time passes. In this way, you prevent a smooth transition and rather create an even more difficult relationship on the day the parties want to redeem. The relationship between an incredibly cheap partying agreement and an essentially empty animal will then create conflicts. Part of the problem of Santa Claus is that lease regulation agreements have been publicly regulated for several decades. The large amount of adjustment has therefore led to a difficult situation. This is something the Progress Party is taking seriously. The question then becomes how to solve a difficult situation for a small number who find it difficult to sit with a owner-occupied dwelling. The solution of the socialists is, of course, to attack the landowner. However, a good housing policy does not necessarily have anything to do with minimising other people’s income and livelihoods. The experience of regulated urban rentals is a gruesome example of maturity and lack of holisticity. Probably no one argues that under 1 pst. The return on an empty space is very small. So it might not be the owner of the land that's Greek here. This may mean that other and more accurate methods are available to ensure that social security and pensioners live in their homes, rather than intervene in the concrete fastening agreements. This is the basis for the Progress Party to want the Government to assess alternative solutions for those with a high land leash and so low income that they have problems sitting with their own dwellings. Long-term leaseability is an option and not a necessity now that government credit regulations have been abolished. If you get an additional humane practice of the law so that more people can get a self-employment empty, party conditions will only be a solution where this is desirable for both parties. It is the opposite of what Storberget tried to express instead - a relationship between the possibility of dissociating and the possibility of getting available plots if attachment is prohibited. The party believes that adults must be allowed to have the opportunity to enter into an agreement to fasten. There is therefore no need, as we see it, to prohibit people from entering into leases, if they themselves wish to do so. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party, and the Progress Party will vote against the proposals we do not support ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e542	The representative, André Kukkestad, has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e547	It is not always as easy to follow in what the Progress Party believes in politics. I just have to say that I get confused sometimes, because the party changes its position all the time. We've experienced it many times before as well. First, they were against public support for kindergartens, while now they are too public support for all kindergartens. At first they were against the school vacation scheme, and they were for a while, and now I really must say that I'm not sure what they mean. So they were against state ownership, and now they're too state ownership. That's what we in the Workers' Party are very pleased about. On the other hand, we are not pleased with the total turnaround of the Advance Party in relation to the law on Santa Claus. Not more than a year and a half ago, the representative Kukkestad said in this room: "We believe redemption should be a right for all the parties." The Santa parties are those who have reason to feel weakened by the Advance Party in this matter. Can't the Advance Party do as they've done so many times before, turn again?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e560	I am glad that the Workers' Party always stands on its points of view and cannot think of going back to old positions, such as opening hours for shops, regulation of loan frameworks or, in and of itself, net wages in relation to seafarers, which change depending on whether they are inside or outside government offices. The party to the progress has dealt with this matter, and that treatment has been clear and clear with regard to our position. So it's the way the world changes. It's probably also a reality the Workers' Party has seen, and I think it would be appropriate in itself that as much as possible be related to the reality you live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e569	I actually share the views of the Workers' Party in relation to what the Progress Party believes in different matters. It is very confusing to know what position they come out with when they have finally finished dealing with the matter. So first of all, they're essentially the right of redemption for all the plotters. No one shall be redeemed. But in other words, André Kukkestad today says that you're too entitled to redemption for everyone. First of all, you are completely opposed, and in other words, you are completely in favour. Is it that it became too difficult that it was too unpleasant for the Progress Party to take a stand? And was it so that you couldn't figure out which way the wind blew in this case, so it was timely to get out of the case and get out of the outside and not participate in the discussion, because you couldn't take a position, because you couldn't figure out where the case was actually going to end up in relation to the "most people," as you say in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e574	An important principle for us is equal treatment, also for the landowners. That means either you have to give a right that gives everyone the same right to the landowners, or you don't have to give a right. It can't be, from our point of view, that one should have divided the landowners of this country into non-worthy, noble/non-prime landowners. I understand that the right in this case cannot understand that you have equal treatment as a starting point. It's probably not as easy to understand for the Right either that things can change during a process. I have understood that the Right process in this matter has been very clear, from when they wanted a multiplication table until they now want something completely different.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e581	The progress party tends to say that they are on the side with people most, especially when the counterparty is the state. SV and the Progress Party have a common note criticising the Information Society's fund, OVF, for the way they have acted as landowners in fastening conditions. So here it's not about the nobility or the nobility, it's about the state going ahead and showing the way with a very bad example. The note is very sharp. But it doesn't help just to shut up when we can actually act as well. SV has therefore made a proposal today asking the Government to use its right of instruction to instruct the OVF to change its charging policy. In order to make the proposal as edible as possible, we have chosen to put ourselves on a moderate line, where we propose to lower the maximum price that OVF can take per. measures from NOK 9 000 per year to NOK 4000 per year. Here the Progress Party has an excellent opportunity to show that the party is nevertheless occupied by people's rights vis-à-vis a sometimes greedy state. The question is: will the Progress Party avail itself of this possibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e590	We will not support SV's proposals. It has something to do with still looking at the question of a general maximum. In fact, within the Information Society's fund there is also a great variation within the various plots that are attached away. In fact, it is quite possible that some of these plots are so lucrative that they are e.g. can be attached away to five or six thousand dollars per. Objective. Therefore, we believe that it is more important to establish that the information society fund's treatment has generally not been good, and that we also believe that the state should lead by example. To have more than halve the maximum option, it's not just to reduce or adjust, it's to use the ax.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e597	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e600	SV has always taken the party of plotters against greedy landowners, where the state at the Information Society's fund has been one of the most greedy. At the same time, the SV has been positively aligned with the Landfill Foundation itself, which we have seen as an opportunity to regulate the level of prices of land, dwellings and cabins, an opportunity to stimulate housing, an opportunity to maintain a certain level of control over the use of land and an opportunity to prevent privatisation of land where the joint ownership has been in the public interest or in the interest of the community. We are e.g. to exempt the general public from the right of redemption. In addition, we see that agriculture needs in particular the long-term income that the fees from leisure parties give them. But then we also assume that the level of fees is kept at an acceptable level. The SV therefore proposes to re-regulate the level of fees until 1 January 2002 and that it should be allowed to regulate the fees only after that. It's really a shame that nothing but the Workers' Party is involved in this. SV believes that there was a rather brutal change in the bourgeois parties for 1996. If it had been up to the Right, the conditions would be even worse, because then there would have been no roof either. There are now people in this gallery who have started sleeping medicine on their older days, because they had trouble sleeping at night when the majority released market forces and gave a lot of people a tax shock that we have rarely seen in Norway. So serious is this matter. SV means, like, among others. The Landsförbund of Norwegian Housing Building Association, that future housing properties must be banned, today's legal status has simply become unsustainable. For all the dwellings that are on a fixed ground, there must be redemption rights, we must clear the uncertainty that lies around any of the dearest people own, namely their own home. SV will enter in order to calculate the sum of the redemptions, both for dwellings and leisure homes, using a multiplier model which multiplied the fee applicable before 1 January 2002 by 25 but adjusted the price of the fee. However, we do not want to wind up the Santa Claus Institute for Recreational Housing, but we believe that it is necessary to re-regulate the level of charges to the extent this was before the hopeless change of law entered into many Santa Claus’s everyday life on 1 January 2002. We believe that a multiplier of 25 will give a reasonable sum to the fastener, as we reject the idea of a potential market price for fasteners. 25 times the fee will, after 20 years of fixing, in most cases give a total equivalent to the value of the land at the time of the agreement, and often more than so. SV rejects the fact that this is unfair for landowners who have earlier agreements that provide low annual fees, as the value added it refers to is largely the result of societal changes and investments made by the landowner and the fact that the land has been used by the landowner. In addition, during the hearing on 10 May, the representative of the Norwegian Hytteverbund showed how the results for landowners can be completely random, depending on the social situation at a given time. When you sell, LNF adjustments, etc. has, for example: meaning of what the landowners are left with to the seventh and last. In many respects, landowners who have opted out of sale or possession may have come out best because they have for many years received a fee from the party that has given more total income than would have been obtained if they had chosen to keep or sell the land. SV is for redemption rights to be granted after 20 years of fixation, with a new entitlement to redemption every five years. Early in the 1980s, the Willoch government released the market forces and greed at the Santa Claus parties, and many of them came out very badly. Fortunately, this was reversed a few months later, when one realized that this was a brutal policy that, in the worst case, drove people from home. However, on 1 January 2002, market forces were re-introduced, this time using all lots except SV and the Workers' Party. Some people experienced their life's tax shock and have had many sleepless nights since then. It is paradoxical that parties such as The propulsion party, which fights for low alcohol and tobacco taxes, sees no problem with a fee that matters whether people can stay in their house or not. For older people like those currently in the gallery, this means that old age is marked by fear of the future. I would like to quote the comments of the Progress Party from Innst. O. No 70 for 1999-2000. It says: "In the view of these members, the fact that an adjustment to the agreements then may result in a substantial short-term impact of the fast fees may not be a decisive argument for its non-implementation." This is quite amazing, and I think it says a lot about the attitude the party has towards the everyday lives of ordinary people and what they really value here in life. Hagen went a long way to Redaktion EN on 9 June in suggesting a fee of NOK 16 452 per person. years are affordable for an older married couple. It was after Hans and Else Kjensli told me about the fee increase they have been hit by. But what does Hagen know about the economic situation of Santa Claus? The annual fee involves a full month's pension for the married couple Keensli, and there are plenty of similar examples. Often the parties that are now in a deep crisis are older people, and it is well possible that one of the spouses falls away a while before the other. My question is, what has Hagen intended to tell them the day it happens, and the other one is left with the entire fee? Is he going to have to sell the house? The Progress Party today suggests that the Government should look at alternative relief measures for people who have had major problems, among others. due to the Party's own changes and mentioning housing allowances as an option. So they want to make people clients, build up even more bureaucracy and use the state's funds to subsidize the landowners. This is too messy! This is the opposite of choosing people's party. This is the opposite of caring for the individual. SV takes as a starting point for our positions in this matter that it is actually impossible to take the house or the cabin on your back and move. This means that, at least where the party’s contract does not have a clause which clearly states that the charge should be regulated according to the index of consumer prices, the party most vulnerable is the party. In our view, it is unsustainable to pursue a policy in which the level of charges is to be changed in line with the principles of supply and demand. The Norwegian Takserings Association gave us clear notice at the hearing on 10 May. You can't find a serious valuer who wants to set a market value on a fixation. A non-constructed land is not unconstructed. It cannot be sold on an open market. In fact, there is only one potential buyer, namely the party seam. In its hearing opinion, the Bargaining Association writes that if the redemption sum is to be linked to the current market value of the land, this creates considerable uncertainty for the landowner. In many cases, fastenings can occur in a situation where redemption becomes impossible. The tax association believes, as is the case with, inter alia: The blank fastener, that it must be the one who has the right to use the land, that should have the value added, since it is the very use of the land that has created added value. Had the land been lying like forest, field or land, the corresponding increase in value would not have come. This is the SV fully in agreement. In addition, in the case of newly concluded contracts, SV believes that there is a significant point - and there I have many examples, among others. from my own home country, Vestfold - that very many people have paid exactly the same for their home or cottage on fixed land as the other in the municipality has paid for a dwelling or cabin on a self-ownership basis. So they've already paid extra for what the plot was worth. They now feel that they have to pay the land again to get it redeemed. Others concluded the contract at a time when it was common to attach large plots, but where the plot itself was not worth anything. When the law was amended in 2002, many of these people experienced a tax shock. SV believes these groups have been treated very poorly by the majority in this room for many years. You should not bald and choose with people's own homes, with people's security. Where is the involvement of these people with the majority of the parties on the Storting? Why did they allow the culture of greed to flourish? Why did they allow many to be deprived of their night sleep? How can they accept that the State at the Information Service Fund is getting the most thin out of people with some low incomes, without using the opportunity to ask the Government to instruct them to change practice? The Commission is therefore proposing this today. We want the Government to use its commanding authority to the State Forest and the Information Society Fund. Some people have had to sell their homes because of today's Santa Claus Act. Others are simply not sold and are in an impossible situation, because they cannot afford to pay the sky-high fees either. Once again, others will experience that they will not be able to afford to redeem the land after the regime that is now under way. It's true that 70-75 pst. Norwegian landowners charge less than NOK 3000 per year, which is both affordable and acceptable. But this is a real comfort to those who do not have fees at this level, and who got their fees changed violently almost overnight when the majority of the population decided to take the landowners' party in 1996. The people who lost when the law was amended on 1 January 2002 are still losers today when the law is amended again. The government parties would not negotiate, but decided to go ahead with the government's own arrangement after massive pressure from right-wing voters and right-wing members around. The result was a patchwork of a legal text, which is slightly improved in the proposal distributed at the representatives’ posts. However, we are sure that this will lead to strong pressure on Norwegian courts in the future and lead to a great deal of uncertainty and despair for the landowners. On the NRK website of 10 June, the following statement was made: "Those who cheer most today are perhaps the country's valuers. Because it is up to them to set the market price on the plots of 350 000 Norwegians." We could add that the lawyers also have reason to drink tonight. SV is extremely concerned about all the parties that are not getting help, but we are going to continue this fight further. I am addressing the proposals that have been made by the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e653	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e658	If all the parties in this room had handled this matter in the same way as SV does during voting here today, the 350 000 Santa Claus parties in Norway would have had a really blue day tomorrow. They would have woken up to the same old Santa Claus law that we have today -- a law with market-driven rent and with an animal, complicated and bureaucratic redemption right that only part of the Santa Claus can benefit from. Can SV defend keeping the old law when we know that the right of redemption we now have is cheaper, less bureaucratic and more than today's system does? Is it better without redemption or price regulation? If the Workers' Party had not taken responsibility, today's law would remain in place. Are the principles more important to SV than to obtain results for the rights of landowners?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e665	The answer to that question is clearly no. Obviously, we wanted to look at all the possibilities to make this law better. What we were very surprised about was that the Workers' Party already decided on Thursday evening that they would go for it. I have to say that I reacted to the argument of the representative of Storberget, because I felt that he had taken over some of the government parties' own arguments and thought that this was almost a good proposal. We totally disagree with that. Since the Advance Party had turned so much until then, we had a hope that the Advance Party might be able to wing even a little more until tonight, and preferably in our direction. That was the background. In addition, we had the proposal that initially existed. It was even more unclear than what we now have. It said no less than 40 pst. of the land value at the time of redemption. What did that mean? Meaning 40 pst. or 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or 100 pst.? It was extremely unclear, and we wouldn't agree to take responsibility for maybe getting a lot of unnecessary lawsuits in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e674	First of all, I shall be allowed to express my surprise at the ability of the representative Thorkildsen to stand out as the only witness of truth for what is right and wrong. It repeats over and over again. It repeats itself with bravour now that the representative Thorkildsen is the one who claims what is right out there among people. It is possible that the representative of Thorkildsen thinks so. I assume you have a different view of it in this room. When we see the support that SV's proposal has received, it may not be that simple. At the same time, the representative has attacked the Progress Party in order not to comply with the SV’s proposal. And then I want to play the ball back. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has a proposal here asking that we look at the unfortunate consequences of the proposals that are now before us. If it is so important for SV to intervene with the situation, why do you not agree to send the case and see this? Then SV can also participate in adding leadership where there will be unfortunate consequences. But here you sit on your high horse, and you don't want to get involved actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e682	In fact, I think that the representative Ellingsen confuses what he might perceive as seaworthy, with social commitment. In the Justice Committee, we are dealing with a number of issues that affect some of the weakest in society. It affects me very much. I feel a strong responsibility for it, and in many ways I have to say that I think it is rather scary to have power. We risk making mistakes that directly affect people's everyday lives. In fact, I have a strong humility to that, but what I don't have humility to do is politicians who choose to ignore the situation of weak groups and also choose to pursue other principles and not even engage in dialogue with these groups. For me, and for SV, it was completely inappropriate to go in for a proposal where we were to further clientise a new group, where we were to build a new bureaucracy and subsidize landowners who have actually acted with some greed after the Progress Party has allowed them to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e689	SV opposes the Government Party's proposal for the determination of the redemption sum. The justification shall be the fear of giving market values the basis for pricing. Sees and understands the representative of Thorkildsen that the supplementation rule of 40 p.m. the market price ensures justice for those who land in areas with low plot values, while the stencil rule there would provide prices that would be significantly higher than the market price? If the representative understands this, why reject the SV supplementation rule? Is that what SV means by taking the party of Santas and the weak groups? And then I can't help noticing, since the representative gave a kick to someone who took a stand on Thursday: wasn't it about that time, or maybe a little ahead of it, we saw what SV meant about this, published in newspapers and media too?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e698	If the representative Marthinsen had taken his case-presidency more seriously, possibly if he had been allowed by the Right to do so, he would also have heard that SV was very willing to enter into negotiations to find the best possible solutions. We also gave a clear message directly to the representative Marthinsen about what we thought we could negotiate. He leaned back and did not want to hear, or else he was not allowed to hear. That's the situation. As far as this proposal is concerned, we fear that some Santas will actually not even dare to ask for their land to be redeemed, because they fear that it will end in legal proceedings. The Santa Claus Association has estimated that you might have to pay around NOK 100,000 in case costs just to know what the redemption sum is actually going to be. We thought this was such a terrible proposal that we could not stand behind it, nor subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e705	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e708	I had not dreamt that I would sit in the Stortinget and experience that a government was founded from the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right one day would promote a bill for the Stortinget which is such a serious intervention in private property law and in the freedom of contract of the private parties as today's bill is. A bonding relationship is a tenancy relationship. Ownership rights attached to the plots have not been transferred unless they are an issued joint or the contract should be permanent. This is the simple starting point for the Santa Claus system and for the Santa Claus Act, which should also have been respected by several parties here tonight. The consequence of the simple starting point is that it shouldn't have been opened for redemption, as the majority tonight is going to open up. It is true that there is a safety valve for redemption in today's law, which Storberget had in mind, but it is also a fact that today's law gives the right to compensation under expropriation law. It's the best sign that this is actually a rental relationship, and that a waiver of ownership has to be considered an expropriation-like intervention. That the Workers' Party, and in so far as SV, do not regard ownership and freedom of contract as sacred, as the representative Storberget said, is no bomb. But that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left choose to put themselves on the same line, is simply not to believe. This is not a regulation or a restriction of ownership, as some have claimed here today. This is a massive transfer of ownership from one party to another, at a price far below the basic law § 105. In my opinion, bringing forward the Klöfta judgment, which has been made in the vote, as a kind of proof that this is not unconstitutional, is not sustainable. When the majority points out that the Supreme Court places considerable emphasis on the fact that the view of the Grand Duchy as a legislator in relation to the issue of fundamental law must be crucial, it makes the responsibility of both the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left all the more important, because it will then be these parties which, in reality, betray the Basic Law's understanding of expropriation and compensation. Right chooses to interpret the Constitution so that it is within the limits. It is a bold and great responsibility for a party that both believes to defend ownership and is also a constitutional conservative party. So the majority do not agree to a reintroduction of price regulation. The majority of people today contribute to a massive transfer of property between private parties, and from districts to urban districts, especially in the case of leisure areas. It is a compulsory transfer of private property imposed by the State and indicated by the lot Right. If the price was a crucial question, a discussion of the price issues and the level of prices could take place. There's a discussion the Center Party would like to attend. But a forced redemption for one of the parties is quite different from discussing price regulation. Otherwise, I have to say that I think that this case has received a parodical treatment in Stortinget. The government no longer supports its own bill. So today they choose to shoot at the Advance Party. But here one better say that the Progress Party has at least had the sense to turn in time. The rapporteur believes that this must be followed up with rules that are easy to understand. It's probably a problem that's going to be difficult, not to say impossible. In particular, the relationship with the properties to be associated with industrial activities. One can only imagine the year of income to be taken into account. When gross income is to be taken into account, one shall encourage people with entrepreneurial income to work as least as possible, so that one does not risk falling below 10 pst. and thus can be deprived of what is really one's property? This is not only an interference with ownership and contractual freedom, but also a tax burden, at least if it happens voluntarily. But if it's coercive, it could be tax-free. This means that one here encourages it to happen by coercion and not by voluntary means also for tax reasons. This is also an undermining of claimed rights, it may affect grazing rights and other common rights, in particular in the case of mountain recreational property. The large amount of work that some landowners have done in relation to leisure property in terms of looping, signage and such things can also be a problem. The manner in which this case is handled does not strengthen the confidence of the parties to the government in ownership and freedom of contract. The way in which the Committee has dealt with the matter does not strengthen confidence in the Storting. If the majority today would also vote in favour of the law, but against § 34, which refers just to an exception both for the rural general public and for the agricultural industry, then the chaos is quite complete. I believe that the Labour Party there should clarify its point of view. I will be allowed to address the proposals No. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their excellent work. 12 is going to be drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e736	The representative Marit Arnstad has drawn up and done some good for the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e741	There's something that surprises me about the Center Party. I have seen the development of the Central Party in Norwegian policy over the last 20 years as almost a glider from the right and well over on the left, and with an eagerness to actually contribute to regulating a market in many areas that benefit citizens. It's strange to me that the freedom of contract and property should suddenly be so sacred in the case of the very Santa Claus Act, while in other areas you see the opposite. Then, for example: Odelstingen adopted a new house rent law in 1999, which has an absolute bearing on landowners and housing relationships, the Centre Party was very active and formed a majority with the Workers' Party and SV, among others. in order to regulate rentals, to ensure the proper protection of termination and rental prices and to limit the possibility for owners and owners of land to take the maximum price that a market could possibly allow. What is the background for the fact that it is fully acceptable for the Centre Party, while in the case of plots, it is unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e752	If the agenda here was to regulate a market or regulate a price, we could have talked about it. The centre party has nothing against regulating both in relation to the price mechanism and in relation to the market, but that is not what we are doing here. What we're doing here is we're transferring ownership. And what Knut Storberget and the Workers' Party have always tried to do is to suggest that ownership has not been transferred by the fact that one has entered into a property agreement. Santa Claus -- if it's not issued a joint, if it's not eternal -- is a tenancy. But in this case, you transfer ownership. It could be compared with whether the centre party would go in to allow tenants to take over the ownership of the dwelling they are renting after a certain period of time, or the apartment they are renting. It would probably also be quite difficult for the Workers' Party, if the Workers' Party did not regard ownership as sacred, to swallow.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e757	I just want to replicate with the representative Arnstad in relation to her description of the redemption right. I am aware that the representative is a lawyer and a good detainee of legal rules, etc. Is it now perceived from the centre party team that you do not actually have the right of redemption at all in today's law on emptying, and do you actually see the one that exists as a safety valve? At present, there is already a reasonably comprehensive right of redemption in land consolidation legislation. Now it's getting better. Is it true, then, that the representative Arnstad believes that the set of rules that we have today and that, in fact, for those who have eternal contracts, is a multiplier of 30, is contrary to the Norwegian Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e762	The exercise of the right of redemption in today's law is not a general right of redemption. The right of redemption under paragraph 36 of today's law is a right of redemption in special cases, and there are very special compensation rules attached to that redemption rule. Knut Storberget doesn't get out of it. I am constantly amazed that the Storberget in its contribution presents this as a sort of revolutionary measure in relation to changes in the law, while he now in his line to me presents it as if there were a minor adjustment of a right of redemption that already exists. It's not that simple, and the representative Storberget also knows very well if he thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e767	Multiple people have not drawn in a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e771	I note with satisfaction that the majority of the Judicial Committee endorses the Government's overall objective that as much as possible should be given the opportunity to own their home or cabin. With the legislative changes now being dealt with by Stortinget, a decisive step is being taken towards ensuring the safety and predictability of the party's investment in the house or cabin on fixed land. Contracts for the fastening of land for housing or recreational homes are characterised by their long duration and relate to important social goods. The proposal for the right of redemption and the rules for calculating the sum of the redemptions therefore recognise that the legislator can - and in the circumstances should - further regulate the existing contractual arrangements for land fasteners. The attachment must be considered to be entitled to its share of the capital increase normally enjoyed by the land through long-term construction and use of the land. The special conditions of the mooring, the specific and long-term attachment of the attachment to the plot, as well as a strong need for rules that are practical and non-conflicting, must, as I see it, weigh heavily when rules are given in this area. The proposal submitted by the parties to the government last respects the basic ownership interests in a fair and balanced manner by enabling the owner of the fastening contracts to always demand judgement and to set the redemption sum at 40 p.m. of the crude value less the investments arising from the fixation. This ensures an individual measurement in the individual fixation conditions, including, inter alia: the location of the land is reflected in the redemption sum. As regards the relationship with the Basic Law, it must be assumed that at the time of redemption there is a contractual relationship between parties and landowners, which has been in existence for at least 30 years, and often for a considerable period of time. A broad political majority today argues that the value of the plot that has been built up over the contractual period should, upon redemption, be distributed between the parties as the majority of the law accumulates. The same majority - and I too - argue that the law decision is in line with the Constitution's requirements for legislation. I would point out that this cannot be seen as a matter involving only private interests. With 350 000 fixed-dwelling and recreational housing contracts, and a complex regulatory framework which contributes to conflicts and can be applied to a small extent by the parties without legal advice, it must be said to be essential public interests in the case. Many farms have fixed land as a non-significant part of the income base. Both agricultural and rural policy considerations are in favour of exempting certain fixed-term contracts from the exercise of the right of redemption. The applicable Law on Landings has exemptions for recreational purposes situated on agricultural holdings, and the Government will continue to do so. Another central aspect of the bill is the right to extension. The majority of the parties are old, and many will go out in the years that come. Without a contractual or statutory right to extend, the attachment will have the option of redeeming or terminating the fixation relationship. Therefore, those fasteners who cannot afford to redeem the land should be allowed to extend the fastening contract under the same conditions as before. This ensures the safety and predictability of the parties. The interests of the landowner have been safeguarded by ensuring that the landowner is guaranteed a continuing annual remuneration based on the level of the fixed fee of each contract as a result of the original fastening contract and with regard to the rules of the law governing the fastening charge. For some, the upsizing of the fastening charge imposed by some fastening agreements after 1 January 2002 has become a heavy, and not least unexpected, financial burden. However, when I do not think that these agreements should be reintroduced, it is because I want a balanced set of rules that also safeguard the interests of the landowners. However, after a one-off promise in accordance with the individual fastening agreement and the limitations of the law, there will be regulation only after the index of consumer prices for fixed-dwelling contracts relating to residential and leisure buildings. In other words, in the long term, there will be a predictable system for regulating the fastening charge, which provides security and stability for the fastener and his family. The legislative proposal presented to the Odelstinget by the government parties takes care of the various interests in a balanced manner, while contributing to a substantial and long-term simplification of the rules, and can provide more clarification and predictability about the Feast Institute than we have experienced in recent years. Let me add, since I have employees who have put a considerable amount of work into this law, that the law must be perceived to be legally complicated. The social conditions that lie behind the law are varied and complex, and it must be in everyone's interest to live in the time we now live in, starting from the historical reasons for the amount of party relationships, to try to find a balanced and fair solution. I believe that the balanced and fair solution has been presented by the government parties today, and I am also pleased to note that the Labour Party will give this its subsidiary support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e800	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e803	I have three issues I want the Minister of Justice's assessment of. As the debate now stands, it appears that the exceptions proposed by the Government regarding agricultural and general government redemptions do not have a majority. How does the Minister of Justice assess the whole of this proposal if so? I have to ask the Minister about this, since the government fraction will not talk to us about the realities of the matter. Point 2: The Central Party has tabled a proposal on the general government, proposal No. 11, that the amount of the sale is to be distributed in the same way as today's fixed charges are to be allocated. It is a proposal that the Labour Party will support. How does the Minister of Justice assess this? Finally, does the Minister of Justice see any possibility of establishing an even simpler and less bureaucratic discretionary system, which makes it cheaper and faster to set the price of the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e812	The first question about the whole, I guess I just expressed it in my post, in the sense that I referred to the balanced relationship between attachment and landowners by using the 40 pst rule. But I also gave a clear reason why the exemptions for agricultural property, which exist in the current law, are part of the same whole. It is indisputably explained by me, and I would like to make it so clear that if these exceptions are not included, at least you will be able to talk about a considerable transfer of wealth from District Norway to cities. That's an attitude I can't stand for. In terms of discretion, which is the theme I'm now raising, I'm going to say there's a lot of ways to make it easy. You can follow the so-called mercenary. It is also the case that the rules on the equal treatment of men and women do not prevent the parties from agreeing on even more reasonable solutions to disputes, such as: arbitration, or the agreement of a valuer who may fix the fixation fee or the redemption sum.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e819	I will not hold the Council of State responsible for the fact that the government parties will not treat the contributions of the landowners with the contributions of parties to the property. The councils wanted a completely different model. The council was very concerned that the government's main goal is firm, even, as I understand it, with a change from a clean multiplication table to a judgement for everyone. I understand from the Right's point of view that they point out that the change is due to conditions that have emerged in the Storting's relatively short consultation as a treatment period. I then assume that these things were matters that the government obviously failed to achieve in its slightly longer consultation and evaluation process. Does the Council of State feel that the procedural capacity and the case investigation in the Ministry of Justice are inadequate or need improvements?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e830	There is nothing to say about either the procedural capacity or the ability to do jobs in the Ministry of Justice, but the law of Santa Claus, when it is developed, reveals in its character a process that is both legal and social complex and complex. Then I think that everyone, including state councils, should take that insight inward. When government parties then take the insight inwards, in agreement with me as the Council of State, to ensure that a proposal captures more of the reality than what we were able to do with our best ability, then I have no problem putting myself behind it. Several representatives have suggested that when something is complex, it is better to admit it. And here's something to learn. The alternative has been that this law has been lying and sleeping. I have taken it up from the drawer so it will not continue to lie down and sleep any longer, and to find a balanced solution in the relationship between the fasteners and the fasteners. The total result behind that is what I stand for, and I've also expressed that in my main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e837	Some parties, following the changes adopted by the majority of Odelsting tonight, will be able to get out of difficult party contracts. However, among other things: in cities and press areas, many parties will have problems getting out of contracts, because the redemption sum will be too high, and also because possible legal cases can make it so difficult for them to be economically viable that there will be an inappropriate alternative. We are very concerned about that group, because they were not remedied by the government proposal initially, nor by the treatment in the Storting. Will the Council of State take some special initiatives forward to look at the situation of that group? And can the Council of State in particular take responsibility for the landowner over whom the State can actually have direct influence, namely the Information Society's fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e846	In my main post, I have explained the view of the adjustment that applied to land regulation clauses, which are a minority of party conditions, but which are quite many on the Information Service's fund. That's right. I have drawn attention to the fact that there is a proposal here which is being assessed, and which is a nuance in relation to what we have had before, and which is quite important in relation to how expensive it will be. And then I've made it clear that we want upregulation once. Then we get a change in the regime, so we get a price adjustment. I have said that in the longer term it will create better relationships. When it comes to the complexity of this, we get to take it further. I have learned since I started working on this matter in the Bondevik I administration that when you grab something here, something new will appear. I'm a politician who likes to take it with me, and also learn from it and get that knowledge with me. And I'm going to have that attitude still. But today I feel that what we're presenting here is a fair deal that's fair to landowners and relative to parties. That is my intention and that is the intention of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e857	The councils were in their intervention concerned that he wanted a balanced and fair solution, and he pointed out among other things. to the exceptions contained in Section 34, that if they do not receive a majority, it would mean a transfer of property, for example: from district to town. Now there is a risk that there will be a majority voting against the exceptions in section 34 here today, and with that state council also said in its reply to Storberget, does that mean that he will then recommend the government parties to vote against the title of the law and the law in its entirety, so that he gets the law back?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e864	I perceive that nothing would please the representative Arnstad more than to have the law sent back and avoid any improvement. I am sure that the majority of the Biggest will make sure to avoid such a situation, but it is my duty to account for the whole that exists on the part of the government parties and government. That whole thing has been absolutely clear, both on the solution to the redemption sum, on the possibility of extending fastening agreements, as several speakers have, among other things. the representative of Storberget, and on the existing derogation in relation to agricultural property. So it's a whole. I'm assuming that that's also the situation that will be the result when we're over the voting. I do not want with this reply to contribute anything to the representative Arnstad's attempt to send this matter out again. I have not experienced this as the basic tone, but I realized that I was asked a fair question by the representative of Storberget, that it would be a clear situation before we were able to vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e873	It was actually SV's Inga Marte Thorkildsen who caused me to take another line. I fully agree with the representative of Thorkildsen that we have to be concerned about combating the culture of greed, we have to be concerned that we have to take care of the weakest, so that we can lift some of these Santa Claus conditions. I want to challenge the Minister of Justice: Is it the case that the Government believes that the bill you now seem to adopt raises more of the Santa Claus than what the old law would do, and that it is also cheaper? In that case, SV would get more by voting in favour of the right of redemption that is actually there, even though it is not in the opinion of many people. That's the one. The second is that I would like to challenge the Minister of Justice once more in relation to the issue of the general government and the proposal that the Central Party has made regarding the distribution of the revenue from any sale, that they should be distributed in such a way that they are distributed, which is also the subject of the Workers' Party. Is it a matter of time to work for from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e883	I see, of course, the Government's proposals and the Government's proposals that lie here today, which are clearly better, because they introduce a right of redemption, they introduce an opportunity that does not exist today, and they also introduce a nuance. The percentage means that someone who could get too expensive in relation to the actual value comes out cheaper. To give an example: you live in a big city and were unhappy at the time you signed the agreement, you also get something more with the 40 pst rule. I feel that this adds up to a regime that we can stand for. With regard to the question of mountain government that has been raised, it has arrived late in the process, and I do not want anything against having it sent to me because I can work on it in a proper way and come back. I understand the main point behind this, namely to ensure the activities that the various bodies have been able to carry out, which must also be ensured by any legislative changes that are being made here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e890	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e893	The first time I met the debate on the arrangements for a Santa Claus party was when I was at home in Asker in contact with residents in a larger residential area that had a party room, and where the owner of the area was the Information Society's fund. The information society's fund was set up in its time to manage properties that had belonged from an old age to the individual office of the pastor and which gave income to the pastor. So it's a very old system. The large residential areas in Asker that I mentioned were built with four- and two-man dwellings and some one-man dwellings in the 1950s. One of the areas is a large area of two- and four-man housing, where those who attached the plots, on well-trained roads, water and sewers, and processed the plots themselves, which was referred to in the debate earlier today as being common. In other words, they increased the value of the plots quite considerably. When someone says that the ceremony is a scheme that has expired, I am inclined to agree. Although the Information Society's fund manages the properties in a relatively good way, a well asked question as to whether it is right that income to the Church should happen in this way, a scheme that, if one extends very far, might be comparable to a housekeeper's arrangement. In addition, the management of the Fund's funds and properties is also based on principles and guidelines which the Ministry has recently outlined in St.meld. No 14 for 2000-2001, Stock Exchange and Cathedral - About the economy of the Norwegian Church. So it's not the Santa Clauss and their needs and desires that have been founded, but the Church's need for the economy that has been the basis for managing and operating the fund. I'll be quick to say that here we're all at Stortinget alike. It was a large majority in the Storting as in Innst. S. No 187 for 2000-2001 said: "The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left, will also underline the need for the effective operation of the Fund, and that business and market assessments are used as a basis for management and operation." So it was the Stortinget who said that they would charge a party fee, and possibly redemption, which would have been considered market-oriented. So here, it is the fund's expenditure and revenue that are important, not the landowners' allowance. This has turned out to be quite high prices for redemption in the area to which I referred. And it doesn't make matters any better that most people who live in the area today are pensioners and have had these homes since they were built. As is well known, ash is not among the cheapest areas in the country in terms of land prices, and this has led to the fact that many people have had problems redeeming the land if they have been offered it. This post is not an attack on the Information Service's fund, but a proof that the fasteners system is an old scheme that should have expired. We have now come a long way with the treatment we have today. Several of today’s speakers have pointed to the unfairness of the fact that the prices of parties under the legislation in 2002 rose sharply for some. This was one of the reasons why the debate on parties really began to roll, and that most people got their eyes up for how difficult this was, and that the protest against parties increased. I think we in the Labour Party can be well pleased when the night's debate is over. We have come as far as it is possible to go in a long years fight against a scheme that should have been put in place a long time ago. There's reason to congratulate all of us when we're done with the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e922	In the context of the 1996 treatment of the new Law on Landfills, the Right considered that only homeowners should have a right of redemption, but also a right of redemption for recreational purposes was proposed. So the redemption of a leisure party is given in today's law on a slightly different basis than for a home party. Right-wing support for the legislative changes to be adopted today must therefore also be seen in the light of what we did in the 1996 reading. With the proposal that one is now making, we are making some exceptions to the right of redemption for recreational parties. From the point of view of the Right, it is important that people are given the opportunity to own housing and land, while the redemption of recreational property is subject to restrictions where accumulators are active in agriculture. This last one is particularly important, because many in the districts have based parts of the total income on just stuck. This is a very important part of the whole and needs to be in place to get a good enough law. Right-wing support in 1996 to the majority of the Committee, which stated that it would calculate the redemption sum: "The majority are concerned that those who have to dispose of property by expropriation-like measures will receive full compensation for this. The majority believe that the rules on the amount of the redemption sum reasonably safeguard the interests of both the fixing and the fastener. The majority are aware that it may be difficult to determine any real market price for the properties to be redeemed, for such properties there is often no traditional market. This must be taken into account when determining the redemption sum." It is therefore important, in my view, to hold on to the fact that there is no such market for fasteners as it does for new and uninhabited plots put out for sale. In my view, therefore, the supplementary rule now included in Section 37, of 40 p.m., is in line with the view of the majority in the Committee in 1996. So I'd like to say a little bit about state opinion. In state opinion, there are today some important rights of use, and I have received several enquiries about what will happen to these when we now open the door for the owners of cabins on state grounds to be able to redeem their land. I would first like to refer to what is in the committee position: "The members of the Committee from the Right and the Christian People's Party believe, however, that celebrations that lie in a public opinion place almost the same restrictions on the use and management of the general government as owners would do. Furthermore, these members consider that any disadvantages to the use of the general government resulting from the exercise of the right of redemption/self-contained land may be reduced by including clauses relating, for example, to pasturage and fences in the agreements on the transfer of land. Such issues may arise, in particular, by resolving point fixings. These members refer to the fact that, where necessary, detailed rules may be given on the basis of paragraph 36, fifth paragraph, point (b). To further clarify our view, it is that a redemption of land in a government opinion should not alter or exclude the rights of use that are already in the area. A road right, right to graze, reindeer or similar shall also be respected for new landowners. Anchors redeeming an empty area around the cabin cannot set up fences or make arrangements in other ways that prevent the exercise of such rights of use. So it's not as the nations today describe it, that the proposal to allow the redemption of festal notes on the general public implies a privatisation of the general government. The 5,000 cabins in question are already private, and since rights of use cannot be exceeded by new owners of plots, there is also no mention of fragmentation in the general government as claimed by some. Nor do we want to weaken the operating base of the controllers, and we would like to see the central party send over its proposal, so that it can be handled in a good way by the Government. The right was not the driver of last year's Government's order for changes to the Landfill Act. Now that we support the Government's proposal, with some important adjustments, it is primarily because we believe that this will provide a fair solution for both landowners and parties. That is why, like several previous speakers here tonight, I will also express a great scepticism for the Progress Party's handling of the issue of redemption rights. Last year, the Progress Party was an avid champion of the decision that was taken. I recall that André Kukkestad of this pulpit last February said, "We believe that a redemption should be a right for all the parties." The same could be said that Kukkestad has also said as late as May 22nd this year. But the Progress Party has turned around, and we must, of course, respect the fact that they are now in principle opposed to the exercise of the right of redemption, for which they have been in the past, even in the 1996 legislative process. The Workers' Party and Knut Storberget have several times wanted to make changes to the Landfill Act which, in the view of Right, would lead to an unreasonablely low redemption price - contrary to the Basic Law § 105. When the Workers' Party has now signalled subsidiary support for the Government's proposal, with some changes that make it possible to use discretion, this means that in my view, the Workers' Party has to go back on some of its most critical outcomes against the Government's handling and proposals in this matter. The Santa party is complicated and complex, and I am pleased that today's debate seems to clarify, and that both parties and landowners can have the necessary predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e965	For a long time, landowners have been living with great uncertainty. I hope the majority tonight can help to create peace and predictability for the country's landowners for a long time to come. I feel a need to remember what is the basis of the Workers' Party's commitment to Santa Claus. Our exposure is linked to people's right to own a home, the security they need, the security that they should be financially able to sit with the house. I think that many have taken lightly on exactly these questions. Santa Claus is a permanent arrangement, where the parties have made large investments in the house and tied up large amounts of money here. In many ways they are tied to hands and feet. They can't, as the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen so brilliantly described it, "take the house or sit on your back and move". If there's a conflict with a party, they usually have no alternative, because their house is on that plot, and they have to figure out the price of the rental. Nor should one forget that once the house has been traveled, the landowner has not really expected to get back the right to dispose of the property. That is the practical consequence. The remover made a choice when the attachment contract was entered into. He chose an annual income and in many cases accepted a relatively low rent. He was not tricked or seduced into it, as it might almost seem that someone thinks, having followed in the last week and month's debate, at least if one has read the newspapers, and in particular the tabloids. In some of these tabloids it is also produced as if all fixators are some cynical property speculators when they are now given the opportunity to redeem their plots, landowners who should hurry and sell the properties and get the profit. It is produced as if there are fainting sums they can collect. That's not what this is about! It is a matter of giving the parties the opportunity of social protection, that this group of people should be given security in relation to the fact that they should have the opportunity for the future to sit with their property, their home. It is not a matter of charging them a large economic gain when we now open up a general right of redemption. In fact, 250,000 plotters will have the opportunity to sit with the dwelling. Put on the head are Santa Claus in many ways today's housekeeper contracts. In the Workers' Party's programme for the period 2001-2005, we say that the Workers' Party wants the owner of the dwelling to have the opportunity to own the land on which he has built his dwelling. The system of fasteners should therefore be terminated. This has always been the basis for the Labour Party's proposals in this Chamber, which we have promoted in the past, and which we are also promoting today. The Labour Party therefore voted against the new legal provisions which entered into force on 1 January 2002. This amendment has removed the regulation of prices in order to allow fixed rentals to be determined in line with market developments or where the agreements so permit. The consequence of this is that many people, not least older people, have received a fee increase that involves multiple doubling. In the most extreme cases, the rental has gone from NOK 1000 per person. to be up to NOK 30000 per year. years. It has given a large unsocial impact and has claimed a level they had never dreamed of or provided for the day on which they entered into this contract. The government has now carried out an evaluation of the Santa Claus parties, and I want to give the Council of State Dørum tribute for having listened to all the country's Santa Claus parties, which have expressed how unsocial this is, and how hard this has been. I would like to pay tribute to the fact that he has made price adjustments, that he has proposed the introduction of a general right of redemption, and that he has proposed the possibility of extending the contracts. The working party has better solutions to this, not least in terms of price. But we have chosen, as opposed to SV, to support the Government's proposal in principle, precisely because the most important thing is that you get security for the country's landowners, and that you get a redemption scheme that is good for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e988	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e991	There is a lot in this proposal to change the law on the land, which today, or tonight, is agreed, which could be much better. At the same time, we see here a very important principle, especially from the parties' side; on the right of redemption, on price regulation and on the right to proceed with a fast-track contract. In the past, the Labour Party has also, in many rounds, had to compromise to improve the Santa Claus. We have had to compromise to prevent the worst results of the Santa Claus Act, as proposed by the Government and the Government Party. Among other things, we have included a ceiling on the fastening fee to prevent the worst impacts. I hope that another large number of people can improve what's going on at this point in time, even more so, but this is as far as it's possible to make a lot of today's big numbers. I am surprised that SV does not include these improvements for the blank fasteners. I want to focus my search light on a relationship that has been very committed to, that is, the issue of the right of redemption in public opinion. State opinion is state property that entire Norway, and especially large parts of Bygde-Noreg, have the right to use. This is directly housed in the mountains--equal to the right to hunting and fishing, the right to use pastures, seats, farmland and forest. The corrections are managed by the mountain government after the mountains. All hunting and fishing income and 50 pst. the Party fees on cabins are returned to the districts through the administration of the mountain government. All these funds are placarded to the general public in the form of general organisation. In the event of the sale for reasons of general interest or the right to redeem all the cabins and seats, the sum of the redemptions will go directly to the treasury - from District Norway, from the mountain government system, away from the annual organisation of the general public - a dramatic annual weakening, which gives modest income to the treasury. In order to avoid this, it is important that any salssum may also be returned to the mountain government. A proposal will be sent to the Center Party, which was delivered here tonight, to impose a distribution of the sum of the sales, as the fixed fee is now. The Labour Party will support that proposal. No. State Council Dørum said that he would like to see the proposal sent over, so that he could continue working on it, but I think it is important that it is brought up to prevent the negative outcome of a right of redemption in the general government opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1006	The Christian People's Party knows that many people who rent land for housing and cabins are strongly linked to the property. Being self-owner will give them security, and that means a lot both for the sense of security and for economic predictability. But we also have a deep respect for ownership and for the freedom of contract. It has therefore been imperative to ensure that a right of redemption is accompanied by rules for setting the redemption price that provides justice, both to parties and to accorators. Those who now have to sell property to parties shall have full compensation. It is important for me to point out that the Government's proposal on redemption rights in Ot.prp. No 41 came as a result of pressure from the Progress Party. The representative Kukkestad, who has been the spokesman of the Prom Party in the Santa Claus case, has often expressed a positive opinion on the right of redemption. In his debate on changes to the Law on Santa Claus on 18 February 2003, he said: "We believe that a redemption should be a right for all the parties." In a press release sent out on 21 January last year, he stated that the Advance Party and the government parties have "agreed today to extend the right to the redemption of the ceremony". But now both Kukkestad and the Advance Party have turned around and are going against the right of redemption. The lot has given way to strong lobby groups representing the landowners. In my opinion, it is somewhat surprising that the Progress Party, which claims to represent most people, has been influenced by the capital forces in this case until those degrees have been affected. It is also alarming that the Progress Party, by proposing that the Supreme Court assess the constitutional legality of the proposals, will deprive both itself and the Grand Duchy of substantial political power. Proposing the question of the constitutionality of a draft law on the Supreme Court would appear to be exceptional in the light of Storting’s practice. In the past, at least in the 20th century, the Storting has believed that it is up to the Storting as the legislative authority itself to decide on the understanding of the Constitution and apply its provisions. The Progress Party has traditionally been committed to ruling the courts, including: by providing for minimum penalties. When it comes to leaving to the courts to assess issues of a significant political nature, it can be asked whether the Progress Party has also changed its position on this point. I have to say that a political party with a certain core of political predictability is preferable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1020	Several representatives from the Workers' Party have been up and very surprised that SV chose to do as we did, but there were several reasons for this. I have discussed some of them - the principle of market price, and that the first proposal was not less than 40 pst. of the land value at the time of redemption, which was totally inappropriate for SV to agree to, because it could mean 100 pst. empty value and was a completely hopeless proposal. The representatives of the Workers' Party call for peace on the Law on Santa Claus in the future. But I don't think the Labour Party gets its will there. There's going to be a lot of trouble about the Santa Claus Act in the future. There are going to be many legal cases - completely independent of SV's possible contribution to creating trouble on these issues, as there are a good number of parties who have been sacrificed in this case, and who have not received any help at all. There is also something that is not pointed out, and that is going to create problems for the partyers. This applies to the time of redemption. You have to be entitled to redemption after 30 years of fasting. Then you have to be able to have it every ten years. For some people, it might mean that they never get rid of the land, because they're just so old that they don't have the opportunity to live at home long enough, so they can get the land redeemed. It worries me. I wish it had been possible to obtain a redemption right that could also be renewed every five years, as the Workers' Party and SV have proposed. It's worrying that a majority now chooses to focus most on those who are going to be helped by this, and encourage calmness without taking into account that there are some people who actually don't get help at all, and who can risk having to leave their homes. They can risk having to sell their cabins, or not even sell their homes, because there's so much uncertainty about the market, and because it's so expensive in some cases--and so they're sitting in a cat pen they don't get out of. That's why I don't think there's going to be any peace on this matter in the future, and in any case, SV is going to do what we can to ensure a better solution for all Santas, hopefully with a new number of large amounts after the next choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1031	It is approaching evening, or night probably, and you may not have to do this more than is most necessary. Nevertheless, I have an urgent need to say something. I let myself be fascinated when I hear the representatives from the Right and Christian People's Party talk about the Advance Party and predictability. Of course, you can do that with pondus, not least with regard to the procedure we've seen in the media based on the performances and recordings of representatives of the Right and Christian People's Party. You have to listen to experienced mountain people or experienced politicians. But maybe you shouldn't throw a stone when you're sitting in a glass house. Maybe you should clean up yourself first. But it is allowed to try and fail. I also record that the government parties have moved a lot away from what was the bearer elements when the proposition was presented, but you look at it with great tolerance, and you are satisfied with the result. Then you have to be very satisfied. Then I have to be allowed to comment on the post of the representative Thorkildsen, who fascinates me as much every time. The representative of Thorkildsen has the amazing ability to profile almost every single case on his own. It would have been even more impressive if you had been equally concerned with the principles that you have been self-profiling from here. You use it as a reason that it has to do with your own and your social conscience. Yes, you have to respect that, and that's a good thing. The representative is also concerned with the power of being a magnificent representative, and the consequences of what you do. I assume that the representative Thorkildsen was thinking about before she came here. Of course, there's something that everyone has to take inwards. If you put up and you're a candidate for Stortinget, it has to do with taking power. It's about taking the responsibility that lies there. If you're in doubt about that, you shouldn't try to come here, at my discretion. Each representative will find out for himself. Then you also say that for SV, it's a goal to work and take care of the weak in society. I also respect that, but I think the paradox for SV is that SV depends on the weak groups. Without them there had been no element at all, there had been no relationship and no reason to keep SV. Honor be SV, which should continue the job in order to seek to keep up as many weak as possible. There lies the basis of choice and what is the foundation for SV to exist at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1045	This is a last chance for the Socialist Left Party to see the realities of this matter, primarily to prevent much of the horror propaganda that is now being prepared in relation to what can be adopted here tonight. It's important. It's incredible to me that the Socialist Left Party can be so reprehensible in relation to the proposed amendment to the law of Santa Claus that now seems to be adopted, with the motive that you have, which I think is honestly meant to be - the Workers' Party is also concerned about many Santas. But you're not willing to take the step that the majority will take today. Arild Ruus Simensen, Secretary and Head of the Feast of Santa Claus, said in Today's Business June 11th this year: "This agreement is, after all, better at more points than today's law on the land." Exposed Santas on both Rena and Ashker, or Else and Hans Kjensli, who have been referred to, have said quite clearly, at least this! We are basically only left with Trygve Hegnar from the Finanz newspaper, which on 11 June states that landowners and landowners should continue to live on with the law that was enacted on 1 January 2002. It can be impossible, then, for such a company SV to want to end up in! It can't be that you shouldn't help, because you don't get what you want optimally. The Labour Party will never go away from a path where we have the opportunity to help quite broad groups of the population, a broad group of the population that we have been very concerned about. Nor does it mean that we leave this arena in many ways and say that this matter has now been resolved once and for all. I think it would be a very good condition for the further work to show that we are able to compromise, that we are able to find solutions, and that it is actually the best way to show that we are also burning for those who fall outside. For me, it is totally unintelligible that SV can do what they are doing now. You choose a right of redemption that is worse, more expensive, and that embraces fewer people. Then I'll use No Marte Thorkildsen's own words that here it doesn't help to shut up, when we can actually act as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1063	It's been using expressions like it's getting long at night. Personally, I think there is a reason to stress that I actually think it is about to brighten up the day. That's, I think, on the basis of the signals that have come from this pulpit today, reason to look at a sunrise, because here there's a long way to agree on important principles, which will have major consequences for large groups of plotters and fortifications. Yes, it shines day, but not everyone wants to be in the sunrise. Some people want to sleep in their sleep and not take in the world of reality, such as. The representative of Storberget just described it. It bears witness to political wisdom, and it bears witness to the fact that taking responsibility is also seen to involve making compromises. I want, from the pulpit, to underline just this which has now been said by the Grandberg side. It's those who can find solutions and implement them, who represent a policy for the benefit of most people, not those who talk and demonstrate and show reluctance when it comes to collecting up. Then, in relation to the proposal from the Central Party that goes to the State Forest and the revenue from the sale in public opinion, I would like to express that in the Christian People's Party we also share their interests in that matter, and the Council of State has said that he is interested in this being sent to get proper treatment, as the chairman of the Committee, from the Right, has stated. In the Christian People's Party, we are of the same opinion. We want this matter dealt with properly, without necessarily making a decision on it, so that I too would recommend the representative Arnstad to turn this into a transmission proposal to the Government. I believe, to conclude, that the decision that we are making here in the light of tomorrow's dawn is a decision that many will be pleased with and that ensures good conditions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1074	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 650]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1089	This setting has no cures in the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours. Under Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that Odelstinget nevertheless deal with this matter no. No objections have been raised to the President's proposal, and the President sees it as a matter of order.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1094	First, in the context of the revised national budget, the legal fee has increased dramatically, and now one also wants to increase the passport fee, not only by taking over the increase in the legal fee, but also by increasing the fee from one legal fee to 1.17 legal fees. The price of a passport will then increase about 30 pst. after 1 July. Passports are the only valid travel document outside the Nordic region, and it is regrettable that one sees it as having to have a relatively useful economy in order to have the necessary travel documents in order to have the opportunity to have a holiday or to travel abroad at all. The Progress Party does not see any need for this increase and will therefore oppose this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1101	I'm going to be brief and just say that we're joining up with the Progress Party that's now led. We are also opposed to the increase in the passport fee that is proposed so that the passport fee now comes to almost NOK 1000 per person. adult passports.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1106	No more speakers have requested the floor of the supplementary agenda. [[Footing, see page 655]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1119	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-3, as well as in the case on the supplementary agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1153	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1163	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1173	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per Erik Monsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 2, from Heidi Grande Røys on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 3 and 4 are not there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1273	The Party of Advances and the Coastal Party have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1384	The President will vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "In Law 26 May 1999 No. 14 on taxes on wealth and income the following amendment is made:In the fourth sentence of the second paragraph of Section 5-15, the fourth sentence is deleted.IIThe change in I enters into force as from 1 July 2004. [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1491	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1579	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1657	Finally, the President will vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: "In Law 6 May 1988 No. 22 on compulsory pay during the period of leave is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 3 is replaced by the following: Employees are entitled to pay and other benefits from the employer for the first time after the start of the leave. [[(1) (Employer period)]] The employer’s period runs from the first working day the leave covers. Length of the employer’s period (erc) 3 working days in the case of full leave and at least 40 pst. reduction of working time.d) 8 working days at less than 40 pst. Reduction of working time.Relaxed fire, accidents or natural circumstances do not apply to an employer’s period. The obligation to pay after the first subparagraph ceases during periods in which the worker would still have been free of duty or absence, and runs from the day on which the work would have been resumed if the permit had not taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1692	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1702	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1709	In the course of the debate, 12 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 3-5, by Mr Kijkestad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 6 and 13, by Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, enriched proposal No. 7, by Finn Kristian Marthinsen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 8-11, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Center Party. Proposals Nos. 1-6 is included in the adjustment, while the proposals No. 7-13 is distributed in the hall. Proposal No. 12 is drawn. Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: "The government asks the government to consider alternative measures to remedy the situation of those who have had such a large impact on the changes in the fixation fee that they have problems keeping their own housing." Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: "The Government is asked to go through the law and promote the necessary proposals so that the word "fixed fee" can be replaced by the word "rental" in all regulations." Proposal No. 9, from the Center Party, it's like: "The Government requests the setting up of an independent expert committee to assess the relationship between the Government's proposed redemption rights for landowners and the Constitutional Act § 105." Proposal No. 10, from the Center Party, it says: "The decision asks the Government, on the basis of an evaluation of the effects of the current law on the land, to propose changes to the law on the fastening of land so that owners of dwellings or cabins can be protected against unreasonable increases in the fastening charge." Proposal No. 11, from the Center Party, it says: "The government is asking the Government to ensure that the revenue of State Forest as a result of the redemption of the principals in the general government is distributed in the same way as the income of State Forest from fixed charges in the general government today." Proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party, says: "The decision asks the Government to instruct the Information Society's Fund and State Forest so that the fee charged in the party contracts where OVF and State Forest are parties can be set at a maximum of $4,000 per measure of land, instead of $9,000 as today." [[OVF]] These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, reads: "With reference to the Basic Law § 83, Stortinget Höjesterett asks for a consideration of the following in relation to the Basic Law § 97 and 105:1. It would be contrary to the Basic Law to introduce a right for parties to be able to demand the redemption of the fastener without the agreement of the landowner in relation to existing fasteners.2. It would be contrary to the Basic Law if any sum of redemptions were to be legalised to a certain number of times the fixation fee without an individual price fixing in which other factors are also weighted." This proposal shall be sent to the Grand Duchy for consideration. Before we go to voting on the vote, the President will raise proposal No. 8, from the Central Party, on repatriation to the Government. The proposal reads as follows: "Ot. pp. No 41 on the Law amending the Law of 20 December 1966 No. 106 on Santa Claus etc., sent back to the Government." [[2003-2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1802	The President will first address the proposals. 2 and 6, and first of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: "In the Law of 20 December 1996 No. 106 on land retention is amended as follows:New § 5a is replaced by:Agreement on the attachment of land to residential and leisure buildingsAfter the law has been enacted, no agreement can be made on the attachment of land to residential or leisure buildings. If so, it is not binding on the parties. Where one of the parties departs from the agreement, the non-proprietary party shall be liable for the loss of the fixer, if the fixer is not guilty of loss. However, the agreement is binding if the fixer has taken up work on the land, but the non-proprietary party can then at any time claim the land to be redeemed.§ 2nd sentence of the first paragraph of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: For new fastenings, the contract shall state the purpose for which the empty is attached and the empty value shall be disclosed."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1830	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: "In the Law of 20 December 1996 No. 106 on land retention is amended as follows:New § 5a is replaced by:Agreement on the attachment of land to residential buildingsThere can be no agreement on the attachment of land to residential buildings after the law has been put into force. If so, it is not binding on the parties. Where one of the parties departs from the agreement, the non-proprietary party shall pay the damages for the loss of the attachment, if the attachment is in the loss. However, the agreement is binding if the attachment has taken up work on the land, but the non-proprietary party can then at any time claim the land to be redeemed.§ 2nd sentence of the first paragraph of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: For new fasteners, the contract shall state whether the fixed liability is empty for leisure or empty for other purposes, and the empty value shall be disclosed." The Labour Party has notified that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1875	The Progress Party and the Center Party have notified that they are going against the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1930	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 1 by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, and it is first voted on this proposal. The proposal reads as follows: "§ 15 shall be replaced by the following:Regulation of the fastening chargeWhen land is attached to residential and leisure buildings, each party may require that the fastening charge be regulated in accordance with the change in the value of the money since the fastening contract was concluded. If the parties have undoubtedly agreed that the fixed fee should remain the same, or if they have agreed to a lower level of regulation than that resulting from the change in monetary value, this agreement applies instead. Where the fixed charge has been regulated on or after 1 January 2002, the party may re-regulate in accordance with the first sentence before 1 January 2006.For fixed conditions other than land for residential and recreational buildings, each party may charge the contractual fixed fee regulated in accordance with the change in the monetary value in time since the firm agreement was concluded, unless they have undoubtedly agreed that the fixed fee shall remain unchanged or they have agreed otherwise. If the parties do not agree on a new fixation fee and they have not agreed or are not agreed on a different decision, the decision will be taken under the discretion. However, the agreement cannot provide for more frequent regulation than every year. Where charging regulation depends on the requirement of one of the parties, the claim may relate only to future dates. Where a fixation fee by law or by agreement is to be regulated in accordance with the change in monetary value, the regulation shall be in accordance with the evolution of the consumer price index of the Central Bureau of Statistics. [[calculated]] In order to regulate since the fastening agreement was entered into in the fastening relationship before 1865, a fixed charge shall be regulated according to the evolution of the consumer price index from 1865."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e1961	Then it is voted over the setting § 15. The President has understood that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left now support the vote subsidiaryly. The party of progress and the centre party are against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2023	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2066	Mr Storberget has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2069	I will be allowed to recommend the Workers' Party's Group to vote in favour of this whole paragraph and so secure and also take responsibility for the adoption of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2074	Here SV has announced that they are going against the third paragraph, and the Progress Party is going against the whole paragraph. Center Party here supports this setting. Paragraph 34, first and second paragraphs, first and second paragraphs. So the progress party is against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2089	It is contested by the third paragraph of Paragraph 34. Here is the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2103	It is contested by the fourth paragraph of Section 34. Here the Progress Party has announced that they are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2135	The party of progress and the centre party are against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2171	There are two different proposals here, both for the first paragraph. That is proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. And that's rich proposal No. 7, from the Right and Christian People's Party. This proposal replaces the first paragraph of the vote. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The first paragraph of Section 37 shall be replaced by the following:In the event of the redemption of land which is permanently attached to a dwelling or holiday home, the sum of the redemption shall be 25 times the annual fixation fee after regulation in accordance with the change in the monetary value of the redemption period, unless a smaller redemption sum is agreed."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2192	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right and Christian People's Party, which replaces the first paragraph of the suspension. The proposal reads as follows: "In the Law of 20 December 1996 No. 106 on land fastening is amended as follows: § 37, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: In case of the redemption of land that has been attached to a dwelling or holiday home, the redemption sum shall be 30 times the annual fixation fee after regulation at the time of redemption, unless a smaller redemption sum is agreed. However, unless otherwise agreed, each party may require that the amount of land set aside for an unlimited period of time without the right of cancellation for the non-seat attachment be 40 per cent of the land value at the time of redemption, less the value of the land added by the attachment to the land with its own measures or supplements to measures taken by others. Santa Claus must not be set higher than the space can be sold if it is allowed to set up only the house(s) that is on the plot." The President has understood this so that the Workers' Party is now supporting the suspension - and therefore also the proposal for the enriched § 37 first paragraph - subsidiaryly, while the Socialist Left Party is moving towards the first paragraph. So we're going to vote first over the first term. The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2211	Paragraph 37, second and third paragraphs, are addressed to voting. The Progress Party and the Center Party are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2256	The party of progress and the centre party are against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2280	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2299	The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Center Party are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2313	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Progress Party and the Center Party to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2325	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2356	The Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2369	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2383	I forgot to press. I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2390	The correct votes will be 48 votes in favour and 21 votes against. Thus the title of the law and the law as a whole are accepted. The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-15-lower.ana.ud1255e2403	There is no record. The President wants everyone to have a good summer, since this is the last public meeting before the holiday.
