ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e45	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e48	On behalf of the representatives of André Kvakkestad, Karin S. Woldseth, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to propose an amendment to Law No 8 April 1981. 7 on children and parents - in order to prevent a parent, if the parent kills the other parent, from being automatically granted the parent's right to share children.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e53	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e67	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e74	Today, the police are placing very many issues of competition crime because the rules of the penal code are complicated and pose interpretative problems. This is worrying. Enrichment at the expense of creditors is unacceptable and involves a distortion of competition that cannot be accepted. The amendments to Chapter 27 of the Criminal Code on Indebtedness are aimed at facilitating the practice of the Code and thereby contributing to the more effective fight against economic crime. It has also been an objective to make the rules of Chapter 27 more comprehensible to those against which the provisions are addressed. This also justifies legal simplification and clarification. The limits on which offences are punishable are broadly maintained in line with the law in force. However, some important adjustments are made in Chapter 27 of the Criminal Code. Several of the provisions currently have conditions under which the debtor is insolvent. However, insolvency shall no longer be required when a creditor-damaged disposition is made. After the amendment of the law, it will be sufficient for the debtor concerned to face a real risk of becoming insolvent in the course of the action. Some hearing bodies have expressed concern that the condition of ‘clear danger of becoming insolvent’ could affect arrangements which, at the time of action, appeared to be sensible but which subsequently proved to be unlucky. In this respect, it is important for me, as the rapporteur-in-Office, to make it clear that it is the future prospects of the debtor at the time of disposal that will be crucial for criminal justice. Penalties may be imposed following amendment of the law if the debtor has grossly negligently or intentionally infringed accounting rules. This change will typically affect debtors who throw the accounts to make legal prosecution difficult, reflecting, in the Christian People's Party's view, a completely necessary approach to today's competition criminality. Indebtedness is consistently revealed at a late stage of the follow-up. This is often due to attempts to cover the criminal offence through breaches of accounting law. On this basis, the limitation period for criminal offences shall no longer be subject to bankruptcy and indebtedness proceedings under the law. A suspension rule is introduced, which is limited to infringements of Chapter 27 of the Criminal Code and the first paragraph of Section 8-5 of the Accounting Act. The absolute time limit for suspension shall be set to five years. An overall committee asks the Department to consider whether other criminal penalties relating to financial crime should also be covered by that suspension rule. Nor is it a requirement that the action should affect the creditor community. It will now be sufficient for criminal liability to affect a single creditor. On the other hand, Chapter 27 limits criminal liability. Unlike the applicable criminal law § 285 first paragraph, a condition is introduced that the losses of creditors must be significant in order for a risky entrepreneur to be punishable. Furthermore, the liability of creditors is reduced. In addition, the receipt of settlements for debt shall be punishable only if the creditor has used undue means to obtain the benefit. In its examination of the proposal, the Committee has stressed in particular the need to simplify the certification requirements of Chapter 27 of the Criminal Code. Dark figures are high in financial crime. Later this month, the Government will present a separate action plan against financial crime. It will be a central element in the fight against this type of crime. It is a goal for the Christian People's Party to strengthen its efforts against, among other things. competitivity. In my opinion, the changes that are now being made to the Penal Code and the changes that the Storting made to bankruptcy legislation by Besl. O. No In total, 64 for 2003-2004, lead to a significant improvement in society’s ability to detect and sanction anti-competitive crime. With this background, I would recommend that Odelstinget support the suspension of the Judicial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e110	The government invites Stortinget to take new action in the fight against financial crime, and the Stortinget is following up. This time, there are changes to the criminal law on crimes in debt. There is unanimity on everything in this proposition, and the rapporteur has very well explained the proposed changes - therefore only a few brief comments from my side. The fight against economic crime is becoming more and more important, and corruption and government are placing great emphasis on this work, which is not least reflected in the forthcoming presentation of an action plan on economic crime. The studies have shown that as many as two out of three business bankruptcies are suspected of a criminality of competition. Often, these matters are dismissed. The reason is that the penalties in Chapter 27 of the Penal Code are complicated and raise problems of interpretation and proof, as the Criminal Felony Council has pointed out in its investigation. So this is going to do something about it. We are making a number of changes to the law that will make it easier to follow up such bankruptcy cases. More stringent penalties are also proposed in several areas in Chapter 27 of the Criminal Code. Economic crime is serious in itself, and more and more often we see the link between economic crime, organised criminal groups and, ultimately, terrorists present. The right, therefore, welcomes the simplifications and the punitive shrapnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e125	I am pleased that the Committee supports the Government's proposals in Ot.prp. No 37 for 2003-2004 amending the rules of Chapter 27 of the Criminal Code on Indebtedness Crimes. The current provisions on competition crime in Chapter 27 are complex and complex. The aim of the amendments is to make the rules more effective and easier to practice. This is part of the government's effort to combat financial crime. Today, many reports of breaches of the rules on indebtedness are passed on, for example: the complexity of the rules and the difficulty of interpretation and proof. At the same time, we know that criminal offences are suspected in a large number of business failures. In order to simplify the presentation of evidence, the Ministry has proposed a principle that it is sufficient for the debtor to be in danger of becoming insolvent by an act, in those criminal penalties in which insolvency is currently a criminal offence condition. It will often be difficult to prove that a person or a company has been insolvent at a certain time back in time. As the Committee has also pointed out, it is, in principle, a random advantage for a debtor who is clearly at risk of becoming insolvent by an act, that insolvency does not occur. The criminality of a creditor offence is thus the same in such cases as when the debtor is actually insolvent. It is also important to propose the amendment of Section 283 of the Criminal Code on Property Impairment in the event of insolvency, that there should be a presumption of insolvency in the event of intentional or gross negligence on the part of the accounting officer. For example, if the debtor: if the accounts have been broken in such a way that it cannot be ascertained whether he was insolvent, at the time of action, it shall be assumed that he was insolvent, unless the opposite can be proved. This would significantly simplify the evidence in such cases. I would also like to highlight the proposal that the limitation period for criminal offences covered by the Chapter on crimes indebtedness and for infringements of the Accounting Act should not run as long as the debtor's residence is bankrupt or indebted. Offences affecting creditors are often revealed at a late stage in bankruptcy proceedings. Without an extension of the limitation period, it may be possible that the circumstances have expired before the bankruptcy procedure is completed. At the same time, for reasons of legal certainty, a maximum limit of five years has been set for the extension of that period. I have noticed that the committee asks the Department to consider whether the same principle applies to other criminal offences involving financial crime. I have also noticed that the Committee supports the Ministry's proposal that simple negligence should not be sufficient to penalise anyone under the debt chapter. It is the unfair conduct against the creditors that is sought under Chapter 27 of the Criminal Code. Reasons for legal certainty indicate that simple negligence shall not be sufficient to punish for such offences. The proposals under consideration by Odelstinget today must be seen in the context of the changes in bankruptcy law regarding the means of settlement adopted by Besl. O. No 64 for 2003-2004. Reinforced settlement and clearer and simpler rules on debt offences will, hopefully, help to ensure that bankruptcy does not pay off. This government will strengthen its efforts to combat economic crime in various ways. In a few days' time, together with the Minister of Finance, I will present the Government's new action plan on financial crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e146	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 506]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e162	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e169	The amendments to the Financial Contracts Act deal with the question of equalising loan options, regardless of whether you borrow directly from a municipality, borrow directly from the Husbank or borrow from the Husbank via a municipality. As a consumer, there is the same need for protection, regardless of whether you have used the first, second or third loan options. The Committee agrees with this point and with the other points in the vote. In this context, I would like to point out that there has been an error on page 4 of the setting, where it says that everyone, "except the members of the Progress Party, supports the amendment of the limitation law §§ 10 and 17". That's not right. There shall be a unanimous vote on this matter. In the case of the retirement law, three substantive changes are proposed. One is to interrupt the limitation period when a case has been promoted to the Ombudsman of the Storting for administration. It is desirable to make use of the Ombudsman's services where appropriate. It would be unfortunate if either the requirement could become obsolete during the Ombudsman’s term of office or the Ombudsman’s proceedings would have to be brought at the same time as the Ombudsman’s proceedings in order to maintain the period of time within which to avoid limitation. That is why it is now proposed that the deadline be suspended when the case has been brought before the Civil Ombudsman, and that a new three-year period be granted if the Civil Ombudsman finds something critical, and a one-year period if he finds no criticism. The second change is linked to the problem of debtors who have chosen to settle abroad after having received a claim against them in Norway. Norway has agreements with some countries on enforcement, and it is natural that Norway, in the same way as the other countries, is implementing this agreement. This would essentially benefit Norwegian creditors. A third change concerns compensation for personal injury, where the absolute limitation period is now set to 20 years. This will be particularly important in relation to sensitivities and injuries caused to children and young people, which first appear or become aware of, at a much later stage. Where there has been a slight disagreement, the issue is to remove the maximum limitation period. The proposal stated that the Ministry did not wish to remove the maximum limitation period without a wide consultation. We from the Progress Party could well imagine having this hearing, not necessarily because we would jump to the conclusion that we will eliminate a maximum limitation period, but we could well imagine how this would be received especially in relation to injuries, including injuries caused to minors. I have understood it so that the majority justifies their comments on the basis of an oral feedback from the department. But it can also be good to get a deepening of this directly from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e188	In Ot.prp. No 38 for 2003-2004 the Government proposes four main changes to existing legislation. Firstly, it is proposed that the limitation period be interrupted when claims against the administration are promoted to the Civil Ombudsman. The limitation period is extended by 1 to 3 years, depending on whether or not the Ombudsman expresses criticism of the administration. This will give the individual reasonable time to deal with the decision without having to do unnecessary and possibly parallel processes. However, this suspension does not apply if the case concerns a relationship between two private parties. It is important that the Civil Ombudsman appears to be an appropriate body for persons who consider themselves to be subject to critical administrative conditions. Today, the limitation period does not end by bringing a case before the Ombudsman. It is therefore possible that a claim against the administration may become obsolete while the Civil Ombudsman is considering it. One consequence of today's limitation rule may be that a case must be brought before the Court while it is still pending before the Ombudsman in order to stop the limitation period. This is unfortunate. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the limitation period is suspended when a case is pending before the Ombudsman of the Storting for administration. Secondly, the Government proposes that the limitation period be interrupted by the imposition of enforcement proceedings against the appropriate authority of a foreign country. A prerequisite for this is that Norway has an agreement with that country on the approval and enforcement of such requirements. Today, the rule is such that a person must go to specific proceedings in the State in which the claim is to be enforced in order to interrupt the limitation period. In cases where we do not have an approval and enforcement agreement, the Government proposes a rule on the additional period as an alternative to going to court in the country in question. The purpose of this is to improve the coverage prospects for creditors who have their claims receivable abroad. Furthermore, the Government proposes an exemption from the absolute limitation period of 20 years. The exemption shall apply to personal injury suffered while the person was a minor. The purpose is to prevent such claims from being obsolete when the injured party becomes aware of the damage and the possibility of claiming compensation. The exemption from the absolute limitation period of 20 years is a strengthening of the position of claimants in respect of persons who have suffered injuries after they have been injured in their childhood. Several of those who have been seriously assaulted, or who have suffered an unreasonable burden in young years, may need a long time before they have the power to place the person or persons responsible in charge. An important consideration behind the limitation rule is that the person responsible should be able to consider the matter to be settled at a given time. But abuse against children and young people is so serious that, in my clear opinion, consideration for them must be given more weight to determining the length of the limitation period. The Christian People's Party therefore considers it appropriate and very important that the limitation period in Section 9 of the Legacy Act be changed in order to better care for that group. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Financial Contracts Act Chapter 3 on Loan Agreements and Chapter 4 on Security apply in full where a municipality or county is a lender or a bankruptcy creditor. For each individual consumer, the need to be properly cared for is equally important regardless of who is one's creditor. There is therefore no reason to operate with different regulatory frameworks depending on whether loans are granted through a municipality, such as intermediary loans through a municipality or directly from a credit institution that provides for intermediary loans through a municipality. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would advise Odelstinget to support the position of the Judicial Committee as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e203	I am very pleased that the Odelstinget now has to deal with the Government's proposals, such as: will strengthen the legal position of children and the protection of consumers for persons with social loans and other types of municipal loans. Today, the absolute payment period for personal injury is 20 years. This means that the claim has become obsolete even if the victim only becomes aware of the damage and the possibility to present claims after this period has expired. The Government proposes that this period should not apply if, at the time of the injury, the victim was under 18 years of age and the perpetrator or any of those for, knew or ought to know that the action could lead to a risk of life or serious health damage. This will typically have an impact on sensitising, such as: after bullying at school. In the consultation round, this proposal received broad support. I am pleased to see that an overall justice policy is in agreement. I am also pleased that an overall justice authority is behind the proposal that intends to prevent claims against the administration from being obsolete while they are being treated by the Civil Ombudsman. Today, the situation may be such that a person must go to court to interrupt the limitation of a case even if the case is suitable for handling the case with the Civil Ombudsman. This undermines the purpose of the Civil Ombudsman’s scheme and should therefore be amended accordingly. It is also gratifying that the Judicial Committee supports the Government's proposal to amend the rules on the limitation of claims to be enforced abroad. Following the proposal, a claim shall no longer be valid in Norway while enforcement is sought in another country under an agreement between Norway and the country concerned. In the absence of such an agreement, the applicant shall be entitled to an additional period. Finally, I am pleased that the Judicial Committee supports the Government's proposal to legislate on the full application of the Financial Agreement rules on loans and guarantees to municipal loans. This will involve both enhanced consumer protection and clarification of the legal status. The borrowers receiving loans from the municipality, for example: social loans, often have a special need for information and consumer protection. The legislative proposal will include, inter alia: have an impact on people with poor advice, and it is particularly gratifying to be able to contribute to strengthening consumer protection for this group. With regard to André Kvakkestad's remark on a maximum limitation period in general, it is right that we have said that we will have that out for consultation. We will, of course, come back to the matter when it is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e218	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 507]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e234	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e241	Odelstinget is today invited to take decisions on different types of cases in an aggregate proposition. It is with pleasure that I, as the rapporteur, note that we have gathered around most of the things. There's a few disagreements about these three main issues that lie in this collective proposition, and I guess the minority will explain the sea. I'll be very short. As regards the issue of the per mille limit for personnel on larger ships, a majority of the Judicial Committee shall concentrate on a per mille limit of 0,2 per mille for a sample of personnel on larger ships. In many ways, a new sonnetification is introduced in relation to drugs, which is an important strategy in relation to the long-term drug prevention and harm prevention work carried out in Norway. Building out zones and not talking about total bans, where alcohol is actually not used, a majority of the population and a majority in this house seem to be acceptable. Drivers or other personnel related to the safety of larger ships shall now be subject to such a per-mile limit. It is with pleasure that I see that a total accumulation agrees that there should be a per mill limit, sail if you disagree on where the limit will go. A large majority, with the exception of the Advance Party, have chosen to gather around 0.2. There is also a majority of people around the rules of abstinence outlined, so I'm not going to go into that any further. The overall proposal also contains rules and proposals on the obligation of explanation and disclosure to the police for employees of financial institutions. I'm glad we've gathered a broad majority around it. It is linked to a bet that all parties want against financial crime. I would like to support the chairman of the Judicial Committee, Trond Helleland, who said in an earlier case about the importance of getting hold of the investigation of financial crime by improving the position of the police to obtain information. This is a step in such a direction. We're not just talking about so-called traditional white-collar offenders. We know that a lot of organized crime, a lot of behind-the-scenes crime, is just anchoring a lot of its profits in financial institutions, so it's relevant in that way. For my part, I would like to add that, in my view, legal protection and the need for legal protection for people's money should be lower than the need for legal protection in relation to human human and physical integrity. Then this proposition also contains a proposal for a penalty order against torture. There is an overall committee that joins it, and proposes to increase the penalties for serious and serious torture resulting in death to 21 years. This may seem to be a reasonable academic matter for us here in Norway. I have to say that when you look at news and see what's happening in the world and especially in Iraq, and I also want to point out what's happening on the Guantanamo base in Cuba, it's so that even what we see as reasonably civilized populations, can quickly get dangerous near the border we perceive in relation to torture. Therefore, such a collection around a penalty order is to the greatest extent necessary, not only to meet the United Nations Torture Commission's demands on Norway, but also on our own consciousness, and I think it is also necessary to focus where the focus should be on torture. I am pleased that the Committee also gathers around the desire that not only a criminal ban be adopted here, but also that competences should be built in Norway. I show you, among other things: in relation to the training of the Telemark Battalion, and the intention and desire of the Committee to consider making that training compulsory. Finally, I am also pleased that a single judicial authority has pointed out that there is a need to extend international criminal justice for the purposes of both intelligence, investigation, prosecution and judgment. It will not help only with national criminal penalties if we do not have national and international agencies to deal with these kinds of difficult cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e256	The per mille limit for persons serving on larger ships is today designed as a general, discretionary norm. It is essential that the person is drunk or not. In the Right's view, this is a far too fuzzy determination. Much has been left to discretion on a case-by-case basis. It appears that intoxicated persons may behave differently, while judgment and the ability to make right decisions are severely impaired. In practice, an indicative limit of 1.5 per million has developed here to land, or more correctly, to water. Right supports the new proposal to introduce a fixed per mille limit of 0,2 per mille. This will be in harmony with the country's per million limit. I'm sure we can discuss whether 0.2 per mille is the right limit. As it has been enforced here to land, there have been few discussions. The new proposal also extends the abstinence obligation to now also apply to all ships used in industry, as well as to small boats used for the transport of passengers by industry. In Eastfold, on Whaler, the use of alcohol has actually been a theme for small boats operating in passenger traffic. Clearing the legislation will prevent the emergence of grey areas and the enforcement of the police will be easier for the future. Norway has been criticised by the United Nations Torture Committee for not having a specific penalty for torture as defined in Article 2 of the Torture Convention. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal for a new regulation is addressed to a public official who causes injury or serious physical or mental pain to others, with the intention of obtaining information or of punishing, threatening or forcing someone. A unanimous committee proposes that the sentence be jailed for up to 21 years. I do not hope and believe that this provision will be used in Norway either. But it is essential that Norway is a champion against repression internationally, and that through our own legislation, we indicate that the Torture Convention is incorporated into Norwegian law. Increasing above international conventions because torture, with Norwegian eyes, is totally alien and not existing here to land, could be perceived as arrogant and disrespectful to those states that are best able to combat torture. The role of Norway must be an example guide to the fight against torture. Today, exactly 15 years have passed since the Chinese army plunged into the place of Heavenly peace, heavily armed with armored vehicles and tanks to defeat the student rebellion. More than 1,000 young Chinese lost their lives only in the actions of the army and the secret police. How many who were later tortured to death are unknown. Thousands were sent to labour camps and prisons throughout China. International human rights organisations do not have an overview of how many people lost their lives in total at that time. Many had to flee to democratic Taiwan. The performance in the place of Heavenly Peace was broadcast all over the world as one of the largest and first truly great international live TV events. The globalized media world took China back, which scared the Communist leaders of party leadership. Representatives of official China express in their comments today to this bloody massacre incredibly enough that history speaks for itself. The action is defended because China has made great progress both socially, politically and economically, and behind it there is today a united Communist Party. The goal must never sanctify the means. The only dangerous way is to have dialogue with your own people and not put a lid on an open democratic debate. I'm not going to go into the extent of torture in China, but mentioned China's obvious threatening relationship with neighbouring countries like Tibet and Taiwan. Freedom of expression and democratic institutions are a major shortcoming. It is regrettable that there are arbitrary prisons, sentencings and executions that also include torture, without the very great commitment to it from the free world. The openness of China in economic trade with other countries does not experience China’s own inhabitants. Violation of human rights is hidden behind the successful economic progress in recent years. Norway shall be consistent in its fight against torture, whether in the case of allies or others. For Norway, not adopting a principle approach would seem unconvincing internationally in the fight against torture. The US administration of prisoners in Abu Ghraib prison in Baghdad is specifically mentioned by the Committee. Also mentioned is the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, where the Turkish authorities received 2.5 million. kr in fine because the country's security police tortured 15 members of the banned Communist Party in Turkey during an action eight years ago. International criminal courts will only play the role that international society allows it to play. It is therefore of immeasurable interest in the fight against terrorism, torture and other violations of human rights that the majority of countries join this court. International Conventions § la Torture Convention has no force without broad international recognition, including, inter alia, the from the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e279	As regards the punishment against torture, it has been introduced primarily to meet the will of the United Nations Torture Committee. As stated in the proposition, it is not necessarily a change of reality in itself, the introduction of such a penalty. In Norway, in any case, other penalties would have been violated by the execution of torture. However, I think it is positive to clarify this, so that there is no misunderstanding that might suggest that Norway does not prohibit torture. In that context, I cannot see any harm in having such a criminal order, although it may not be explicitly necessary. As far as the penalty framework is concerned, I am very pleased that the Committee has come to the conclusion that there should be a 21-year penalty for serious torture of death. Doing serious torture leading to death should, in certain contexts in particular, be in line with the deliberate killing. As regards the issue of the per mille limit at sea, the Progress Party is of the opinion that the drunkenness criterion for the operation of larger ships is described relatively vigil. It also makes sure that one of the people involved, strictly speaking, does not know exactly where the limit goes. It is also such that with the type of cargo being carried, passengers not least, it would be very good to know where the limit of what is acceptable goes. The point of progress is of the opinion that the per mille limit should be set at 0,5. It is related to our point of view in relation to the rules that we want in the road sector. We would have liked to see an equality in these areas. At the same time, for small boats, the per thousand limit is 0,8. But anyway, the most important thing isn't necessarily whether you decide on a per mill limit of 0.8, 0.5 or 0.2. The most important is the rules on mandatory abstinence. So in principle, you're going to be completely pro-mille-free, but from our point of view, we want a small buffer situation for cases where you should have gotten something that you really didn't expect. I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e292	The representative, André Kukkestad, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e295	The Government suggests in Ot. pp. No 59 a fixed per mille limit of 0,2 for larger ships. This makes the per mille limit as strict on the sea as on the road and in the air. It is very gratifying, in the view of the Christian People's Party, that this ensures better against marine accidents. A per mille limit of 0,2 will now cover all ships of 15 metres or more. The prohibition shall apply to masters of the sea, to pilots of the ship and to others engaged in services of essential importance for safety at sea. It is also positive that the Government, in addition to a per mill limit of 0,2, proposes an extended rule on abstinence. The ban on drinking alcohol during the service period shall now apply on board all major ships engaged in industry. It shall also apply to small boats used for the carriage of passengers. The ban on drinking alcohol applies both during the service and up to eight hours before the start of the duty period and shall apply to the same persons to whom the per mille limit applies. I have to say that it is nothing less than eye-catching that the Progress Party - as the only party on the Stortinget - opposes the introduction of a per million limit of 0.2 for larger ships. Such a limit will undoubtedly contribute to increased safety at sea and will be able to prevent accidents involving damage and loss of life. But the Progress Party doesn't seem to care about this. Norway has been criticised by the United Nations Torture Committee for not having a specific criminal order against torture in the law, as the Torture Convention requires. In Norway, until now, we have considered it sufficient to have other, more general, penalties that also include torture. However, in line with the UN recommendation, the government is proposing a new provision against torture in Section 117a of the Criminal Act. The proposal for a regulation will capture the participation of North and Foreigners in tortures abroad. The Christian People's Party fully supports this proposal and believes that the clarification of the legal status of a ban on torture is both correct and important. Amnesty International’s 2004 annual report shows that a total of 130 countries have used torture or abused. It is important for me to clarify that neither security nor justice can justify torture. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the best guarantee of justice and the security of individuals is that human rights are respected. They shall both protect against abuse and be increasingly used to place offenders in charge of their crimes. In our view, there is a growing need for debate on issues of torture and other inhumane treatment. The government has consistently criticised other countries for violating human rights. Criticism has been consistent, regardless of whether it has hit our closest allies. An example of this is the discussions on the situation of Iraqi prisoners in Iraq and the situation of prisoners at the Guantanamo Base in Cuba. Such a consistent line is the only right! Employees in banks and other financial institutions are currently subject to legal confidentiality obligations on matters that they become aware of through their work. The obligation of professional secrecy applies to the police, but not to the courts. This means that the police must obtain legal assistance if it is desirable to obtain information from witnesses with professional secrecy under the Business Bank Act, the Savings Bank Act, the Insurance Business Act, the Securities Register Act, the Financial Activities Act or the Securities Trading Act. The intention of the proposed amendment to the Criminal Procedures Act is to enable the police to obtain information from them, too, without being forced to obtain the consent of the court. The obligation shall apply in criminal matters and in other matters where there is a strong public interest in the provision of information. The proposal will release resources and make the investigation more effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e323	I am pleased to note that the Committee on Justice gives virtually its full support to the law under consideration. The main purpose of introducing a fixed and lower per-mile limit for larger ships is to improve safety at sea. I am pleased that a single justice authority shares the Government's view that for larger ships, too, there should be a fixed pro-mille limit, and that the majority believes that the limit should be set at 0.2. This limit is in good proportion both to the damage potential of larger ships and to the limit applicable to road and air transport. The current per mille rule for larger ships is an exhaustive calculation of who should be included. The calculation indicates partly too many, partly too few persons. For me, it has been central that the rule should apply to all those who provide services of essential importance to maritime safety. In my view, the proposed amendments to the rules on compulsory retirement are a valuable addition to the per mill rule. Today’s obligation to provide services applies mainly only to passenger ships with more than 12 passengers. The consideration of increased safety at sea speaks for the extension of the scope of the provision to all major ships. However, existing rules testify to the specific safety needs of passenger transport. There is a background to the proposal that the abstinence obligation is also proposed for a number of small boats carrying passengers in industry. To date, it has not been considered to be particularly problematic that Norwegian criminal law has no specific criminal order to address torture. Torture is affected by more general criminal orders, including: personal injuries, deprivation of liberty, coercion, threats and abuses of public authority. Such penalties were then also used in legal proceedings following World War II against persons charged with torture in Norway. It is difficult to imagine a torture which is not already punishable by the law in force. Nor do the other Nordic countries have their own penalties for torture. However, Norway has been criticised by the United Nations Torture Committee for not having a specific penalty for torture based on a definition of torture in accordance with the torture convention Article 1, at the latest in its report of 27 May 1998. It would be unfortunate at international level if Norway did not comply with the torture committee’s recommendations. This will include, inter alia: be a bad signal in relation to countries where the need is more urgent for a strong and clear ban on torture. An explicit ban on torture will indicate in clear terms that Norway is taking a great deal of distance from the current acts. Another argument for imposing such a specific penalty is that many other countries have their own criminal orders specifically targeting the acts in question and that a similar provision in Norway can help to facilitate better cross-border judicial and police cooperation. The proposal to introduce a specific penalty order was fully supported during the hearing, and it is an important political signal that a single justice authority also supports the proposal. The Committee proposes to increase the sentence from 15 to 21 years of imprisonment in the event of serious and serious torture resulting in death. In the proposition, the issue was assessed, but more severe punishment was not proposed, because a similar high framework for gross body damage is very little used. However, I have no objections to the proposal. The government is very concerned with improving the efficiency and simplification of police investigations into criminal matters, as long as this can be done without prejudice to important guarantees of legal certainty. It is therefore with satisfaction that I record strong support for the proposal to introduce an explanation and disclosure obligation to the police for employees of financial institutions, etc. The legislative measure will contribute to increasing the speed and effectiveness of investigations, in particular of financial criminal proceedings. The current system, where employees of banks and other financial institutions cannot provide information to the police without breaking the obligation of professional secrecy by law or by agreement, is difficult and inappropriate. The police are forced to request and conduct legal hearings if they want oral explanation from such witnesses, even if the witness himself would like to explain himself. The system seizes time and resources, both in the police and in the courts. I have also stressed that the financial industry itself wants rules on accountability. The proposed legislative measures are therefore expected to have a positive impact on the pace and effectiveness of both the investigation phase and the second stage of the criminal proceedings. In addition to the legal economic gain of the release of resources in the police, prosecutors and courts, legislative measures will enable the police to obtain information more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e352	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e355	The representative Holstad had some adjustments about the per mille limit that almost made it sound like the Progress Party was at a per mille limit. As I said, we're going to go into a fixed limit, but we want it to be equal to 0.5. The representative Holstad thinks many lives would have been lost with as high a limit as 0.5. I could have thought that he was deepening this something more. How many lives does the Christian People's Party think would have been lost by a limit of 0.5 instead of 0.2, especially on the basis that one has not registered death at today's limit, which is actually at 1.5 for larger ships? This is particularly strange in the context of small boats having a limit of 0,8 even if they carry persons out of industry. I can't see that the Christian People's Party has made any suggestions in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e363	The next speaker is No Marte Thorkildsen, who has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e366	Don't I have five minutes? I have not had any posts before.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e371	Then we're correcting the speaking time to 5 minutes, since it's the first post of the representative, Thorkildsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e374	SV believes it is good that we now have a separate provision on torture. In this way, Norway sends international signals that we are taking on our share of responsibility, despite the fact that Norway is not the country with the biggest problems in this particular field. At the same time we also have to remember that we don't have completely pure flour in the bag seam either, and we haven't had it either. We have repeatedly been criticised by international bodies and torture committees that have been on tour in Norway, for example. in the case of Norwegian practication of warehousing provisions. A clean-up has taken place here, but this, in SV's opinion, has taken too long. It must be clear that in Norway we do not accept torture and that we want to protect and defend human rights in any case. This can be very demanding for us in Norway, because it also means that foreigners who commit crime in Norway, including serious crime, are entitled to protection against torture and other inhumane acts and against human rights violations. This includes, inter alia: that the Progress Party must also accept that criminals who have committed serious crimes against citizens in Norway must be allowed to stay in Norway if they are at risk of being tortured or other human rights violations if they are sent out. This is quite demanding when one comes up with very specific cases where there has been a great injustice to others, even killing. Among other things, Sweden is now in severe weather because they have sent out two foreigners who were suspected of terrorism to Egypt, and they must have been subjected to gross torture in Egypt. Human rights activists and politicians internationally have reacted very strongly to this, because they believe that Sweden has put itself in a very bad light and lost its position as a country in the first place in order to overcome torture and violations of human rights. There is also another aspect that I would like to highlight when we are now dealing with torture. It's about the women's perspective. Internationally, it has been difficult to accept that women should be protected by exactly the same provisions and given the same protection in practice as men. In concrete terms, the UN Women's Committee has been very concerned that not the torture committee of the United Nations has taken this seriously enough, precisely because it has looked at men who torture, not as torturers, but as men. If the man, among other things: has committed rape against his torture victim, he has suddenly only been "man" - it has not been in "the conduct of the office". When the department of page 5 of the statement states that "it is sufficient to mention in the motives that the action, in order to be included in the definition of torture, must take place in relation to the work or service", we must keep our tongues straight in our mouths. I also believe that the Minister of Justice must internationally insist that we do not have to distinguish " civil servant" from "man", in order to say it that way. In practice, this has in many places meant that women have not received protection against torture, because it has simply been viewed as a private matter. Finally, I would just like to touch on the situation with regard to Iraq and the United States and also the problem of terrorism. It is clear that we are now in a quotation where one of the world's greatest democracies commits gross violations and violations of human rights against people as defined by citizenship, by saying that terrorists should not have the same human rights as others. It's completely independent of whether they're convicted and it's actually proven that they're terrorists. This puts us all in a very dangerous situation. We can never accept that. No matter who it is, we can never accept it. When, to all intents and purposes, it also applies to a democratic state, it becomes very serious. This must be much stronger for Norway when it comes to meeting American officials and politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e389	The representative Kukkestad asked for a reason with numbers. In terms of the difference between 0.5 and 0.2 in terms of the per mill limit at sea, I don't think it's possible for me to generate these numbers right now. However, with reference to the many experiences and the many documentations that have been made available in relation to driving, I think there is evidence that there is a significant difference between a driver with 0.2 per mill and one with 0.5 per mill in terms of being able to behave safely on the road. The same will also apply to movement at sea. I have often wondered why we still have to wait at a limit of 0.8 for small boat drivers. Until now, a number of small boats have been wrecked along our long-distance coast, with some tragic outcomes. Unfortunately, there is also evidence that alcohol has been a major cause of the course of events. This in itself also shows that boats with a length of less than 15 meters should have been handled in the same way as we are now providing for boats with a length of more than 15 meters. I think it's crucial that we focus on this, and that maybe next round we go a step further and based on what I've been referring to, also assesses the need to look at the per mille limit for boats with a length of less than 15 meters, i.e. for small boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e396	This can be a very confusing debate for those who listen to it, because it's about both alcohol and per million limits at sea, and it's also about the inclusion of the Torture Commission in Norwegian law. What's a little daunting here is actually SV's view of torture. It seems that torture carried out in democratic states is much more serious than torture that happens in dictatorships, and I think that is a frightening thought. So there are dictatorships in the world that hide torture, and then in a way, as SV puts it in this room, an acceptable act, while when it's done by allies, which is equally unacceptable to the Right, it's a big problem. I think it fits well with the pattern that SV has shown in the political debate on political ties, namely that they are very "soft" to the regimes that stand close to them politically, but they take a strong distance from regimes that stand far from them politically. For the Right, it is important to take a strong distance from torture regardless of alliances, regardless of which regimes carry out the torture. It's important to underline.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e403	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 509]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e418	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e425	The Committee broadly endorses the Government's proposal for changes to the Police Act. The proposal now promotes the necessary change to improve medical control for prisoners in police detention. This includes, among other things: background to Stortingen's treatment of Document No. 8:105 for 2001-2002, where a unanimous committee asked the Government to promote changes to the police law that ensure that the necessary health professionals are involved in the introduction of heavily intoxicated persons into the police detention centre. Over the past ten years, 38 people have died in Norwegian police detentions as a result of alcohol poisoning. The Committee therefore considers it essential to improve medical supervision in order to reduce the number of deaths. Not all intoxicated persons admitted to custody need to be examined. As long as he is able to prepare and take care of himself, it will initially not be necessary to summon a doctor. According to the police arrest project, approximately half of those intoxicated due to disorder of order, not because of the intoxication itself. It is therefore obvious that there is a need here for a discretionary assessment by the police of the need to summon a doctor. At the same time, we would stress that since there is now a discretionary aspect, it is very important that the threshold for calling on a doctor is very low. The Committee agrees that the appointment of police officers should now be cleared up and that the forms of addition should be harmonised between the Directorate of Police and the other department. The majority of the Committee, the Government Parties and the Workers' Party agree with the Government that, as a general principle, the aim is to limit the use of temporary employment in the country. However, we agree that the Director of the Police Directorate and the Heads of Special Bodies should be appointed for years. Some changes to the Police College Act are also proposed. This is a natural follow-up to the fact that police training has shifted from a level education to a higher education. At one point, however, the Committee disagrees with the Government's proposal, namely on the possibility for students to have bee jobs during education. The Ministry proposes that students should not be able to do so. A unanimous committee thinks it's unreasonable. It cannot be that police students should be refused summer jobs and other bedding to finance their studies. This was natural as long as the education was a paid establishment education, but a study financed by ten-month student loans force police high school students to finance the summer months differently. The Committee therefore proposes an amendment to Section 24d of the Police Act which makes it possible to have bijobbers with the exception of the Year of Practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e446	Today, we are making some changes to the police law. I would like briefly to touch on two of the amendments. When it is now stated in Section 9 of the Police Act that it is the responsibility of the police to ensure that the necessary health professionals are involved when persons admitted to police detention can reasonably be expected to suffer serious health damage due to intoxication, illness and/or physical injury, it is an important provision that will also be of great help to the police. In the current drug situation, it is often difficult for the police to assess the health status of an arrester. Alcohol abuse is easy to detect, but drug use, drug abuse and polydrug use can often be a serious threat to health, as the effect may be rapid, and the police may experience that arresters who appear to be in good condition suddenly get seriously worse health status. The Judicial Committee is pleased that the Government is following up legislative proposals after the Committee asked the Government on 19 June 2002 to ensure that the necessary health professionals were involved in the introduction of heavily intoxicated persons into the police detention centre. 38 people have died in police detention in the last ten years, and one can imagine the burden this has been on the families and also on the police officers and women who have been responsible. It is important that the threshold for calling a doctor is low, so that the risk of misassessment is minimised. As long as an arrester can prepare and take care of himself, there will normally be no need for medical attention. The Committee also makes a change to the Ministry's proposals regarding the right of high school police students to work alongside the studies. The Ministry proposes that Section 24d of the Police Act on Beekeeping, Confidentiality and Educity should apply to high school police students on the same lines as civil servants. The Committee agrees with this in terms of soberness and professional secrecy, but considers that restrictions on beekeeping would be too serious an intervention against police students. The Committee would point out that after transition from education to higher education, police students will have to finance their studies through student loans, in the same way as all others. The law will prevent police students from having summer jobs and bedding to finance their studies, as other students do. In the opinion of the Committee, the students shall notify the Police College of the bees they have. It is important that students at the School of Police, who no longer have a salary in education, are given the opportunity to ask about the student loan. I am therefore pleased that it has been agreed that we are changing this and giving the police students that opportunity. With regard to the other legislative changes proposed in this proposal, there is broad agreement on these, and this is well explained by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e459	The deaths that have occurred in Norwegian custody prisons due to intoxication are tragic. We all mean that. In this context, I am pleased that the focus is now on the police's need to summon health professionals to check the state of the prisoners. The Committee is united in its assessment of the police, namely that there should be a low threshold for the police to summon a doctor, and that one should be on the safe side and rather call a doctor if one is unsure. There is a slightly greater disagreement in situations where the prisoner himself feels the need to get a doctor to investigate his health situation. In such a situation, the members of the Progress Party and the SV believe that it is necessary not to call a doctor if the prisoner himself asks for this. We see that in some cases such requirements can only be used as a training exercise and even prevent the police from carrying out their work. However, in essence, a person’s desire and need for medical care should be taken seriously. Although the police have the greatest knowledge of crime prevention, it is strictly every person who has the best knowledge of, and who is an expert on, his own body and his own condition. It also addresses the issue of year-to-year employment for the management of the police. Once again, it is the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party that stand together, all the time we think it is appropriate that the management of the police be employed to a large extent on a yearly basis. These posts have a special need for ongoing renewal, and we believe that in the future there will be major changes in the conditions for police and police management. It is interesting to note that the Right Party does not want much of the police management to be employed on a yearly basis. The fact that the Labour Party does not want to do so is not surprising in itself, but that the Right considers annual targets inappropriate for the police, while they have been a great champion of it in all other areas involved in public and responsible positions, appears to be quite incomprehensible. Finally, I also want to discuss the possibility of the police students working for bees. We support the fact that police students are given this opportunity and that there is no professional ban during the study period. The economy of police students cannot be considered better than that of other students. And then we can't see that there's going to be any special need to prohibit them from working alongside the studies. It is clear that once you get a beer job within the police's own ranks, the rules that apply are also applicable to the police students. It is also very important to note that students are going to report to the Police College about what bee jobs they have. So there are no questions of approval, or prior approval, of what duties you can have, but it gives the university the opportunity to react if it turns out that the students have beer jobs that cannot be seen to be compatible with going to the police college. I assume that the Police College in this context will have an appropriate and careful enforcement of all the time you can see that where there is no compelling need or damage your reputation, there is also no reason to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e472	Over the past ten years, 38 people have died in Norwegian police detentions. In the view of the Christian People's Party, a change in the law is also necessary to reduce the number of deaths. In this context, it is important to ensure that the necessary health professionals are involved in the introduction of highly intoxicated persons into the police detention centre. In our opinion, it is correct that the police make a discretionary assessment as to the need to summon a doctor, and not as in Denmark, where the medical examination is mandatory. When choosing this solution, it is particularly important that the threshold for calling on a doctor is lowered to minimise the risk of misassessment. In other words, much is needed to refuse to call a doctor if the prisoner asks for it. This is also included in the legislative proposal Section 9 seventh paragraph. By virtue of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 19 of the Police Act, annual target allowances are used to a large extent in the police and civil servant seats. The reasons justifying the use of annual targets by the police officers also apply to the heads of police special bodies. According to the view of the Christian People's Party, there are good reasons why these positions are also filled on a yearly basis. This will include, inter alia: contribute to ensuring the necessary renewals, performance orientation and efficiency. The same applies to the appointment of the chiefs of police special agencies. In the case of Ecocrim, which is part of the higher prosecution authority, our opinion is that the form of addition must be as for the rest of the heads of state attorneys. The Ministry also proposes changes to the rules on the legitimacy of officials in Section 20 of the Police Act. Nevertheless, it should be legitimate, for the sake of the present crime scene, that, in some situations, uniform officials do not wish to give their name. The Ministry's addition, "or service number", in my view, is correct. Officials shall subsequently, as far as on-site conditions permit, provide the name or service number. I have noticed that the department will continue to work on the issue of the introduction of visible service numbers on the uniforms. It is also a wish on the part of the Christian People’s Party that, as soon as practicable, the system of visible service numbers is implemented on police uniforms. The Ministry proposes that Section 24d of the Police Act on Beekeeping, Confidentiality and Educity should apply to high school police students on the same lines as civil servants. I would point out that restrictions on beekeeping will be too serious an intervention against police students. After transition from education to higher education, police students need to finance their studies through student loans, just as everyone else does. The law will prevent police students from having summer jobs and bedding to finance their studies, as other students do. The proposed change will give the police students opportunities in line with other students.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e487	SV is very pleased that we now have a change in the police law that reduces the risk of making misassessments. We refer to our Document No. Eight proposals, which we submitted on 21 March 2002, which, on the basis of several issues mentioned in the media, suggested changing the law, so that we reduced the likelihood that people who have been arrested for intoxication or who have been introduced because they are both drunk and have committed disorder. For the past ten years, 38 people have died in Norwegian police detentions. Therefore, it has been absolutely necessary to make changes to the police law, which makes doctors more likely to be called upon when intoxicated people are taken in by the police. Actually, SV would have wanted us to have detoxification stations in several places in the country, because the experience with this in Oslo has been very good. The fact that these deaths have occurred has in many cases been entirely unnecessary. If the police officers had considered it necessary for medical supervision, the lives of some of these persons could have been saved. Of course, we can't sit and watch that. At the same time, it is also quite brutal, in many ways, that police officers should be responsible for that and carry out those assessments, since in many situations they do not have the prerequisites for making the right judgements. They will then be left with a black man, because they feel that it is their responsibility that the arrester has not received the medical supervision that was necessary, whereas this is really the responsibility of a law that makes too little provision for doctors to be called upon, that the threshold for calling a doctor is the lowest possible. That is why we are pleased that changes are now being made in the light of the fact that several SVs and members of the Workers' Party have promoted this proposal, among others. me and the representative Anne Helen Rui, who is also on the Justice Committee. I will also, in so far as I am concerned, deal with this with the 'temporary' position, as the majority mentions it as, and as we are concerned to refer to it as annual target positions. We believe that there is a great difference between temporary jobs, which are about the protection of ordinary workers, and talking about managers in public institutions. The SV and the Progress Party consider that it is appropriate that police management be employed to a large extent on a yearly basis, so that it is easier to replace managers who obviously do not do their job well, and that it should also be possible in relation to rapidly changing assumptions that require other types of competence of managers. We believe that the debate on temporaryity and the debate that has taken place, among other things. Former State Council Victor D. Norman's initiative to liberalise working life does not become so relevant in this particular case. Finally, with a visible service number. We are a little uncertain about what the Ministry of Justice has meant when they indicate that it is sufficient that officials should only give their service number. Is there also a reference to the issue of police receipts? The Judicial Committee clearly believes that the service number should be visible on the uniform. It should not be the case that citizens should have to ask for the police officer's service number. But I guess -- and I see that the Council of State is nodding -- that it should now be possible to make this visible, in line with what the Justice Committee wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e502	In this proposition, the government is promoting proposals for several changes to the police law. These are changes that are necessary, inter alia: as a result of the police reform, the establishment of the Police Directorate and the demand for better control of the health status of those arrested by the police. This last provision is of greatest importance to the public; the other proposals are more organisational and administrative. In recent years, we have experienced more tragic deaths in police arrests. The Directorate of Police, and the former Ministry of Justice, have, in instructions to the police officers, underlined and reiterated the requirement that prisoners be properly supervised. However, both the Torture Monitoring Committee and the Civil Ombudsman have been critical of our system, and the Stortinget has asked for the requirement for health control to be legalised. The government is therefore proposing amendments to Section 9 of the Police Act to ensure that persons arrested by the police are provided with the necessary medical and health supervision. The proposal envisages that it should be clearer than today that the police have a duty to ensure health surveillance if, because of intoxication, they cannot take care of themselves or prepare themselves. The police shall consider transferring him immediately to a hospital, medical guard or detoxification station. If there is no transfer, the person shall have medical supervision at the time of imprisonment. Should there be reason to believe that the person concerned has head injury, internal damage or significant damage, or that the state of health is such that health care is deemed necessary, the police shall immediately summon a doctor or other healthcare professional. Pending the transfer to a hospital or the conduct of medical or health supervision, the person in question shall now have intensified police oversight. This involves continuous monitoring of the introduced device. The proposal proposes individual amendments to Section 18 of the Police Act on Police Staff - both in terms of standards of good conduct and in relation to the requirement of Norwegian citizenship - which shall apply only to added police officers. The proposal also proposes amendments to the rules on the allocation of police authorities and identification. In view of today’s crime scene, it should be legitimate, in the Government’s view, that uniform officials in some situations do not wish to give their name. It is therefore proposed that officials should be able to provide service numbers instead of names. I have noted the recommendation of the Judicial Committee that detailed provisions on service numbers and practical implementation be drafted by the Government, and the Ministry will give priority to this work. Of course, in this context, we are basing what was the conclusion in the case of the so-called ‘receipt mechanism’. The government follows this up in accordance with what was then the Storting assumptions. But here we're dealing with changes in the police law that go to the back of the law. A separate chapter on the activities of the Police College is also proposed. The School of Police is in a special position compared to other educational institutions, being subject to the Ministry of Justice with the Directorate of Police as the competent authority. There are no comments on the adjustment made by the Committee in relation to the beekeeping of the students, as against the fact that a person would then be in a different situation if he had an acquisition that could be contrary to having a police authority. Both principal and formal reasons indicate that there is a need to amend the police law, so that central regulations regulating the organisation and activities of the high school, as well as the rights and duties of the students, are regulated by the police law. I am pleased with the decisions the Storting makes today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e521	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 511]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e534	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e680	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e690	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e920	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e930	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e937	During the debate, Mr Kvakkestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e1176	Paragraph 143, first paragraph, No. 1 and 2 there is a different proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ""In the Law of the Sea, § 143, first paragraph, No. 1, "0.2 per mille" shall be "changed to" 0,5 per mille "and in § 143 first paragraph no. 2, shall be "0.1 milligrams... "changed to" 0.25 milligrams..."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e1325	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e1335	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e1553	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e1563	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-04-lower.ana.ud1023e1574	There is no record.
