ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e50	From the representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, you can apply for maternity leave from 3 January and from the spring session of Stortinget. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Jørund Leknes, shall be called to meet during the period of leave.3. Jørund Leknes is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e71	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e74	On behalf of Thore A. Nistad, Lodve Solholm and myself, I would like to make a proposal to provide consumers with information on the date of manufacture and freezing of the food packaging.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e79	The representative of Inger S. Enger will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e82	On behalf of the representative Ola D. Glötvold and myself, I will promote a Document No. 8-proposal to include the boundary flocks in the stock target for wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e87	The representative of Marit Nybakk will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e90	On behalf of the representatives of Gunnar Halvorsen, Rita Tveiten, Grethe Fossli, Torny Pedersen and myself, I propose to bring together the defence workshops in Ramsund, Bjerkvik, Haakonsvern, Horten, Kjeller and Trandum into one management company with special powers and not split the division into six private companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e95	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e108	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after each post, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e115	The development of Austevollsbrua in Hordaland is a matter of a long history. In the mid-1990s, the first toll financing application was submitted. Since the project at that time was not fully funded, this first toll request was not approved, nor was it later. It is only today that we are at the forefront of the political finalisation of the matter. A lot of different elements are inside the image to get full funding. This includes, inter alia: the other release case The size of the package is handled. For Austevollsbrua, savings in capital costs and ferry premiums are an important part of the financing. This shows that opening up to the use of holiday-resolution funds is the top-level funding needed to resolve important transport projects in ferries. Otherwise, both Austevoll Kraftlag and Austevoll go into the financing by means of funds. But the decisive thing about the financing system is the efforts of the inhabitants of Austevoll himself. People in Austevoll are stretching far both by accepting the new ferry service and also by contributing to the fact that a large part of the funding is tolls. All of these different items in funding mean that little ordinary government resources are needed, and that's what all together solved the funding plan. With the construction of this project, it will be approx. 97 pst. by the inhabitants of the municipality of Austevoll, bound together by a fixed road connection. This will be of great value to the business community in the municipality. It will facilitate a larger construction and labour market area. As internal communications improve, there will also be better conditions for culture, teams and organisations. For the Austevoll municipality, this will be an advantage in facilitating the provision of municipal services. Better internal communications will make it easier to organise a good service provision and could be cheaper than in the past. In fact, it's hard to produce anything other than the positive effects of this project. The whole committee must be able to accept Mr Austevollsbrua as a signal that this is a project with great positive benefits. I am pleased that a large majority in the Committee, all except for the Progress Party, also supports the proposed financing arrangement. I'd like to emphasize that it's actually the toll part together with all the other pieces that will allow this project to be fully financed and started as soon as all the decisions are made, and the last decision will be taken here today. I am very pleased to recommend the option from the plural.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e136	This is a great day for people in Austevoll. Once again, we are witnessing local communities and road users lifting up together to realise what was going to be a state task – the construction of highways. We are witnesses to idealistic people who are involved in building society and who get things done. The Westerners are used to this. Over 50 years of toll projects, user-funded roads, bridges and tunnels have been realised, often without State involvement in funding at all. Countless projects, with some predictions, have been disbursed in good time and opened for free circulation without tolls or ferry payments. The Advocate General gave a good report to Mr Austevollsbrua. Here it's 60 pst. user involvement, and only 5 pst. of the funding is ordinary State resources. It's a special brand day in Austevoll, this raging municipality with the sea as its closest neighbor, because all the larger islands now get fixed road links. With the active business community in this municipality, which is particularly prominent in modern fishing and farming, this will mean a simpler everyday life, of course also for most people. It's a pleasure day for us, too, because as decision-making authority we have to help realize an old dream, put the crown on the work with the last of the four big bridges in Austevoll. In doing so, we will be able to contribute to new optimism and growth. The Austevollingen will now be able to move freely within their own municipality, without ferry delays, waiting time, night-ridden and not least expensive crossings. A little discouraged, however, is that the rapporteur, Inge Storebø, who passed away too early, did not experience this day. He worked, like his successors, aimfully towards the day when the big islands in the municipality would get fixed road links. But future generations will enjoy the inaugural assembly and their great work, with Backasundbrua, Stolmabrua, Storkalsøøbrua and now Austevollsbrua. This is a great day and a real Christmas present for the people of Austevoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e151	I would like to make the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘1. The toll company is authorised to raise loans of up to 190 million. crowns to advance the construction of Rv 546 Austevolllsbrua.2. The Ministry of Finance shall be authorised to conclude an agreement with the tolling company on the repayment of the amount by means of an optical recording of vehicle passages after the completion of the project.’;» Here, through grants from the municipality, the community has added up a total of 77 million. kr. In addition, the State will save on ferry subsidies when the link goes from two to one ferry. The Progress Party is of the opinion that the contribution of the community is large and that tolls are therefore to be reimbursed by the State through an optical registration of the vehicles passed. Finally, I assume that the Minister of Transport and her staff will send a Christmas and New Year greeting to all drivers in this country, for next year we will probably pass 50 billion kroner in contributions to the Treasury from us tax-fleet drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e165	Today the flag goes to the top in Austevoll – and that is all there is to it. With the decision that Stortinget is making today, it is clear for the construction of Austevollsbrua. Construction starts early next year and completion late in 2007 or early in 2008. Austevollsbrua is the last of the bridge projects that connect most of the island municipality Austevoll. Now it is approx. 97 pst. by the inhabitants of Austevoll, relate to fixed road connections. Too many ostrich completions, this is a real-world adventure. It is a dream that is about to be fulfilled. Locally, there is great faith in and great expectations of Austevollsbrua. Brua gives many advantages – public service provision, industrial development and the construction and labour market osb. The bridge makes everything easier. But Austevollsbrua has positive consequences far beyond the municipal border. With a forward-looking, strong and diverse business life and with a creativity that many can envy, Austevoll and the east-vollings in the elite division play when it comes to business development, growth and development. Austevollsbrua is thus also important for the county, for the western region and for the nation. In the Christian People's Party we are glad that Austevollsbrua can finally be realized. In the work on this project, it is right to highlight a very good cooperation with local forces. With the financing facility currently under way, the project can be implemented faster than would otherwise be possible. Local forces have contributed greatly to promote a project that they believe in. Creative solutions are designed to achieve this. The Toll Company and local authorities have worked out a financing solution with relatively small ordinary government promises. In the financing plan, there are saved ferry premiums, tolls and local subsidies as well as ordinary government funds. All necessary municipal and county decisions are now in place. Today, too, the necessary decision on aggregates comes. Now we are ready for the last stage – the realization of Austevolllsbrua. For us in the Christian People's Party too, this is a great day.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e180	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e183	It has been interesting to follow the process of realizing the project Austevollsbrua. The first time we got the presentation of the wedding project, and not least the creative funding plan, it was said after the meeting: here, probably, the Austevolelings take water over their heads. Today, this term is emphatically put to shame. The people in the west are willing to get some water over their heads without harming it. From time to time, people in Austevoll have met the seas and the forces of nature, and they have become watered to meet challenges and heavy lifting, both in concrete and transmitted interpretations. I am impressed by the targeted work done locally to lay the basis for the decision today. Local forces have managed to present this project, in which they have had so much faith. The toll company and the local government have been working on a financing solution involving small government funds. In addition to state resources and savings, the money shall be collected locally and regionally. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that it is the Cooperation Government that is presenting this matter and that we have to agree to make decisions on Austevollsbrua today. I want to benefit from the opportunity to compliment the people of Austevoll and the business community of the region for the inexhaustible work they have done to realize the wedding project. They have not only made demands on central powers, they have set up themselves and shown that they will take responsibility for further development of the island community and the region. I want to congratulate the people there west of the day, and I look forward to the day when the brunch can connect the inhabitants even more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e194	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1293]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e209	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1294]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e224	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted. [[Fotation, see page 1295]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e251	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 15 minutes, the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, and the Centre Party and the Coastal Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to five lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e260	I wonder if it might be a misunderstanding, because the committee believes it has registered that it should not be a line change after the main figures. It is the committee's proposal that there should be a change of line only after the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e267	Then we change the president's proposal that there should only be a change of lines after members of the Government. It's not worse. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e272	The reason we want a reply just on the Minister of Finance is that we feel that we haven't bothered him enough before Christmas, while we're in between feeling we're done. In the context of the new aging process, the oil-corrected government budget deficit for 2004 is now over DKK 80 billion. This represents an increase of DKK 12.9 billion since the budget was adopted last year. Then it's a little tempting to see this a little bit humorous, compared to the grave value that characterizes both the government and parts of the Stortning when dealing with the state budget, when, therefore, in the context of serious attempts are made to fine-tune the budgetary balance and not least the use of oil money as if it were the closest thing to life. What this in any case shows is that the rule of action still does not apply. The total estimate of tax revenue from mainland Norway has also been reduced by DKK 8.8 billion in relation to the balance of the budget. You just have to take note of that. One example is the reduction in tobacco taxes of 9.5 p.m., and to questions to the Ministry of Finance, we have not really received an adequate answer to why this is so. We know that there have been changes in the smoking law, and some other things, which can of course be related to tobacco consumption. My question to the Minister of Finance is whether he has taken this development into account in the forecasts made in the 2005 State budget. There is reason to believe that in such a case the fee has been oversubmitted. As a result of the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party, there was an agreement to compensate for the tax failure in the municipalities by NOK 2.2 billion for the current year. It is the tax failure that has arisen since the revision of the budget was dealt with in Stortinget, and I am pleased that there is a broad majority to give this compensation to the municipalities of the country, so that they can go a little better time, financially, in meeting. But we still don't know the final accounts for the local government sector. What we know is that throughout the year and the year before, there has been a low price increase, low wage growth and low interest rates, also going in a positive direction for the local government sector, so that there is a gain for the sector that I don't think we should underestimate. That's why it's dangerous just to look blind to the tax failure. At the same time, there must be no doubt that there is still some concern about the development of the local economy in 2005, and therefore I would also like to stress what the majority also points out in the vote, namely that we are now going to focus on the revised budget, and not least on the final accounts for 2004, so that, based on the economic development of municipalities, we can possibly allocate additional funds to the local government in the context of the revised budget. In this case, it is particularly important that the Government focuses on the development of care for the elderly. The majority also ask the Government to facilitate the possibility for municipalities to balance the VAT refund. It is not least a wish that has come in the form of a letter from the Communes' Central Association. I'm just asking the Minister of Finance to notice that, and to help facilitate this. It is also a majority who have registered that the Government and the State Council of Solberg have taken an initiative towards Finnmark County Municipality to discuss measures that may improve the situation of some of the vulnerable municipalities in the local communities of Finnmark. That is why the majority has granted 75 million. kr, which we hope can help create new jobs in these communities. The purpose is to allocate funds to regional and local authorities, instrument operators or State sector authorities. However, the majority have allocated funds to the department after further discussions with Finnmark County. So, finally, I'll draw the attention to page 27 of the setting point. 4.2 Pioneer divers in the North Sea. There the Financial Committee, based on the wishes of the Municipal Committee, has committed an appropriation. After some dialogue with both the ministry and members of the municipal committee, I would like to make the following clarification: it is therefore a desire of a majority that compensation be granted for home offices, but that the state's rates of sample work be used for the payment of consultant assistance. The basic wish of the majority is to help prevent the payment of unreasonably high compensation. I perceive that to this extent it is consistent with the signals that have come from the Government. So what the majority is asking for is that, on the part of the ministry, a reasonable judgement is exercised in this case, in line with the assumptions of the majority of the population. I recommend this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e293	I would like to start by saying that this year, the management of the ageing population by the 2004 budget, must be said to be special. What makes the treatment today special is that for the first time, the new aging, i.e. the final settlement in the year's budget, has become part of the agreement for the next year's budget. It must be said to be an innovation that has been introduced this year through the budgetary agreement concluded between the Government Parties and the Progress Party. It was – I would say – to the surprise of many that you found such a connection. It might seem that it's easier to spend a few extra billion dollars at the end of the year in 2004 than to give the same money for 2005. When it is also the case that the consumption of oil money in 2004 has now increased altogether by DKK 12.9 billion in addition to what was in the aged budget, it seems that it is easier for the government parties and the Progress Party to agree on an additional allocation at the end of the year than to ensure that the allocation to the municipal sector will be good enough for next year. I also find it appropriate to mention that, on some occasions in the last few years, government parties, in particular the Right, have actually raised the question of whether the budget regulation was clear enough to prevent the majority of the population from making budgetary decisions in time and in time. But once this method of budgeting to the municipalities has now been introduced, it is natural that the rest of the Storting will join it. It will also happen today. On the part of the Workers' Party, it is assessed that when the government parties and the Advance Party, i.e. the budgetary partners, did not find room to increase the size of the municipal sector by more than 800 million. in 2005, the allocation currently made is absolutely necessary. We also support it. In addition, the Labour Party believes that once the principle of compensating for the tax error is introduced, one should have endured. We're also voting for full compensation. I have recorded that it has been used as an argument that part of this tax failure was already known in the revised national budget. That's right. Then there was still half a year left, and the situation and development of the municipal sector could turn to the better. What we know at the end of the year is that it's the opposite that has happened; the tax failure has become significantly larger. I would just like to stress, on behalf of the Labour Party, that we do not believe that it is desirable to have a revised round number two of the State budget. We hope that this is not what the government parties and the Advance Party put up for in the future either. I must also say that it is far from Oslo to Finnmark. It is purely physical, and it is in every sense. It's a long way from thinking that Oslo is the Stortinget or Akersgata. The extremely difficult situation experienced by parts of Coastal Finland — and experienced for a long time — has not received national attention until late harvest. When the Stortinget in the spring session dealt with the action zone for Nord-Troms and Finnmark, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre – it was absolutely imperative – proposed to design an action plan for Coast-Finnmark. Unfortunately, it was voted down in Stortinget – we did not receive support for it. But now the situation on the Finnmark coast has finally reached Akersgata, and then it can also look as if it is possible to get a certain impact in the Stortinget. The situation is that corner stone farms in some of the totally fisheries dependent municipalities have remained silent – and they have been doing so for a long time, some for over two years. There has developed a certain number of vacancies of over 20 pst. It is also time for the central authorities to wake up and react. The working party has therefore now also submitted a package. We are very happy that more people support it. The suspension indicates that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party are united on comprehensive measures. The Socialist Left Party proposes something similar. We believe that everything that is possible must be done in order, first and foremost, to start activities in what is the cornerstone of Coastal Finland, namely fishing activities. However, there is also a need to angle and focus measures on alternative employment, the development of alternative jobs. It is clear from the setting that a commitment of 150 million is proposed. kr from the minority, which is the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. When the majority – the government parties and the Progress Party – did not want to support 150 million. kr, I have to say it's nevertheless very pleasing that it seems to be a clear majority for that half, 75 million. kr, shall be granted. It's important that the Storing does that before we split up. Hopefully, it can help to create a little new optimism on the Finnmark coast. And it's incredibly important, in our view, that the stakeholders up there get heavily involved in the follow-up. Another decision that the Stortinget makes today, I will also mention. In fact, we have recently experienced the emergence of high rates of chick cough among children, and the Institute of Public Health has asked that resources be provided to enable a follow-up vaccination for children. It's very gratifying that a unanimous accumulation today goes into order to sort it out, so that this vaccine comes into place. Finally, I would just like to wish the other committee a Merry Christmas! And then I take up the proposal that the Workers' Party, together with others, is promoting in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e319	The representative Hill-Marta Solberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e322	The oil-corrected deficit has increased by approximately DKK 13 billion in 2004. It is caused primarily by tax revenue failure and minor changes on the expenditure side. I would like to say in the beginning that – now is not the time, President. But that's okay, that, I can talk long and well, I!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e327	This is the first time a representative has been concerned about it!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e330	– I would like to say that I disagree with the Progress Party and Siv Jensen when they believe in the position and also in the post today that it reduces the importance of holding back in the budgetary procedure. Because it is perfectly obvious that the consequences for the economy are the same. If you think you should use failing tax revenue as an argument that you should be able to inflate the expenditure side even more during the ordinary budgetary procedure, I disagree with such an approach, but it hardly surprises the representative Jensen. It is important that the ageing of the population remains a last adjustment to the budget rather than a collection heat for good purposes. It requires discipline, and it requires a willingness to cooperate from all over the Storting. I agree with the representative of Hill-Marta Solberg that there has been a special new aging, but that has been a good thing. And it has been a good thing first of all because the Progress Party has acted neatly also in the treatment of the ejaculation. What is special is the Workers' Party's behaviour in connection with the ageing process. For it is the Labour Party and the Government Parties that have a budgetary agreement for 2004. What we've experienced now is the contours of a less responsible and more populist working party. The working party has made every year a virtue out of not using a penny more of the oil fund than the government parties do. In the new era, the Workers' Party chooses to spend SEK 1.5 billion more oil money than the government's parties do. In the agreement with the Progress Party on the budget, we chose to compensate for the tax failure of the municipalities by NOK 2.2 billion. That's because we have an extraordinary situation, where we think it's been right to do it. But that the Workers' Party then chooses to compensate for a tax failure that was known when the government parties and the Workers' Party negotiated the revised national budget, I think is quite alarming. With the arrangement that we present, the municipalities get a good compensation, because there are also other factors that have drawn in a positive direction for the municipalities, among others. related to low price increases, low interest rates and a cheaper pay bill, which means that the compensation is as we describe it in the adjustment. Let me finally say that we have also agreed with the Progress Party to grant 75 million. kr in relation to the special situation in Finnmark. It comes as a consequence of the initiative of the municipal minister Erna Solberg towards the Finnish county council. But we've been concerned that that money is going to create new and lasting jobs, and that we're not going to use this as a tool to change the policy. There are some significant differences between the government parties and the Progress Party on the one hand and the Workers' Party on the other, by having a more open approach to how this money should be spent, while the Workers' Party proposes quite significant changes to policies, changes that go more towards preserving old structures than laying the groundwork for creating something new. Then I will address the proposal from the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e347	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the proposal he referred to – and still there was speaking time again!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e351	In the current newly-aged budget, the oil-corrected deficit has increased to DKK 81 billion. That's NOK 12 billion, almost NOK 13 billion, more just in the last year, but in relation to a strict understanding of the rule of action, the extra consumption of money is well over NOK 20 billion. What this shows us is maybe two things in particular. One is that the rule of action as such is a sensible guide, but of course no mechanical rule. This is a political rule of action and not an economic law, which some like to present it as. And at all budgets — including revised budgets — after the adoption of the code of action, a different interpretation of the rule of action has been chosen than that originally adopted. The reason for this, of course, is that it has proved completely impossible to strictly follow the rules of action. It also shows the Government's action in this budget and in how the budget has been revised. The SV approach to the rule of action has since one day been that we need to spend the money it makes sense and responsible to spend in Norwegian society. That means that sometimes it can be right to use more, sometimes it can be right to use less, as we in the SV's alternative budgets have also done in periods, as opposed to the Government. The government has consistently spent more money than the rule of action suggests, regardless of the situation in the Norwegian economy, while the voice of the Stortinge constantly highlights its accountability and the importance of the rule of action, even if it is not actually followed, nor in this budget. That's the one lesson we can draw. The other lesson we can draw is that choosing a one-sided or very strong focus on the rule of action that makes it possible to get out of focus, and you've done that a number of times. That means it's right to use this as a guide, but of course it has to be dimensioned in relation to the economic situation that is. I noticed that the representative Sanner in his post once again talked about accountability and how to handle this. If it's really a party that acts irresponsible in this budget, it's probably right. So, for the first time, a budget is being re-expanded to spend SEK 2.2 billion – without being included in this year’s budget – which is really about next year’s budget. If Per-Kristian Foss had been in Stortinget, he would have said in large words that more harem money than this has never been used in Stortinget. And this is really cash of the best mark, simply because you spend next year's money in this year's budget, without any deposit. This will be very irresponsible from any point of view of the Right's history. But not only that, one even chooses to take a new measure, which is not mentioned at all, and put it into the effusion, without reinvention again. This applies to Finnmark. There are many good reasons both to spend money on the municipalities and money on Finnmark, but based on the rhetorical right-wing traditional, and not least on the post to Mr. Truer – which probably made most people whine around the benches, because this wasn't serious at all – is also acting right here, according to their own definition, deeply irresponsible. I'll register this. This means that a new practice has been established in Stortinget, a new practice in relation to new ageing. This means that other parties can, of course, in the same way cover both the new-ageing budget and the next year's budget in the new-ageing process and address new issues in the new-ageing process without expecting to be criticised for it either by the finance minister or by the fiscal policy spokespersons of the government parties. This practice is established by the current government with its support parties in Stortinget. We have then chosen to follow the same reasoning as the Government of the Budget Agreement with the Progress Party. Here you say to cover the tax loss for the current year for the municipalities. We've also taken that into account, but the sum of the government in the deal is wrong. The sum is NOK 3.4 billion, not NOK 2.2 billion. It does – and it is gratifying that we have received support for this from the Centre Party and the Workers' Party – that we spend NOK 1.2 billion more in compensation for the tax loss in the municipalities. We've done this before. The municipalities have an expectation of the level of revenue they will receive when the municipal bill and the revised national budget are adopted in the Stortinget. This means that there have been some dramatic cuts in many municipalities as a result of the big tax loss, and we therefore think it wise and proper to sum up the income of municipalities in the new age and compensate for the loss of taxes if it is large. That's what we've been thinking for years has been the right approach. We're consistent in this, and we're recording with some satisfaction that this is no longer irresponsible, as we were accused last year of being government parties, as we would also compensate for the loss of taxes. This is now established as a de facto practice from the government parties with its settlement party, and we will also in the future feel that it is right to do so in the new era, so that the municipalities can now expect the Storting to take a special responsibility, given that the tax loss is great for the municipalities in the period we have behind us. These 1.2 billion dollars that we've invested, we've been thought to be correct based on the situation that is. If it turns out that the municipalities are in the opposite situation, that they are getting too much money, we nevertheless believe that the municipalities have such a big hole to push the money into that we think it is right that they keep this. However, what needs to be asked about, related to such a large tax loss this year — despite the fact that Norwegian economy has gone very well — is what models the Ministry of Finance uses to make them so different both last year, year before and this year from the actual tax intake of municipalities compared to the situation in the Norwegian economy. This means that there is every reason for the Ministry of Finance to look at, together with its underlying agencies, the models on which this is based, because, in particular, the letters we received from the Ministry of Finance now state that corporate tax has become significantly lower than intended. If the Norwegian economy is going well and Norwegian companies are making good money, but the loss of tax revenue for the public is still so large, there is something wrong with the model calculation that Stortinget uses based on the figures we get from the Ministry of Finance. I ask the Minister of Finance to think through whether it can't be wise to go through this to see if this estimate can be more accurate, so that both the municipalities and the Stortinget get more precise and correct figures to deal with. A few words about other questions that have been raised in the recent ageing process: Here we're going to give $6 million. kr to Tromsø, mentioned earlier, linked to the concert that will hopefully be held there. We are pleased that this money is allocated in this budget. We are pleased to support the chairman of the Committee on the North Sea Divers, who has now found a satisfactory solution, and we are pleased with the solution that the Municipal Committee has come up with. The main single measure, in addition to what is mentioned in relation to the municipal economy, is the situation in Coastal Finland, and in particular in East Finland. Several representatives from SV will address the situation in East Finland in later articles, but let me just say that that is right, what the Stortinget is now doing. It is not right that the Minister of State has taken an independent initiative. This initiative came after a considerable pressure from the Financial Committee, where we now want to raise this issue, because it is necessary. The situation in East Finland — also the future — is very difficult, which means that many good local forces, and not least many forces in the public sector, now want to take a boost to create more optimism, especially in coastal industries. We've added 150 million. kr, which we believe will be right, in a comprehensive programme to be managed and coordinated by the Finnish County Municipality, which is based on many different measures that are dampening in relation to the current situation, but perhaps most importantly, what perspective we will have in the future to create viable, forward-looking jobs in Finnmark. Many of these measures will naturally be linked to the marine resources, fish, king crabs or their processing, but it is clear that there is a significant undissolved potential associated with the management of fish. We have also received a majority in this Chamber in the past for a fish-related value programme, in which we have great faith. It's about how to manage the fish. There are also issues related to the allocation of regional and central allowances. We have faith in a significant future for travel and tourism in Finnmark. It was in this way quite interesting to see that the French are willing to pay considerable sums to go to Finnmark, go out in a shark, fish royal crabs in the russian, experience nature like a Frenchman of course never experienced nature before, and know how the forces of nature really whip around you. People are willing to pay considerable sums to experience this type of tourism, and we believe that it is possible for Finnmark, even in those parts of the year when the weather – and nature – is a little rough, to create new, forward-looking jobs within the natural condition of Finnmark. And if you're busy with nature, happy in nature and changing weather, Finnmark is in that way a great place to visit and experience, and we believe that it's possible to imagine future-oriented jobs in Finnmark linked to both fishing and travel and tourism. We also think it is necessary to think about how Finnmark will get broadband to a completely different degree than today, and that the state needs to take greater public responsibility for this. It is clear that the distance gap in Finnmark is significantly greater than in many other parts of Norway, which means that it needs very special measures to link the entire Finnmark to the digital network. We have no independent suggestions in today's setting, so there is no suggestion to take up from SV's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e391	It may be in their place to emphasize, first of all, that the recent ageing is not a third occasion for budgetary proceedings this year, but that it is about changes in the government budget and orientation on changes adopted in the Storting or so far proposed. I'm not going to make my post unnecessarily long, but there are two conditions I want to stop a little bit. The first relates to the local economy. Through the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Progress Party on the State Budget for 2005, it was agreed to grant an additional DKK2.2 billion to the municipalities for the current year as compensation for reduced income growth. This is now at the heart of the matter. We know that over the last two to three years, municipalities have experienced a failure in income growth. It also links uncertainty to future ones. The majority, the government party and the Progress Party have, therefore, submitted a note that clearly states that a good community economy is important in securing key welfare tasks. They therefore ask the same parties, in the form of proposals, that the Government return to revision with an assessment of developments in the local economy and with any proposals for additional promises. The other thing I want to mention is the ratio in Finnmark, and especially then in Coastal Finland. In view of the fact that the Government has already taken initiatives against Finnmark County Municipality to discuss measures that could improve the situation of Vardø and other communities in Finnmark, which are currently facing major challenges, the majority, the Government Party and the Advance Party propose to grant 75 million. kr for this purpose. These funds shall be made available by the Ministry and shall be available to regional and local authorities, to intermediary actors or to state authorities. The main idea of the majority is that, in close cooperation with different actors in Finnmark, one should identify the best and most appropriate measures to exploit the great potential for growth, innovation and new jobs in this country. Finnmark is an important part of our country. The Christian People's Party will ensure that there will still be viable communities throughout the state. For this reason, we are overestimated that 75 million fresh dollars for regional development in our northernmost country are an important contribution to laying the foundations for more jobs, and also for growth, development and optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e406	Seventy-five million. kr is a tiny amount compared to 12,900 million. NOK, but that's the $75 million that I think is the most pleasing number in this setting. And that's when an allocation at a point that's not mentioned in the proposition at all, namely the situation in Finnmark, but that also the government parties have come to, is important enough. It's great that the Storting has the ability to react quickly when it's really needed, and it now seems to be full agreement that the situation in many of our coastal communities is dramatic. Seventy-five million. kr is hardly enough, but it shows a good will. The centre party believes that opportunities are good for creating new jobs and securing what is available in Finnmark. We are working together with the Arbeiderpartiet and SV to grant 150 million. kr in this round. Then we also have a much more detailed description of the situation and of possible countermeasures to what has happened. It is not detailed management, but it is simply a warning of a new policy that will be implemented on the day of a new government sitting there. Document No of the Centre Party Eight proposals will give the Storting the opportunity to discuss today's situation in Finnmark even more thoroughly, and not least this: how can the State contribute in a better way and at an earlier time, so that we do not need strong emergency calls to trigger necessary appropriations and interest from the Stortinget? I am not going to repeat the proposal of the Centre Party here, but just stress that it is Finnmark's natural riches and Norway's capital strength that must form the basis for new measures and progress in Finnmark, and not least for Finnmark's population. It is also gratifying that the government parties, together with the Progress Party, will allocate 75 million. kr for this purpose without mentioning the rule of action in one single word. So over to the large numbers that the proposition mentions-- $12,900 million. kr. A few hours passed from the serious criticism of the financial debate against allegedly irresponsible and socially hazardous use of three to four billion more oil than the government’s 2005 proposal until we found a simple finding of an additional 13 billion oil consumption in 2004. As seen, the new age for 2004 was exactly the same as for 2002 and 2003. Then there was also an additional consumption that was a two-digit billion. It is surprising and disappointing that the government has such poor overview and management. It is strange that the Ministry of Finance is not in a position to account for the growth of the structural oil-corrected deficit to which the rule of action relates, and that it is not possible to respond in one word to the fact that the increase in consumption is now observed has an impact on interest/krone rates and price increases. It would also be thought that the department could provide a thorough analysis of the reasons why corporation tax would be reduced by 10 pst. from one year to the next. The answer is probably in the government’s own policy and its impact from 2002 and 2003, but the ministry will not say anything about it. It is a pity that in the last three years so many billions have been used to repair the damage of a failed economic policy – billions who could have been used to stimulate innovation and value creation in a broad sense. A halving of unemployment could have been possible. It would have meant billions of dollars in saved daily allowances and disability benefits, and the tax failure, which we have now talked about, could have been avoided. The central party proposes to compensate the municipal sector for the total tax deficit of DKK 3.4 billion observed for 2004. The situation requires that. It is positive that the Workers' Party and SV agree with us. The reasons used by the Government Parties and the Advance Party to compensate 2/3 of the tax error are worth noting. They must certainly mean that, in the future, municipalities will be compensated if interest rates are higher than expected, if wage settlements are more expensive and price increases are greater than calculated. This is new. I refer then to the majority's reasons in the vote and here in the debate. What is said here is that if a lower interest rate can be detected, for example, it is the State that should have the gain. But if the tax failure comes, the local government sector has the risk. The majority suggest in a proposal that the municipality sector receives the remainder of the 2004 revenue after June 2005. We support this election campaign proposal. But that means that the same money is promised off three times. It is positive that there is now an agreement that no municipality should lose one penny on the VAT compensation scheme, and it is good that a majority of the financial committee meets the requirement of the board of the Municipal Councils (Central Association of Municipalities) that a deviation between reimbursement and deductions in the framework grant should be carried out. That deviation appears to constitute significant amounts in some municipalities this first year. This possibility to avoid cutbacks in service provision needs to be quickly informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e423	The coast of Finnmark is located in the middle of the food barrel, close to some of the world's most resource-rich fishing grounds. 1/4 of the world's total undiscovered oil and gas resources are estimated to be found in the Barents Sea. Finnmark borders an exciting, growing market in North-West Russia. Some of Norway’s main travel destinations are located there. Nevertheless, the vast majority of municipalities along the coast of Finnmark have suffered a decline in the population of over 25 pst. in the last 20 years. It shows the need for a new and comprehensive coastal policy, where we take advantage of our advantage by selling first-class fresh fish raw material instead of sending frozen raw material to China for processing, where we guarantee fishing rights and fishing supplies to the municipalities of the region, where we have a national strategy for the development of the fishing industry, a national strategy for the development of the tourism industry and a national strategy for the development of the petroleum industry in the north. We must also make the coast of Finnmark a driving force for national and local value creation. But first of all, we need to get the communities hit by massive unemployment. In the post-war reconstruction, it was decided that what was then seen as the most forward-looking industry – the freezing industry – should have its centre of gravity in Finnmark. Gradually, that part of the Norwegian fishing industry has become the most vulnerable to the effects of globalisation. During a one-year period, from 2002 to 2003, 40 pst went. by the fishing industry in Finnmark bankruptcy or had to cease operation. County lost about 1 000 industrial jobs. The county and the municipalities concerned have taken numerous initiatives to contribute to solutions. The County of Finnmark took the extraordinary step of sending a special report to the Prime Minister on the need for state action, and he wrote that it is ‘reasons to fear that the bottom falls out of many communities and that the pattern of settlement along the Finnmark coast may be radically changing’. It's a dramatic message. The County said: ‘If it is an objective to stop the uncontrolled development we are experiencing in the state today, it is therefore necessary that the central authorities intervene with actions.’ The government did nothing, didn't lift a finger. On the contrary, the Minister of Local Affairs and the Minister of Fisheries felt that this was the responsibility of the market. No, it's not the market's responsibility. The head of the Labour Party, Jens Stoltenberg, made it clear in the summer of 2003 that the coastal crisis is a national responsibility. The Workers' Party proposed several measures for the fishing industry, but we were discouraged. We proposed that the state should implement an action plan, as the state asked for, but again we were voted down. The Workers' Party is now taking the initiative again to start the activity where it stands still. In some municipalities it has been about 20 pst. unemployment — continuous — for several years. We need to create new jobs and secure communities. That is why we propose that 150 million be allocated. kr to an action plan, with a number of measures. Most important, it is to ensure fish for the communities concerned, so that new investors have the basis for starting new activities. The Minister for Fisheries is asking where to take it from. The answer is: primarily from the trawls that are obliged to deliver in Finnmark. Thorough analyses show that the trawls only deliver half of the fish they are obliged to deliver in Finnmark, in Finnmark. The delivery obligation must be clarified to the individual municipality and enforced. The Minister for Fisheries must also consider using his ability to dispose of some of the national quota for a period of time, in order to strengthen the basis for new operations. Then, of course, the actors have to align the production with the opportunities in the market. One cannot continue a production for which there is no basis. At the same time, however, it is necessary to focus on a broader nutrient base in the tourism industry and in the petroleum industry. Innovation Norway needs to develop its own project for the creation of non-fisheries-based jobs. Both fishing-based and non-fisheries-based activities need to be strengthened. SIVA must be able to enter as owner of buildings and have financial space to provide investment grants and development grants to the extent necessary. When the Workers' Party presented its proposal, the Right's representative from Finnmark performed to express that this proposal is part of building down the Finnmarks mentally. The better it is that the Workers' Party's proposal now contributes to at least half of the amount being allocated. The proposal of the Workers' Party is in close accordance with the views of the County Council. But I must strongly appeal that the government also takes its responsibility here. The most important thing is that the Minister for Fisheries must reconcile solutions for each location that provides investors with the necessary security for raw materials. The government must help to strengthen the commitment to competence through the development of decentralised higher education services linked to the fisheries vocational schools. The government must actively consider adding additional government jobs to Vardeø. It is important for the country that we start our activity in coastal municipalities. It is important to exploit the opportunities that lie along the coast, and it is important strategically, inter alia. in international resource negotiations. But first of all, we have to take responsibility for giving people affected by unemployment, a new job, a safe economy and a new belief in the future. I ask the Prime Minister and his office to contribute to coordination between the departments and the county council in order to implement the necessary measures, as I suppose the county council will also request.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e465	The growth in the Norwegian economy has grown above what was foreseen in the 2004 national budget. Low interest rates have contributed to increased demand from individuals and businesses, and as an average up to now this year, the Norwegian krona compared to the currencies of other countries has been weaker than in 2003. Despite increased growth, the tax intake has become weaker than expected. The government's tax receipts have been adjusted by just under 9 billion dollars in the new-age bill since Storting's treatment last autumn. The downward adjustment must be seen in the light of a relatively weak trend in ordinary tax revenues, mainly from enterprises. Despite the strong growth in business profitability in 2003 in business accounts statistics, the figures for tax offsets for the 2003 income year show a nominal decrease of about 10 pst. from the previous year of income, i.e. 2002. One possible explanation may be that many have taken advantage of the ability to carry out deficits from 2001 and 2002. However, mainland Norway’s tax revenue has increased since Stortingen’s treatment last autumn. The government will provide a detailed assessment of the tax estimates in the revised national budget for 2005. Since the ageing budget, expenditure outside the petroleum industry has increased by a net of NOK 2.8 billion. The increase is the sum of changes in appropriations covered by the Storting during the year, and consists of a number of major and minor proposals. An important contribution to the increase is the framework grant to the local government sector. New information on lower tax receipts for the municipal sector has contributed to a strenuous economy in many municipalities and counties. In accordance with the budgetary agreement concluded between the Government Parties and the Progress Party on the State Budget for 2005, the Government has proposed an increase in the local government framework grant of DKK 2.2 billion, which is endorsed by the same parties in the suspension of the Financial Committee. Transfers from the Petroleum Fund are increased by approx. DKr 13 billion to cover the increase in the oil-corrected budget deficit. Of these, lower tax receipts to the country and the compensation to the local government sector alone amount to NOK 11 billion. Both the state, municipalities, enterprises and households must live with uncertainty, but for this reason one cannot fail to budget and set a clear framework for their economic activities. From the draft government budget, estimates, assumptions and decisions will necessarily be changed in the autumn to the next harvest. Some years will result in an increase in the budget deficit, while in other years this could lead to a strengthened budgetary balance. Nevertheless, the State budget is a completely necessary management tool both in individual areas and in the more comprehensive economic governance. It is important that budgeting is based on realistic assumptions, based on the information available at all times. Representatives of individual batches use the tax deficit and the resulting increase in the oil-corrected deficit as an argument that it is neither possible nor necessary to try to fine-tune the economy through the budgetary procedure. Then I would add that the tax failure would not have been less if the Storting had initially decided to use more oil money than the government proposed. Such a policy, on the other hand, would have resulted in an even greater deficit in the re-balancing of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e483	I would like to make it clear that, with regard to the last time the Minister of Finance mentions his statement, the Workers' Party shares the view that it is absolutely necessary to have a governance tool that that rule of action constitutes when it comes to laying the overall framework for a new year's budget. Of course, it is also the case that changes require adjustments in the course of the process. My question to the Minister of Finance relates to this innovation in the year's budget management here at the end of the year, to compensating for the failure of municipalities in tax revenue in the downturn. It would have been interesting to hear the Minister of Finance's assessment, whether this is a method that he believes should be followed up on, and whether it is also such that he has thought about whether increasing tax revenue should then be deducted or how it should be handled. Our opinion is that the most important thing is to secure the municipalities an economy in the following year that takes account of the economic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e490	The normal thing under changing governments has been that changes in municipal tax revenue are not compensated for by budgets. There are two historical exceptions. One is the Workers' Party, where the funds received by municipalities were withdrawn as a result of higher tax revenues than expected. The second example is this. I’m not going to comment on it in addition to saying that I don’t think it should become a habit to use new age for such extensive changes, but it has to be added that the changes in municipal tax revenue – for that matter also in the state’s tax revenue – as a result of the circumstances I have explained have been greater this year than before. So that gives a reason to do something. I do not, however, fail to be a little surprised that you take such a sharp distance from this and call it innovation and am surprised at everything that happens in the effusion – but then you go even further. I would think that those who have now expressed scepticism about this procedure might have been a little bit more moderate about it, but the Labour Party is doing the opposite. It almost seems like you're happy to be allowed to spend a billion or a half more of oil revenue. I see that as a new line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e499	As I said, there are two special aspects of the new age that it would have been interesting to hear the finance minister's view. One is the exact same question that Hill-Marta Solberg raised, but looked at from a slightly different angle. So it's obviously responsible to spend 2.2 billion kroner without containment when it's in the new era and going through an agreement with the Progress Party here in the house. I would assume that if the Minister of Finance had been a financier of finance policy in Stortinget and that had happened, he would have said that this was a paycheck. At the same time, I know that Per-Kristian Foss on various occasions here in the house has said that raising new questions in the effusion is a practice. So this is 75 million. kr to Finnmark – an affordable and good measure, for all things – but therefore without interference. So there are several proposals without interference. The first and most sacred rule of fiscal policy, I understand, is that any expenditure must be covered by income, and that is not the case here. Is this hare money? I must allow myself to ask Per-Cristian Foss about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e506	The President hopes to have a common view of the concept of money laundering. The president's not quite sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e509	If I got hurt at the end of the previous line to say that the Workers' Party used more of the tax revenue, oil revenues are, of course, the correct expression. But it's still a new line. I record that we have been criticized several times by the Labour Party leader to use too much oil revenue. So now the Labour Party's answer to that is to use even more. The representative Djupedal has made it a specialty to quote statements I have not given, and to attack statements I should give in a possible future. It is an impossible form of debate. I am not taking part in that kind of debate – about sordidness, fanciful quotations. I would like to add that the allocation to Finnmark is not a new relationship. It has been stated at the latest in posts by the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen that the conditions in Finnmark have always been difficult, not least in Coastal Finland. I might add a moment that Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen's representative did not have in mind, namely, the disappearance of Russian cod, which, of course, has made access to resources difficult. Taking up that relationship, I have considerable sympathy for it. On the other hand, we have somewhat less sympathy for the fact that the resource situation in North Norway – or the employment situation for that matter – would have been significantly alleviated by organising a concert in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e523	I took note of the somewhat cautious approach of the Council of State to the question of whether it should be a common way of dealing with the failure of income in the municipal sector, to address it in the new era. I note that the Minister of Finance believes that this should not become a habit. But then he allows himself to be amazed at the other parties on the Stortinget that are not part of this agreement. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have committed to such budgeting, but it seems almost as if the Minister of Finance would have preferred the rest of the increase to be held back and cautious. It's actually that when the principle is established in the budget agreement, we think it's right to compensate it all, and not just part of the whole. I must also say that it is strong, and well done, by a finance minister who has now run the economy, and who spends over 80 billion dollars of the oil fund this year, to have views on other parties' relations with that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e530	No, I'm not surprised at what SV and the Center Party are doing. I'm amazed at what the Workers' Party is doing, and there's something else. I record that in order to reach an agreement between three self-announced future possible government parties, we have found reason this time to use more of oil revenue than the large number and the government parties do. I perceive that as a new signal from the Workers' Party. I realize you can't print new taxes in December, it might have been the other way around, but that's the option if you don't want to spend more of your oil money. And the Workers' Party is now choosing to use more of the oil money. But let me just conclude by saying that I agree with the representative of Solberg that the normal management of changes in relation to forecasts in terms of tax revenue for municipalities is not to compensate for that. And the normal thing is not that the ejaculation is a new revised treatment. That is why we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e539	The next replicator is Morten Lund. Lund should have gotten away a little earlier with his line, but the president was not aware enough – and he regrets it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e544	President, it's forgiven! The tax deficit is high, and 3.4 billion of it falls into the municipal sector. There's a lot to talk about and discuss about. At least it's not the municipal sector's fault that these tax revenues fall away, but it's the one that gets part of the loss. The majority have agreed that the sum of the tax revenue and the 2004 framework grant may be DKK 1.2 billion less than that promised one year ago. That's a lot of money. But then the majority has calculated that lower interest rates, cheaper pay and lower price increases make up this difference. The question is then: if there is a higher interest rate, a more expensive wage settlement and more expensive goods, will the local government sector have this compensated for another year at the corresponding end of the year's budgetary procedures?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e553	Of course, the assessment of the needs of the local government sector for increased income will always take into account the income situation of the previous year. But let me add that questions were also asked in an article here about whether there is something wrong with the models of the Statistical Central Bureau and the Ministry of Finance – that was from the representative of Djupedal. Of course, they are reviewed professionally, continuously. But I've explained here that it's actually the company's dispositions – in particular, I've put emphasis on this with the right to drive, i.e. the ability of enterprises to deduct losses previously incurred, against profits, which have been used more actively in 2003 than in the past. Such behavioural changes are not the result of changes in the tax regime because no changes have been made that affect the right to drive. Such behavioral changes are difficult, not to say completely impossible, to predict in models.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e563	I understood through a short, small passion with the Right fiscal spokesman that under the sitting government it is no longer called harry money, it was under the previous governments. It's called prep money. That's interesting, but I'm not going to ask questions about prep money either. What is the point, and as the Minister of Finance's answer shows, is that it is fully possible, if the matter is mentioned and publicly debated, no longer to define it as a new matter. It can then be applied with full gravity to the effusion, even though it is not mentioned at all earlier. That's what the Minister of Finance replied to my line. I'm glad. This means that the phasing-out actually opens up a new budgetary procedure for matters that are still pending. I'm glad, because I think the situation in East Finland is so special that it's right to do it. I am also pleased that the Minister of Finance states that since the matter is publicly debated and discussed, it is to be seen as quite right. I also record that he has a partially offensive defence as to why he spends NOK 2.2 billion, without a deposit, to compensate for the local economy. I'm happy about that, too. So there is a new practice in two crucial areas during this debate and with this attitude, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e574	It is a pity in such an impending Christmas time to deprive the representative Djupedal of two joys, but he has no reason to rejoice over any of the conditions he summed up. The fact that conditions have been publicly debated and discussed is not in itself the reason, it must be the facts. The situation in Finnmark is serious; there is a broad consensus on this. The granting of public funds for the development of nutrition in the counties, or in parts of the counties, is nothing new. What is more new may also be that concert grants are taken as part of the new age, concert grants which at least do not justify either the economic situation or the international health situation, to say the least. After all, let me finally wish the members of the Committee on Finance and, in particular, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance a really good Christmas and a good new year – since this is the last round of lines, as far as I understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e588	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e593	The false tax estimates are only one of several elements of a strongly increased unforeseeable nature in the municipalities. It was in many ways a step forward when the municipalities introduced long-term economic planning a few years ago — and you can say in brackets: unlike the Stortinget. The municipalities were given a completely different overview of the consequences of the policy that was pursued at all times. In practice, this has been reduced to a pure exercise in a few years. As rapporteur in a municipality living under considerable economic pressure, I have learned that the predictability of the financial framework conditions is almost gone. The municipality has managed the blacklist that you would prefer to manage, but you have a feeling of living from hand to mouth – or from letters to letters from the Minister of Finance. I think it is remarkable that a government that talks so much about efficiency in the municipalities can sit calm and watch this development accelerate, and also help it accelerate. In addition to the false tax estimates, mention can be made of the VAT compensation and the bureaucracy that needs to be built around it. The municipalities have been given a completely new regime for the calculation of self-cost where applicable, which requires completely different economic shock cushions than they are able to have, in such wolf times as the municipalities are in. I must say that I am surprised that local rapporteurs, advisers and economic leaders have been able to anticipate developments that the Ministry of Finance and the Councils have not been able to predict. Now in the municipalities you are not so concerned about the models that are used. There has been a common perception that these tax estimates have been appropriate, because it makes the figures look better. I expect you to go into this, with the great consequences this unforeseeable has for Kommune-Norway. I think Stortinget must take inward that this is an unsustainable situation in the municipalities. It must be possible to trust that the financial assumptions, the expected revenue on the basis of which the Storting deals with the State budget, will actually be applied as a minimum for the year in which it is to be entered. The representative of Hill-Marta Solberg pointed out earlier that it is obviously easier to bring the money back than to secure municipalities' financial framework conditions that allow them to meet the challenges that are coming in advance. For the municipalities, it's not that much easier. For the municipalities, this is highly complicated. I hope that's a practice you can get away from.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e610	Finnmark has recently been mentioned more than usual, including here in the National Assembly, after the situation, especially in Vardø, was mentioned first on TV 2, then in the NRK and then in Akersgata. As a result, there has also been a case now in December in the national Parliament. There is reason to point out that over many years Finnmark has been through a development in which some individual municipalities have come out very unlucky. Vardø has lost 20.7 pst. of the residence in the last decade. But this isn't, as someone's been about, a phenomenon only in East Finland. Hasvik in West Finland has lost about the same – 18.9 pst. Másøy has lost 21,3 pst., Gamvik has lost 22,4 pst., and Loppa has lost about 16 pst. At the same time, we see that Alta has had an increase of over 8 pst. during the same 10-year period, which is more than the national average. If we go to Båtsfjord, we see that from 1993 to 2003, the municipality had some increase in the settlement. The really big decline came in the last year. This means that the image in Finnmark is much more differentiated than what you can get from this debate. Nor is it the case that the crisis described, especially in Vardø, occurred in December 2004. It's interesting to be able to go back – and we don't have to go that far – until 2001, when Stoltenberg was in Vadsø. The following can be read in Nordlys on February 27, 2001: ‘Stolenberg had no concrete promises in the suitcase. The drawer had to be realized by party colleague Leif Seipijärvi, city councillor in Vadsø, that the expectations were not met. – It is difficult to run election campaigns after this. We had hoped for some stronger signals. The inspiration for further Ap work is gone, he says." Then a situation is described where the same Seipijærvi says: «It has not been long since 40 houses were built here in Vadsø. Now a maximum of three is being built. It's clear this is going to affect everyone. There's no optimism here now. House prices fall. It's almost impossible to sell houses here now." So there has been a situation in a number of municipalities in Finnmark where you have seen much of the same regardless of whether we have had a labor party government or Bondevik as prime minister. When you listen to Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, it sounds as if the Workers' Party is responsible for a completely different fisheries policy from what the Government is doing. But for the majority of Finnmarkings, it is difficult to see any particular difference between the fisheries policy that was conducted with Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen as Minister of Fisheries or, for that matter, as Minister of Finance, and the policy that the Government is currently pursuing. However, it is gratifying if the Workers' Party is serious about giving completely new signals on the nature of the fisheries policy. In that case, a policy that was not in place when you were in government, and the description of the situation in the same municipalities was quite similar at the time, when the government of Stoltenberg was in power.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e633	There is no doubt that many are deserving of Christmas holidays soon. I believe that, in particular, that the Right's fiscal spokesman is absolutely in need of vacation, and he should use it to get his legs down on the ground and calm down. It is quite amazing to hear the representative Sanner standing on the platform calling for accountability and worrying about the use of oil money by other parties and talking about discipline, while he himself signed a budget agreement with the Progress Party, where he used $2.2 billion without a deposit. It's almost going to be a way! The fact is that, in my view, it is completely against recklessness – if I am allowed to say so – when he also mentions that the Government actually has an agreement with the Workers' Party for the current year. So, the Labour Party should have done what the government parties do. It is only a pity that the representative Sanner did not remember the agreement when he entered into a new agreement that meant that the year's budget broke with NOK 2.2 billion. It never heard of the Workers' Party as a budgetary partner. At the end of the day, my former wish for a Merry Christmas is on the table!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e645	That was comforting!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e648	I believe that there is every reason to call for accountability. We've done that throughout this four-year period. And our policy works. Just the policies pursued by the government parties have helped us to reverse the trend of rising unemployment, falling economic growth and pessimism under the government of Stoltenberg to a situation where Norway is characterised by optimism, increased employment, falling unemployment and stronger economic growth. I believe most strongly that it has been right to conduct a responsible economic policy. And the Workers' Party's behaviour during the new aging process, I think, makes it extra necessary to point out the need for accountability even in the time to come. When you listen to Hill-Marta Solberg, you hear two things: She says on the one hand that it really shouldn't have been awarded a single penny to the municipalities in the new age. But because the government parties and the Progress Party have concluded that we found it right to compensate for NOK 2.2 billion because of falling tax revenue, which was also known after the budget was presented, the Workers' Party believes that then you should spend NOK 3.4 billion. That logic doesn't really matter. And it remains for the Workers' Party to answer if you've put on a new line, where you're going to spend more oil money than the government's put up with. The representative Jens Stoltenberg has made it a big point in all his speeches that the Workers' Party does not spend more oil money than the government parties add. But in the new aging, the Workers' Party spends almost SEK 1.5 billion more on the oil fund, which is justified by the fact that the government parties have granted something in the new aging process. There is also every reason to question whether the Labour Party is really so concerned about the situation in the municipalities in 2004, as it was not addressed as a discussion theme when we negotiated the revised national budget. Then the Workers' Party had the opportunity, and then we also had the opportunity to cover it up. But I understand that the Workers' Party comes under a cross-buster when you're going to sit at the table of the Socialist Left Party, because Øystein Djupedal has sounded like he's happy that we've now received a third round of budget. So this is probably also a consequence of the new socialist option: that the Workers' Party becomes more populist and less responsible than the Workers' Party we knew before.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e659	The President will point out – not strongly, but nevertheless – that concepts such as ‘do not hang in touch’ and – earlier in the debate – ‘frenchness’, etc. we should perhaps refrain from using, especially now that it is the last meeting before Christmas. So the president's asking for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e662	No one shall say that the Right's fiscal spokesman has not learned the lesson. But I think he has to slow down the level of shaking a little, because there's something that's not right. I simply have a problem taking Jan Tore Sanner seriously in this debate. First of all, he says that the municipalities are out of control. Then he talks about that now we have to have discipline in the use of money, and then he addresses an appropriate index finger against the Labour Party and says that we could have come into the revised national budget this year, because then we negotiated with the Government to spend more money. We actually think that we should have given the municipalities more money for next year, so that they could keep up with the school and care provision, because that's until next year's problems are. But when one wouldn't allow the $3.5 billion that the Labour Party wanted, but only $800 million. kr, as the Government Party and the Advance Party will, it is necessary for the present year to take action to compensate for the tax error. And we're in on that. But it's not the Labour Party's wish that we don't allow any more money for the municipalities they need for the next year. That's what could have solved the problem. And then to come and talk about the agreement for the current year with the Workers' Party! I found it quite incomprehensible, when they forgot not only to brief us, but to talk about that they had made an agreement with the Progress Party for this year of NOK 2.2 billion. Then I understand that Per-Kristian Foss does not want to talk about cork discipline, innovation or innovation and in a way raises the voice a little in the end and says yes, yes, a concert in Tromsø is not what it takes to solve the problem. I think it's so unworthy to talk about a big deal that's very busy doing something for Finnmark, creating new jobs, helping municipalities do what they're supposed to do about services, care and schooling for next year. The problem we're facing is that there's not enough money in the municipalities for next year. And so the government has spent $80 billion on oil money! There have never been as many oil crowns as this government has used in these three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e669	We don't all remember everything the same time. But in order to freshen up Ballo's memory, I must remind you of the following: It is true that Jens Stoltenberg was in Vadsø in 2001, but the theme was not a coastal crisis, the theme was the fear in Vadsø of the closure of the county municipality, the relocation of the county office and the closure of state jobs. The Workers' Party responded to this fear was that we continued the County Municipality, we made it clear that Finnmark County and County Administration were to be continued, and it was ensured that government jobs related to the Road Office were continued as before. Vadsø has been very pleased with that. It is also right that I was Minister for Fisheries in 1996-1997. During that year, a financing scheme for the fishing fleet was put in place which allowed for 50 pst. grants in Finnmark, the number of farming concessions in Finnmark increased by 50 p.m., appropriations for fishing ports increased by 40 p.m., and the fishing industry that stood still in Berlevåg and Mehamn started after we tailor-made solutions, as I strongly appealed to the Minister for Fisheries to do. I hope it can contribute to Ballo's memory on a later occasion. So I have to say, like the representative of Solberg, that I'm very surprised to hear the Right fiscal spokesman. It reminds me most of one who is trying to repair virtue. So what's the situation? So the right has entered into a budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, which, first of all, solves a budgetary flake by making appropriations in the budget for the current year, which had budgetary agreements with others, as has been pointed out. However, at the time of the signing of this budget agreement, the use of appropriations in 2004 was increased by SEK 2.2 billion in addition to what the Government has submitted. So at that point, it was the argument that Sanner now used, he should be able to use it on his own. But then several parties in Stortinget have come to realize that it is right to provide full compensation for the municipalities in relation to the tax failure that has occurred. In principle, exactly the same thing as the government parties do, when it is considered that the amount should be proportionate to the challenge that lies there, and then suddenly it becomes a major problem for Sanner to give a budget allocation for 2004. I assume that the chairman of the finance committee has some insight into logic, and I hope and believe that he sees for himself that there is a total, logical flaw in his reasoning. It is likely that, here, there is a different assessment of the situation in the municipal sector, whether priority should be given to addressing the tasks that can contribute to better provision of welfare for the elderly, helping to improve school provision. I note that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the 2004 package, but not least in the 2005 package, prioritise tax measures, which have the effect of, for example: Older services are reduced and school services are reduced, strongly contrary to what has been said in the past. But that's a choice you make.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e682	The president noticed that the representative mentioned the committee leader, I think he meant Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e685	The representative Schjøtt-Pedersen claimed that his colleague from Finnmark Olav Gunnar Ballo had poor memory, but I think there may be more on the Finnmark bench who have poor memory, among others. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. He talks about it when he and the Workers' Party put in government, was rose red in Finnmark and in the Kingdom of Norway. I can tell you that I was a resident of Finnmark when Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was Minister for Fisheries, and that was the year in the 1990s when the population fell most in Finnmark. I think it might be nice to stick to the story. There are many politicians who have talked about opportunities in Finnmark. There has been a total lack in the debate. We are talking about the petroleum sector, about travel, about new fishing industries. You talk about the possibilities in Finnmark, you become optimistic about what you hear. It's interesting with those who want to be an alternative to this government – I don't know if they agree that it's the petroleum industry you're going to bet on. Now I also get the clarity here that investing in the fishing industry is something you totally disagree about. I'm not reassured as to what Finnmark can expect if there were to be another majority in Stortinget against assumption. I wish that this vision of the future was communicated elsewhere than in Stortinget. The government has granted 1 million. for the marketing of measures. As some representatives in this room have talked about Finnmark in the last few weeks, they have talked down the market value and the desire to invest in Finnmark significantly. It is true that in some coastal communities it is very difficult. But it is also right to point out that some municipalities in Finnmark are doing very well. There's a growth that you barely see in your husband's country. That picture is very unsound. In addition, I think it is very important that the government and government parties have done a lot for Finnmark in this period. Both Vardø and Hasvik, mentioned here, are conversion municipalities. More than 35 new state jobs have been created in Vardø, in addition to significantly improving the industrial framework, which was the direct reason for the return to activity in Båtsfjord – according to those who started up again. In addition, we decided on Tuesday to extend the action zone, including: with the subscription of the Student Loan Scheme. When the Government is about to drop 75 million. SEK for the follow-up of an enquiry Erna Solberg has made to the county municipality, the money is not to be disposed of in our opinion in Stortinget. Unlike the Workers' Party, which always has a plan, we always have a recipe from Oslo for how to get on the feet of Finnmark, which we have tried to communicate and have given for over 50 years, with the result that we all know, we want local actors, local businesses, local investors, local authorities to come up with suggestions on how to move on within these municipalities. It's not like the politicians in Stortinget are the best people to tell in detail or give a cookie recipe on how to solve the crisis in Finnmark. In that sense, you tell things that are not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e700	After hearing the Minister of Finance and Mr. Sanner explain what is the motivation, and how economic accountability should be defined, I have to say it's going to be interesting to see what this results in in the future. What you can understand is that as long as the government proposes it, or the government concludes an agreement with a party in the Storting, it is per. definition responsible. If this is SEK 2.2 billion in the current year's budget without any impact – which is actually to be used for next year – it is, as long as the Government proposes, responsible. If a new measure, known for a long period of time, which is publicly debated and mentioned, is taken, as the situation in Finnmark is, and is introduced into the effusion, it is all right. If that's the case, 6 million. kr to a concert in Tromsø, which is also mentioned and debated, and where there is even a separate position from the Financial Committee, it is no longer good. In a logic exam at one of our higher education institutions, this would be a bad idea. Because this, of course, is just crossing and twisting with words. The reality is this: we spend $81 billion more of the oil money in this budget. During that period Per-Kristian Foss has been Minister of Finance, we have spent more than DKK 100 billion more than a mechanical understanding of the rule of action would suggest. Large parts of the Storting will agree with much of this use of money, because it has been reasonable. But saying that lost tax revenue is in a different relationship to the treasury than an increased expenditure is a whole new way of looking at a budget. That means that if you've lost tax income, it's a lost income for the government. Yes, that's right, an increased cost is an increased cost to the state. In the context of government budgets, these are, of course, completely identical sizes. There's a hole that needs to be covered up. One hole is allowed to cover with oil money, the other hole is not allowed to cover with oil money – unless the Government agrees. Then it's responsible and okay. That means that when I say that there is a new practice in this budget in a third budgetary procedure, that is right. I went a little too far, I'm not happy about it. But I record that the government has added up to this, and they find reasons that do not keep water in a normal logical argument, nor in a political argument. It is necessary to point out. In particular, it is disappointing by the Minister of Finance, who has not yet answered one of the questions raised by the opposition in relation to the difference in this. On the contrary, in a semi-ironic tone, he keeps trying to say that the opposition is wrong here. I think it is necessary to point this out to the paltryness of this debate, because there will be an established practice that will make it very difficult for the government parties to say afterwards to the opposition that what we are doing is not responsible. The government has now de facto established a practice that we notice, and which we will of course be able to use to the extent that it will be possible to do so. We believe that the lost tax income of municipalities for the future should be compensated in the new era, and we will continue to be cautious about bringing new issues into the new era. I agree that you should be careful about that. This government has established a practice that I believe the Government should think carefully through, in particular the line of reasoning they use where one measure is good, while another measure is not good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e716	I understand that the election campaign has begun, after listening to this debate. It's obviously almost a question of who should be the best in the class, especially in relation to the municipalities. I listened to Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, who managed to get himself to say that you now have to start laying down jobs in the municipalities, as opposed to the previous ones. I want to bring this debate down to the level where it belongs, namely that everyone sitting in this room has a common responsibility both for the community economy, for the hospital economy and for all other important areas of this society. It is not that the difference between the adopted budget and the Workers' Party's alternative budget is heaven or hell on each side. It's rather the opposite of little things that separate the two from each other. I would like to stress that the Workers' Party cannot discharge its responsibilities. There was also a call for money from the local government sector when the Workers' Party had government power. It was a cry from the municipalities when Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was Minister of Finance, and it will probably still be. However, the Labour Party also has a responsibility for the municipal economy we are going to have in 2005, because it is 2004 which is the basis for 2005 and the 2004 budget is settled after negotiations with the Workers' Party. The Labour Party made efforts in its budget negotiations both to secure more money for municipalities and to secure more money for hospitals, just as efforts have been made in the negotiations on the 2005 budget. If you set up the results of the Labour Party negotiations against the results of the Progress Party negotiations, you can clearly see that things are moving in the same direction. I think it's respectful to announce that you now have to spend time focusing on the solutions in the future, rather than having this completely meaningless discussion about who did what at the time. It's a little fertile. I think, with all due respect, that it does not benefit the Workers' Party to run away from their responsibilities, both for the local economy and for everything else. If we take it as a starting point for these discussions, there will be a much more sobering debate and a much more correct debate than the one we have heard today. What's a fact anyway, is that the municipalities are added 2.2 billion more. Then we can discuss what kind of budgetary technique will be best suited, but at least SEK 2.2 billion will come to the municipalities, and I expect them to get legs to go on. Let us therefore make the debates on these issues a little more factual and a little more responsible than the level of the Workers' Party has now contributed to putting them on. Finally, I would like to return the pleasant Christmas greeting that was given by the Minister of Finance, and also wish the Minister of Finance a very good and peaceful Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e731	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's last contribution illustrates in a good way why the problems in Finnmark can become as extensive in individual municipalities as they become over time. If it's the case that in the opposition you have to be concerned about solving problems that you don't even admit when you're in government, it's of course completely impossible to have a continuity, regardless of what kind of government sits here, which means that the aid reaches the individual municipalities. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen claimed that it was ‘to refresh’ the memory to claim that the district uprising had little to do with the fisheries. In this respect, I would like to quote some of what was said in 2001, shortly before the government of Stoltenberg left. This was stated in Nordlys on 11 September 2001: ‘The Labour Party management has met with central arrogance signals and outputs from the basic plane. The fear of spending money has been obvious. Measures requiring small amounts of money have been rejected. Minister of Finance Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has taken the lead of the bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance and thus has made AP a accounting party, says the head of Troms Fiskarfylking, Robert Hansen. He's also 12th man on the AP list in Troms." The same newspaper reads: ‘North Norwegian Secretary Hans-Johan Dahl of the Norwegian Food and Beverage Workers' Association says Stoltenberg’s reaction to the Finnland uprising shows that the Ap leadership is unable to capture important signals.’ Schjøtt-Pedersen's posts today confirm that three years later the signals have not been captured. This means that there is reason to be concerned about the future, because if it is that you don't get involved with what is being described locally in terms of instruments, you won't be able to solve it in the future, even with a new government. What becomes absolutely necessary is to analyse the diversity that exists in the different municipalities. What I mentioned about Båtsfjord, is interesting, because a municipality that initially has a relatively solid fish industry on land, not only manages to maintain its settlement for a decade, but even increases it until that holding no longer manages, perhaps because of local conditions with bankruptcy and an insurance case. Giving a general description of Coastal Finland as if the whole coast is about to break up is like playing a piano with boxing gloves. It's a little suitable. We need to find targeted instruments that reach the individual municipalities, so that we can help them in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e751	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e754	First, a brief remark to the Chairman of the Financial Committee, Siv Jensen: ultimately, there is a question of priorities between what to do in the municipal sector to strengthen school provision, care for the elderly, etc., and what to want from other things in the budget. There's no way for the Progress Party to talk about choosing a scheme for the local economy in the year we're going into, which is barely enough to cover the additional costs of changing the population's composition. You have to take responsibility for that when you see the cuts that will come. So finally, representatives Ballo and Robertsen: The situation in Finnmark is such that I think it's not useful to file on who said what, and who did what, at exactly that and that time. For its own part, it might be very good to refer back to, for example: the situation we had in 2001 and that we actually made Vardø the city of conversion because a main problem at that time was the closure of state jobs. Later, this new crisis in the fishing industry has arisen, for which we believe it is necessary to take action. So maybe we should get together about these measures. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e761	It's been 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e764	... and then I'll join the general wish expressed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e769	I ask for the word to make a correction to the setting. There has been an error in an incurrency on page 28, in paragraph 6 Minority Proposals, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox On top. 571 item 60, it's going to be NOK 2780,000,000, and it's going to be capped. 572 minus 60, it's going to be 620 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e776	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e779	Just as a final reply to Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen: The Progress Party takes responsibility for the budgetary settlement we have concluded, and we take responsibility for our participation in the allocation of SEK 2.2 billion to compensate for the tax failure in 2004. And that's good! The local government sector has never received more money than they are now receiving for 2005. I think we should take that as a starting point for the debate. I also think we should send a greeting to the local government sector, because we are in the situation that Stortinget has rarely been more responsive to the local government sector and the responsibility to finance the primary tasks. But that doesn't mean we're just going to pee on the homeless. In fact, at the same time, we need to demand that the municipal sector also be able to use other instruments, both to streamline and rationalise its own use of money. There is no doubt that there are several unused instruments in many municipalities in the country in terms of money use. If the municipalities first began to concentrate on solving their primary tasks in a proper and decent way, I am absolutely convinced that a completely different use of money would be seen in the local government sector than the one you see today. This debate is multi-faceted, and it's not just that we should jump on the side of Stortinget every time there's a signal coming from some municipality about the need to jump. It must be possible to put some critical questions back, because we also rely on us to manage taxpayers' money properly and responsibly. I thought the Labour Party also agreed. But what I understand is that we are now going into the long campaign, where there is obviously nothing to keep neither the Workers' Party nor their potential partners from promising and promising with both hands. What we have experience of is that many of those promises tend to disappear into the blue when the taboos are taken after a choice, and at least I'm going to make sure to remind both Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and other workers' party representatives after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e788	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[Fotation, see page 1295]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e796	Then we go to voting on the matters that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e803	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The toll company is authorised to raise loans of up to 190 million. crowns to advance the construction of Rv 546 Austevolllsbrua.2. The Ministry of Finance shall be authorised to conclude an agreement with the tolling company on the repayment of the amount by means of an optical recording of vehicle passages after the completion of the project.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e1196	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 2, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2004 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PurposeCroner2309Future expenditure 1Operating expenditure, reduced by 5 310 221 000from NOK 5 352 723 000 to NOK 42 502 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e1258	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, are addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2004 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCrones 551Regional development and innovation:65 Coastal Finland Action plan, may be transferred, granted at 150 000 000 571Room grants to municipalities 60Population grants, increased by 980 000 000 572Rame grants to county municipalities60Population grants, increased by 220 000 000 5800 State petroleum funds [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2800)]] The President here draws attention to the fact that Hill-Marta Solberg has corrected the sums on top. 571 and cap. 572. The amount of cap. 571 item 60 shall be NOK 2780000000 and the amount capped. 572 item 60 shall be NOK 620000.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-17.ana.ud1236e2963	There is no record. The President would like to take the opportunity to thank all the representatives for their excellent cooperation in the six months that have passed, and hope that we will continue in the same way. The President will also take the opportunity to wish all the representatives with the family a good and peaceful Christmas weekend, and then we gather rested and fresh for the next half-year's session.
