ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e62	The representatives Anita Apelthun Seele and Audun Bjørlo Lightbakken, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e74	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Øyvind Halleraker. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e84	The representative Steinar Bastisen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e87	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal on electronic payment of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e92	Sales will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e117	As rapporteur for both the setting of St.meld. No 41 for 2003-2004, on exports of defence equipment from Norway in 2003, and the suspension of Document No. 8:33 in 2003-2004, on a temporary export ban for 12.7 mm of multi-use communication, I have chosen to deal with both of these issues in my post. I have seen that the media are now taking an interest in Norway's annual export of defence equipment. There has been little debate on these matters earlier in the years I have been the case rapporteur for these annual reports. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to make some points of view. You have to want a better world and peace on earth, but it doesn't keep asking the parties in a conflict to keep peace without the will of the world community to use power if necessary to stop fighting acts that go against innocent people. Is it as simple as anyone wants it to, that it's just to stop the trade in weapons or to limit this strongly, so will the world be nice and good? I don't think so. Norway is involved in defence cooperation in order to protect itself and its allies, and it is therefore important that we also have the weapons needed for this protection. It is also important that we train to use the same weapons in the defence of each country within the defence alliance, and that weapons are exchanged between these countries. The number of arms exports can be measured in heads and ears, or in balls and powders, and in relation to the countries receiving such exports, but the problem is not that simple. We have to deal with today's reality. Even if we want peace, it's naive not to be prepared for war. Most people want peace, but the means to achieve peace are different points of view. The world has gone a long way from the time when battles were fought with swords, to the development we see today, where one does not know what an enemy or a terrorist will use in his struggle to achieve a goal. But it must not prevent us from doing what can be done so that conventional weapons and ammunition do not end up in the hands of people who want to kill to achieve a goal. We also face people and groups who cynically employ new technologies to produce weapons for the purpose of attacking innocent civilians. The time when we knew where the enemy was, it's over, but it doesn't have to make us see ghosts in every hook. It is important to take precautions, and that we become more careful about who we sell weapons to. It's a saying that you have no peace beyond the neighbour's will, and that's what we have to deal with, whether it's politics, religion, tribes, ethnic groups, poor and rich, or fight for land and water. An ever-increasing population and an ever-increasing difference between poor and rich does not make the situation brighter, but neither does it justify killing innocent people to achieve their goals. In view of the unstable situation in many parts of the world, I agree with the Norwegian Peace Council that it is important to maintain strict control of arms exports and technologies that can be used to manufacture weapons and with which countries they are exported. But it must not make us passive. To quote Arnulf Upperland: ‘You must not tolerate so much, the wrong that does not affect you!’ When ‘bad’ with weapons attacks ‘smart’ without weapons, you should not just stick your head in the sand and hope it goes over. It is an international responsibility to engage in abuses and violations of human rights. Norwegian export controls are important to prevent weapons from being diverted and are based to a large extent on international cooperation in this area and on the commitments undertaken by participating countries. It is therefore gratifying that most developed countries, and hence the largest suppliers of sensitive goods and technology, participate in the cooperation. In the international context, Norway has relatively modest exports of defence equipment, and the Norwegian defence industry produces and exports to a small extent complete weapon systems. Components, parts, electronic equipment and explosives were the predominant part of exports. In today's situation, it is important that we maintain a high technological standard both on the weapons we export and those we import. It's better to be led was than for quick. Some would argue that too much money is spent on weapons and weapon systems, money that could have been used to improve the situation for many people. But the situation in the world is unfortunately not such that we can gamble with our security and defense, and that is this world to which we must relate. Multilateral export control has become an important tool in recent years to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the build-up of conventional military capacity that could threaten the stability and security of an area. Many of the armed conflicts in the world also appear to be becoming more bloody and prolonged through the administration of smuggled weapons. It is therefore important to develop measures against illicit arms trafficking, including: by improving border control against countries in conflict. It is also a growing concern for all the unregistered and illegal weapons that pose a serious problem in conflict areas, and therefore it is important that their removal must also be part of international cooperation. Here Norway has already started, and a quantity of weapons has already been collected through the weapons history period given this year. In the fight against terrorism, it is important to prevent weapons and technology from coming into the hands of groups or persons whose civil lives are aimed at promoting their cause. It is therefore still necessary to pursue restrictive policies on the sale of weapons and weapons technology. It is important that the Norwegian Export Control Code is reviewed with a view to carrying out a necessary update in order to face increasingly new political situations and that satisfactory evidence is available before export authorisation can be granted. This must also apply to goods related to maintenance, repairs and spare parts. We've been doing this for a long time, and we're glad that it finally seems that the ministry can present the review at the end of 2004. We'd like to discuss which weapons end up there, but it's kind of a derailment of the debate. The last thing that matters is to be able to defend itself against an enemy who attacks with weapons. When talking and requests don't help, we should be able to say: OK, we'll set up for those who are being attacked, if so with weapons. Only then will we be credible. That is why it is also called defence and defence. In order to provide resistance to attackers, research and technology must be at least at the level of the attackers. Many would say that this leads to upgrading and a new revolution of the upgrading coil. I want to say it this way: you have to relate to the world as it is, not as you would wish it were. The real threat today is not what we associate with conventional weapons, but the weapons you can't see and don't know where to hit. I am thinking here of fanatical groups who, in order to achieve their objectives, might think of using nuclear, chemical and bacteriological weapons and explosives that affect largely innocent people. They don't care to get a say in their case, whatever it may be. But the most dangerous thing is to close your eyes and hope that everything is okay when you open them again. The Progress Party sees that the information revolution is changing the framework conditions for war and conflict. In future conflicts it must be assumed that attacks on civil and military information systems will be a central element. Technological developments have made advanced technologies more accessible to politically unstable countries or other national and international groupings that may wish to use violence or threats of violence to achieve their intentions. The cost of using modern technology offensively is often relatively small in relation to the cost of defending itself effectively against or deterring such use. While the danger of electronic terror is increasing, we must also focus on the danger of developing and disseminating nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, the so-called weapons of mass destruction, and their means of delivery. The knowledge required for the production of biological and chemical weapons is relatively easily available and several countries aim to acquire such weapons and their means of delivery. The Party welcomes the establishment of a number of multilateral arms control regimes to prevent the use, spread and production of weapons of mass destruction. Unfortunately, it has proved difficult to establish effective control and monitoring mechanisms that can help ensure compliance with the agreements. Unfortunately, several countries have failed to join existing contract works. Norway is now a member of all five multilateral export control regimes and in addition implements all relevant UN and OSCE decisions. In the case of UN decisions, Norway complies with all arms embargo decisions, whether of a binding or non-binding nature. The Progress Party expects and assumes that this is a policy that the Government intends to pursue. The Progress Party welcomes the active efforts by the Norwegian side to promote greater transparency and transparency in international arms trade and a stronger attitude to the export of small arms. Multilateral export control has become an important tool in the last few years to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the building of conventional military capacity that could threaten stability and security in an area. Since 11 September 2001, international cooperation on export control and non-proliferation has taken a new turn. A number of initiatives have been taken to strengthen cooperation in the multilateral regimes. This is pleased with the Progress Party, and we expect the Government to follow this up. So a few words about SV’s proposal for a temporary export ban for 12.7 mm of multi-use communication from Norway, and the issues raised in this connection. Here the majority of the committee, all except the members of the Socialist Left Party, shows the experience of the Defence Research Institute in testing 12.7 mm of multi-use communication, the so-called Mk 211 multi-purpose ammunition. The Defence Research Institute has concluded that there is no basis for claiming that this type of ammunition violates the 1868 St. Petersburg Declaration. This has also been notified by the Norwegian authorities to the Red Cross in Finland, Sweden and Norway. There are also clear rules for exports of this type of ammunition. Such exports are managed at all times by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in accordance with the applicable rules relating to the export of weapons, ammunition and other military materials. When the NATO defense alliance uses 12.7 mm weapons against armored vehicles, it is natural that the alliance provides ammunition for the weapon. The majority of the Committee trusts that the Norwegian authorities comply with the rules applicable to the placing on the market and export of this type of ammunition and accepts the results obtained in the tests carried out to confirm the characteristics of this projectile in the case of estimates against humans and considers that, on the basis of professional considerations, it is not possible to support the proposal for a temporary stoppage in the export of 12,7 mm of multi-use communication. Finally, I would like to refer to the comments of the majority in the vote on St.meld. No 41 concerning exports of defence equipment and Doc. No 8:33 in the case of temporary stoppages in exports of 12.7 mm of multi-use communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e182	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e185	I found it very gratifying that the case spokesperson from the Progress Party signaled that one would have more openness and more insight into what is going on in the arms trade. The case spokesman said in his post that Norway has a relatively modest export. Now the numbers show that we have had an increase in the last three years. 30 pst. per 1 % years. So in the year 2000, the export was SEK 1.3 billion, and in 2003, we have an export value of almost NOK 3 billion. What does the case spokesman think is the main reason for this huge increase in arms exports from Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e194	The increase in arms exports is measured by SV largely in crowns and ears. It is a well-known fact that modern weapon technology is becoming more expensive and expensive, although perhaps not the amount is increasing so much. Now it's also a familiar case that SV would like to get out of NATO, but to get NATO ammunition to use in their weapons, I don't think it's leading. The answer is that it's more expensive technology, and it's becoming more expensive and more conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e199	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e202	Since it's November 9, I'll start by congratulating you on the day. Today, 15 years have passed since the first East Germans hit through the hated wall in Berlin between east and west, and the date of 9 November 1989 well marks a breach – or breakthrough – in history, not least in terms of defence and security policy. There are many who believe that there was an disorder that started here. I would say that was the new order of time we got after 1989. Today, both the EU and NATO are pan-European organisations. All European countries – and for that matter also the United States – reorganise and build up the old invasion defence. Fewer strengths, emphasis on quality, concentration, mobile strengths and lending of each other's material are key. Last week reported e.g. Der Spiegel about such extensive closures and changes in the German defence that the restructuring of the Norwegian defence becomes as small ripples on the surface. Following the NATO meeting in November 2002, the European NATO countries were told to cooperate on major material purchases to the Defence and to use each other's material, i.e. be complementary. This is also important in the debate we have today. There are also major challenges to the defence industry. Markets are shrinking, and competition is increasing. It's the buyer's market. In this situation, we also have a Norwegian defence industry that we need to protect. It is not only an important part of our preparedness; it is also important for technological research and development in our country. Both exports and lending of defence equipment were discussed during the process of the NATO notification in 2003 a few weeks ago, and also in the spontaneous Questionnaire the following day. It is an important debate. It is therefore both correct and necessary for the Government to submit an annual notification on Norwegian arms exports. The rules for exporting weapons are clear. We have a regulation that the Stortinget has unanimously adopted. It is the Government that is responsible for managing this legislation and taking the necessary decisions in relation to Norwegian arms exports. There are also clear rules that Norway should not export to countries where there is war or where war threatens. But it must be stressed that this is an exception for NATO countries, i.e. that there are no restrictions on exports and imports between countries in the alliance, which obviously has to be borne by any government. But here it's also going to be useful to use discretion. Let me add that, of course, the Labour Party has never led or will pursue a policy that will help weaken NATO or Norway's position in the alliance. Since its inception in 1949, NATO has been a supporter of Norwegian security policy, and will remain so in the future, as we are in the margin of Europe. In any case, checks and transparency must be optimised. In the view of the Labour Party, this will improve the management of the legislation. The law is there to be followed, but – as I said – there can be discretion. For example, gender has been used in relation to a country within the alliance, such as Turkey a few years ago. I would like to point out that a unanimous committee is pleased that export controls are also aimed at preventing goods and technology that can be used to manufacture weapons of mass destruction from being carried out in violation of Norwegian legislation, international agreements and international cooperation to which Norway has joined. This is an important part of the work on nuclear disarmament, also in preparation for the 2005 Conference of Supervisors on the Non-Proliferation Agreement and the Non-Proliferation Regime. Security policy is a field of concern to the security and security of Norwegian citizens and territories. Different areas require different arrangements. This is probably also one of the reasons why, for example: has the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. An area where the Storting has a special arrangement is connected with the secret services. There's a special control. The intention is precisely to ensure that the legislation is complied with to an even greater extent, that it is exercised in a necessary and sound manner and that it has the necessary anchoring in the legislative assembly. This was also the reason why the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party last year, when we dealt with last year's notification of arms exports, suggested that a possible control body be investigated even in connection with arms exports. Last year the Government Parties and the Advance Party voted against such a proposal. However, during the spontaneous Question Time of 27 October, the Prime Minister stated that the Government would like to discuss arrangements that could increase the transparency of the Storting. We think it is positive and welcome it. That is why we are now re-examining this matter and promoting the same proposal, to find out whether such a control body should be set up. I would like to stress that the Workers' Party has not taken a final decision on how this control body should be designed, who should sit there, what matters should be submitted, or other details of the scheme. We believe that the government should investigate that. It cannot replace – I would like to clarify – the government dialogue with the Storing in advance. It cannot replace any necessary democratic control on the part of Storting, for example. the Minister of Foreign Affairs comes to that conclusion with a case where there is a need to exercise discretion or where the Minister of Foreign Affairs needs an assessment from the opposition. What we asked for during the treatment of Innst. S. No 41 for 2003-2004, was that: ‘a politically complex advisory panel for arms export control is examined by the Government’. We also referred to the sample you have in Sweden, although Sweden is of course in a different situation than us because they are not NATO member and therefore do not have the same obligations. So we are promoting this proposal again, and it is based, among other things, on it. in the Prime Minister's statement, as I said. I would like to challenge representatives of the government parties whether they would like to support this proposal today. Norway is now a relatively large exporter of weapons. It can be discussed, cf. the previous row, the increase in exports of defence equipment. But our defence industry is a very central part of Norwegian high technology and part of Norwegian preparedness. It is very important that this technology does not get into the wrong hands. Norway must therefore maintain strict control of its arms exports. The Committee also states that it is important to maintain strict control of arms exports and technologies used in the manufacture of weapons and with which countries they are exported, given the unstable situation in many countries around the world. I would also like to stress the importance of the work being done to combat international terrorism. In the fight against terrorism, we have to be aware of playing on more strings, so we also have to be more than ever aware of preventing proliferation. I am pleased that a comprehensive Foreign Affairs Committee sees the importance of multilateral export control as an important instrument. Let me also address a very important and very topical problem area related to the placing on the market and trading of weapons. Today, the small arms are probably the worst weapons of mass destruction we have. For example, in Congo: killed half as many as under the holocaust. Our United Nations delegation in New York has been working for some time to control handguns during the disarmament work of the 1st Committee of the United Nations General Assembly. This is affordable, and here we have a great job to do. At the end: in the case of Document No: 8:33 from SV, I would just refer to the majority position of the committee, where reference is made to the JRC's testing and testing, and also to ‘that there are clear rules for exports of this type of ammunition and that such exports are managed at all times in accordance with the rules in force through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs relating to the export of arms, ammunition and other military materials’. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 1, which is distributed in the places.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e248	The representative of Marit Nybakk has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e253	First, I would like to endorse the main part of the representative Nybakk's contribution when it concerns both issues. I thought it was a tidy review of Norway's stand. But I must say that I am somewhat surprised that proposal No. 1 is now and does not come in the committee setting and because of a broader approach. The Christian People's Party won't say for itself that this can't be an interesting model, but we think this needs a different kind of treatment than being introduced in the hall. But since I assume that the proposal comes because of the one thing we've discussed a few times before, I would like to be confirmed by the representative Nybakk that such a selection would not have changed anything in relation to the matter that was then being discussed, namely, the arms lending to the United States. This is talk in retrospect and would in general not have affected it. I would like it to be clarified in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e258	As I said in my speech, it is absolutely necessary for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to have the opportunity to go to the Stortinget or to the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee and present matters which he believes might be relevant to discussing with the opposition. Personally, I believe that the issue of lending arms to the United States should have been presented in appropriate forums and discussed with the opposition. Then it may have been that the matter had another outcome. The Labour Party has not taken a decision on what this sample should look like or on how it should be composed, but we are talking about an inspection body – it is quite right, as the representative Lilletun says – because we cannot intervene in the democratic process that sometimes has to be between the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Stortinget or in the Stortinget as such. But we believe it is important to have such a control body, and that it will also strengthen transparency about export and loaning weapons. It will strengthen democratic control, and it will probably also lead to a stronger and more cautious attitude on the part of any government in such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e265	The representative of Marit Nybakk took up the loan of weapons to NATO countries in his contribution. I would then like to ask myself the question: shall NATO aircraft used in conflict areas and having Norwegian parts be put on the ground? Are parts of ammunition manufactured in Norway for use in the NATO alliance to be prohibited if it is used in a conflict area where Norway does not agree to participate at the exit point? Then to the proposal. My opinion is that we don't need another control system in addition to the ones we have. It will only lead to more bureaucracy and less ability to act. I also think that we should use the ones we have, and rather streamline them better.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e273	To the last question I will refer to my answer to the representative Lilletun. I believe that I made it quite clear why the Workers' Party believes that we should set up such a body, and why we ask the Government to investigate different models and come back to the Stortinget with it. As far as the first question to the representative is concerned, this should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Before NATO, we do not have any restrictions on lending arms technology or defence equipment, nor on exports. In fact, lending between the various NATO countries is very large and will increase due to the Prague Capability Commitment decision at the NATO meeting in November 2002, but there may be some cases where it is absolutely necessary for the Foreign Minister to exercise the discretion that he or she consults the bodies of the Storting and that one should perhaps be careful with lending.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e280	I am very pleased that the leader of the defence committee said it was right to use discretion, but that should also be an exception. Turkey was there in NATO. Our top principle is, as the leader of the Defence Committee also said, that we should not export where there is war or conflict. But then there are exceptions, so situational things come in. But what SV has proposed, which is a situation in which both the majority of the population and the majority of the population are opposed to such a war, is it not also a situation in which one should have used discretion? And if the leader of the defence committee agrees with that, wouldn't it also give the Labour Party an opportunity to support that proposal, that if that is the case, it should also be possible to use judgement?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e287	Such proposal No. 2, from SV, is designed, we would actually have had to resign from NATO, as I read the proposal. We believe that today's legislation should be maintained, that there are basically no restrictions on lending or selling defence equipment within NATO countries. But again, I want to point out what I've said before, that it's actually both to use discretion and to use the wit in individual cases, and to consult the appropriate organs of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e294	SV's proposal, No. 2, sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make it clear to the Norwegian Allies in NATO that Norway will not feel obliged to lend or sell military equipment to allies involved in a war that the majority of the population does not support and/or that the majority of the population does not believe to be sufficiently anchored in the International Law.’ Does the representative Nybakk think that there are no situations in which Stortinget, as under this proposal, can limit the sale or lending of weapons to allies? Or should this responsibility lie exclusively with the government, as an opportunity to exercise a discretion based on the existing established legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e304	The Labour Party has no intention or proposal to amend the legislation that we have today, where there are initially no restrictions on loans or exports between the various countries in the alliance. However, there is something different than what the representative Bjørklund finally mentioned in his reply, if it is not possible to use discretion in individual cases. It is quite obvious that there may be cases where it is difficult to deliver defence material to an ally. I would like, among other things: refer to the discussion about Turkey some years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e309	I note, and it was with pleasure that the representative Nybakk clearly confirmed in his reply to the signature of my first line that a selection that was named would not have changed the situation around the loan to the United States in the matter that had been discussed earlier. But then the representative Nybakk started to sketch how a person thinks about this body. What is stated in the proposal is that one asks the Government to ‘determine whether it should be established’ such a selection. I'm assuming that someone meant the word here, and that one of them didn't come to a conclusion from the Labour Party. Here one actually asks for it to be distributed. It also includes history – interestingly – that Sweden, which has such a choice and is not a member of NATO, decided after the United States had decided to go to war in Iraq, to continue exporting to the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e316	I think it's important, first of all, that we have a very high degree of transparency about arms exports and arms lending, but within the framework that exists in terms of things being graduated, and that we should be careful in that regard. We are therefore asking for an analysis of ‘if a politically complex advisory body is to be set up that can control arms exports’. We all believe we're going to make it. With regard to the debate two weeks ago, it may also be that just having such a body will result in more government consultations, which are, of course, responsible according to the legislation adopted by the Stortinget, so that there can be more dialogue between the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the one hand and the bodies of the Stortinget on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e323	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e326	Not selling weapons to countries or regions where war or conflict threatens is an overriding principle for the sale of weapons from Norway. This highest principle is in practice broken by our alliance with NATO, where we practice halls and loans with few exceptions. We have come up in the dilemma that they so-called modern wars see us in, that popular opinion is against the war, just as the Norwegian government was when she said no to participate in the pre-purchase attack on Iraq. The Norwegian government was against the war, but participated with weapons because the highest principle was evaded by our alliance obligations. We actually joined in a war we opposed. That is why today, on the SV side, we are tabling a proposal to try to prevent this happening again: ‘The government is asking the government to make it clear to Norway’s allies in NATO that Norway will not feel obliged...’, etc. We mean that when situations arise, we should be able to say no. It appeared earlier in the fall that Norwegian weapons were for loaning in connection with the war. In SV, we understand that many people in Norway want us away from such a situation. This proposal meets our demand and gives us a room for action to be against international wars in practice. When this was debated earlier in the fall, both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister were almost presented as if this were a sort of expedition case for Norwegian authorities. We shouldn't care so much about this, we shouldn't have any public attention around it. Is it really like that Norway doesn't have any discretion? And how could it be that even defence officials have said that one was dependent on UN approval and on Norwegian authorities in order for this loan to be implemented? Is the political discretion of those added to the Defence greater than in the political environment? From the SV's point of view, there should be much more openness on these issues, not in the sense that one should approve in the public debate every single loan of military material between NATO countries, but that one should see that the principle is transparent and open debate. We wonder in SV why this matter was not drawn up directly and in openness in Stortinget. At least through the media and through what the different parties meant, people would have a chance to see how we handled these things. So there was a situation around the fact that the United States went to war on March 20, 2003, where, of course, it would have gained considerable public attention if one had known that while the Prime Minister was standing at the Stockholm Chair on March 21st and did well that this was a war that Norway thought was not in line with international law, the Norwegian laser painters were helping the United States hit its bombing targets in Iraq. It has been claimed several times that SV has not taken note of this before. In the previous debate we had on arms exports, I showed clear figures from the Statistical Central Bureau that showed that trade in several product types of defence equipment to the United Kingdom and the United States made strong jumps in January and February last year, just during the admission to the Iraq war. We also wanted to suggest that in the next report there would be an even clearer picture of what weapons and ammunition types Norway exported for use in the Iraq war, despite our principle of not trading with countries in war. We should at least have a more honest debate, I said in the previous debate. I did not find the message that has now come, but I did fulfill the promises that were then given. Had she done that, we would have avoided the situation that occurred earlier in the fall, where this with these latrines was revealed. Recent figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that during the first two months of 2003, while the United States was on the verge of war, the US imported Norwegian weapons for a total of 28 million. kr. Sales to the United Kingdom have also increased considerably over the same period. Only in the first two months of 2003 did the British Government buy as much Norwegian weapons and Norwegian ammunition as it did throughout 2002. The growth in the U.S. Arms Hall is 132 p.m. in 2003 and must therefore be seen in the context of the Iraq war and increase US policy on aggression in general. In the opinion of SV, the export of Norwegian weapons for use in the Iraq war should never have taken place. This export is contrary to Norwegian export policy in the area, and we sold the weapons to the aggressors knowing that the intention was to use the weapons in an illegal war. I should just take a little look at how Norwegian arms exports can fit other parts of Norwegian foreign policy, namely development policy. Because it can also break with goals we have there. It is reasonably clear that upgrading in developing countries too often leads to less stability and security, no more. This is of course particularly important in countries where there is war, and there is also an important reason why Norway has a legal ban on exporting arms to such countries. Nevertheless, our allies are running with such large-scale exports. From a Norwegian perspective, it is interesting that Norway’s main cooperation countries in the aid sector are often recipients of weapons from NATO countries. The United States' exports to Colombia, Nepal, the Philippines and Israel are a familiar matter. The Czech Republic exports weapons to Mozambique, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, Bangladesh and Nepal, i.e. to six of Norway’s seven main co-operation countries in the aid sector. Czech exports are worth millions of dollars. Of course, if not impossible, the amount of development of these exports is difficult to estimate. At the same time, the link between the availability of weapons and the absence of development is well documented, and Norway should therefore actively counter such irresponsible arms trafficking. The least you can do is to make sure that there is no Norwegian-produced weapon feeding Norwegian aid partners. The problem of weapons in relation to sustainable development will be great as long as international arms trade is not regulated better. In addition to the ones I mention, the Czechs have included their export lists in the last three years of Eritrea, Côte d'Ivoire, Sierra Leone, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Iran, Israel, the Philippines and Syria. Slovakia's exports include, inter alia: Bangladesh, Syria, Iran and Israel. No formal guarantee against re-exports to unwanted recipients of Norwegian weapons is currently required by NATO members and Nordic countries. This has resulted in that 81 pst. Norwegian exports of weapons and ammunition were based on blind trust in 2003. Given that Norwegian export control seeks to control all exports of technology that may be significant for the development, production and use of military capabilities in other countries, this represents a large hole in Norwegian export control. I will take up the proposals before, and I will be in a later article at Mk 211.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e345	The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e350	I have a question for proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox It says that ‘Norway will not feel obliged to lend or sell military equipment to allies involved in a war that is not supported by the majority of the population’. In practice, one will stop all defence industries in Norway. No one dares to take the chance to buy equipment from Norway when one is not sure to have spare parts or components. It is therefore interesting to read in the guidelines for the sport of war materials in Sweden. It says the following: «Member States purchasing defence equipment from Sweden shall continue to feel confident in the future that any additions in the form of additional equipment systems, spare parts, components or ammunition may be delivered without restriction.» Does Jacobsen see Sweden's practical approach if you want a defence industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e361	Norway is the largest arms exporter in the world. capita. In total we are approx. in the 11th place of the statistics on who exports the most weapons. Norway's defence industry is facing enormous surpluses. We have 30 pst. annual increase in the defence industry. I do not see proposal No. 2, from SV, as any threat to Norway's defence industry. It is also a guarantee that this industry is part of a serious industry – with which we are to carry out post-control. Where do they finally go, these weapons? And not least: if there are conflicts that are opposed to both the people and the government, then we will not participate there with Norwegian weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e366	The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, in his speech, raised Norway's attitude not to lend or sell arms to countries in conflict or war. Here are the great interpretation possibilities. And in my view, you have to use a great deal of discretion. Or does SV think that a country that gets attacked and goes to war will not be helped by a defence salliance if it asks for it? Is it just that'shit au, they're gonna be okay', even if it's against all human rights not helping?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e371	I would like to remind the representative of Stensaker that there are, in fact, international wars mentioned in the proposal. That's what we want to guarantee ourselves against from SV's side, that Norway should not participate in wars that are contrary to international law. So, of course, we're also adding that if the government, the big crowd and the population of Norway are against a war, we're going to have the opportunity to oppose the war not only in the spirit, but also in practice, by not exporting weapons to this war.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e376	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e379	It may not be necessary to assure it, but export licences for weapons are attached to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so you can ask why people from the Defence Committee are involved in the debate. I'm doing it out of the clear message from a large, large majority here in the house that the export of Norwegian defence equipment gathers broad support. I would like to talk, within those limits, about the importance of the Norwegian defence industry, not only for the defence of our country, but also for the general development of industrial competence in Norway. Yesterday we had an open hearing on the defence part of the state budget, including. Norwegian defence suppliers, and their presentation of the situation for industry, are in stark contrast to what we heard now, about an industry that is said to have adventurous profits and almost full order books. That was the very opposite signal we got from the Norwegian defence industry. I simply think that you have to notice, on Kongsberg, on Raufoss, in Mandal or in Narvik, for example, the attitude that SV takes, and, fortunately, that they stand alone with that attitude towards the Norwegian defence industry in Stortinget. The claim that their proposals would secure the Norwegian defence industry is a kind of double communication that I believe the defence industry itself will be able to reject quite definitely. I would like to refer to what Marit Nybakk, the head of the Defence Committee, said, that the SV's proposal really means a release of NATO. So I guess we can also say that the signals that have come a little bit here and a little bit in recent times, that SV can live with NATO membership, at least not communicate in today's debate. It is important to ensure Norwegian corner stone companies for the production of defence equipment. Most countries just use the high-tech defence industry as a means of developing general industrial competence also in the civil sector, or perhaps especially in the civil sector. We have international cooperation on defence equipment and technology with NATO and the EU. We also have a Nordic defence cooperation, with Sweden, Finland and Denmark, and the North Sea cooperation, where Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom are with Denmark. This is defined in a field and to an extent that ensures that we operate within the law that is in force. Finally, I would just like to mention that the representative Bjørn Jacobsen failed to respond to the reply from Gunnar Halvorsen, where Gunnar Halvorsen referred to the attitude that Sweden has towards such things. I think, if he is going to have the floor several times, that he could clarify whether SV supports the Swedish guidelines, which thus guarantees the recipient countries' supplies if necessary. If not, as Gunnar Halvorsen said, it is simply the hook at the door of the Norwegian defence industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e394	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e397	We had a round 14 days ago here in the hall, first during a NATO debate and then in the spontaneous question hour, about both the export and lending of defence material. In the spontaneous question hour of 27 October, the Prime Minister went very far in saying that he would look at this again with a possible control body, and that he would look at a greater degree of transparency about this with exports and lending of weapons. There is today a proposal on the table which reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to determine whether a politically complex advisory body should be set up to control arms exports, as is the case in Sweden. [[Export Control Board]] I would like to ask whether the Right would like to support such a proposal, which is now on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e409	I don't need to say anything more than what Jon Lilletun said in a corresponding line chord exchange in this word change. The Workers' Party's proposal is simply to determine whether a politically complex advisory body should be set up. Lilletun asked quite specifically whether the proposal was in the view of the Workers' Party. He did not get an answer to that. And that would be my answer at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e417	In the nations on 4 February this year Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik said about Mk 211, Multipurpose, from Nammo: ‘We want to find out more about this and make contact with the Americans. These weapons are not intended to be used against personnel. If used in this way, it is not in accordance with the Norwegian meaning thereof.’ The question is, did the Prime Minister wrong when he said this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e427	The Prime Minister is usually not mistaken. I have not specifically reproduced the newspaper article to which Bjørklund referred, but I assume that it is entirely in line with what the Prime Minister said in the debate in Stortingen in relation to the mixing of roles between government and big business. If the Government needs advice, it can, of course, use the extended Foreign Affairs Committee and he promised that he would like to consider other forms requested by the Workers' Party. I think it is very concrete and clear what the Prime Minister has said in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e436	The problems associated with the export legislation are, of course, that it is difficult to define when we come into situations where we do not want to sell, and it is difficult to gain sufficient transparency and political control over the exports that are going on. So look at the representative hereafter against the needs of the industry. I also understand, of course, that the industry needs it. If a cell, one should also be able to sell spare parts. So I totally get it. It is not difficult to understand the needs of the industry. But do the Bears really think here that we are going to have international law, we're going to have government, we're going to set big ones, we're going to put the people aside? If the people really think we shouldn't participate in this war, will this be set aside for the benefit of those who make money on arms exports? We're talking about an export, an industry that's traded for thousands of billions of dollars a year, while we spend 50 billion on aid. Does he really mean that this should put aside the plight of the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e446	I guess it wasn't that stupid anyway that I referred to in my post at the outset that it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issuing licenses for the export of weapons, and that the broad, broad majority of the Stortinget – all except SV – provides assurances about, and of course supports, the regime we have for this type of sale. Taking the width of it – if you're going to use the word – that Bjørn Jacobsen is doing here is completely meaningless. We do not export weapons within the limits that Bjørn Jacobsen pulls up. There's something going on in his own world of performances.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e451	I would like to refer to a quotation. In the Question Time on 27 October, the Prime Minister expressed his willingness to engage in dialogue with the Stortinget and answered Stoltenberg's question: ‘I would like to discuss with the Storting Schemes for Transparency by the Storting on such issues, if the Storting wishes.’ What does the representative herenees think about the wish of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV related to an export control committee for greater transparency?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e461	It is nice that SV is also concerned with the Workers’ Party’s proposal – even if they themselves are involved. But the proposal therefore states that it is necessary to ask whether such a body should be set up. As this debate has fallen, I assume that it will be clarified in the course of the debate what the Workers' Party will do with the proposal, whether they have received signals from the government parties that make them think that this proposal can take a different form than to vote in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e466	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e469	We got a heated debate on the discussion of the NATO loan and exchange of equipment between NATO countries, and I get a feeling that that's why the Workers' Party is now promoting this proposal. As the representative of Lilletun said earlier, we will not reject the establishment of a politically complex advisory body to help control arms exports. I hear now that Marit Nybakk challenges the representative here and asks whether the Right is for such a selection. But I understand that the Workers' Party has not yet decided whether they are for a sample. They want it figured out. I have to ask Marit Nybakk why this proposal was not promoted during the examination of St.meld. No 41 for 2003-2004. Then we could have been sitting and thinking and figuring this out and perhaps getting a little closer to a solution. The proposal came in the middle of the debate on something quite different, namely the lending of equipment internally between NATO countries. Such a selection will have no effect on this practice, which has been long-standing and has been followed by different governments. This appears to be a small diversion from the Workers' Party, where it should appear that the party has already long since made proposals that would have prevented what was reported on the NRK on the same day as the Stortinget discussed the NATO communication on laser meter lending. That's not the case. The SV's proposal would have prevented this, but it would mean an announcement by NATO, which the representative Nybakk also agreed with. That's what SV always wanted, but I actually thought it was on the shelf now. SV and the Working Party believe that there are many different things – including about the selection. It came out the same day that this debate was raised, when the Workers' Party said they would have information afterwards, while SV would have an assessment in advance. Jens Stoltenberg said that day that he could not say that a working party government would have behaved differently from the current government. Then he stressed that such a weapon export selection should be informed afterwards, but it was about arms exports. I believe that it is very important to clearly distinguish between such an advisory body for arms exports and what goes on the long-term practice of lending arms between NATO countries. I believe that Marit Nybakk is doing this together a little bit when she starts talking about how to exercise discretion in some cases. The representative of Nybakk said earlier in this debate that lending is very extensive and that it is increasing. She said that there may be a need for ‘the Minister of Foreign Affairs to exercise the discretion that he or she consults the bodies of the Stortinge’ in relation to lending. This is very unclear. That's what Stoltenberg warned against. It would make responsibilities very unclear whether such a selection would authorise the sale of weapons in advance. And now it seems that such an advisory body will help the Minister of Foreign Affairs to exercise discretion in lending arms between NATO countries. I have to ask the representative Nybakk to clarify what she means. Does she believe that such an advisory body as she asks the Government to investigate will help the Minister of Foreign Affairs to exercise discretion in relation to the long-term practice of lending arms? Regarding the SV's proposal for a temporary export ban for 12.7 mm of multi-use communication, I ask questions about the SV's characteristics of the Swedish Defence Research Institute. It is underlined that there is doubt about their tests, and you require neutral test results. Understood: FFI is not neutral. I have to ask, how does the SV in the government position relate to the FFI? Will one then continue to claim that research from there is not neutral? Or will SV try to direct this research?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e483	First, I would like to ask the representative Rise to read proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox It is a proposal from the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, and it is exactly the same proposal as last year. The debate on lending armaments to the United States in the context of the Iraq war updated, in the view of the Labour Party, above all the need for greater transparency and greater control. As I said in a previous reply, I believe that such an inspection body will also lead to more dialogue between the magnificence and government on such matters. This does not mean that we believe that we should pre-check everything that happens from lending and exporting weapons from Norway. It is under the responsibility of the Government. But there may be some cases that are difficult, and we can sometimes come up with such situations in [[President clubs]] Mr Stoltenberg said on 27 October that last year the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Centre, proposed the establishment of an advisory committee on arms export control. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e492	The President requests that the speaking time for replication be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e495	I actually did not understand the question asked by the representative – was it a question that was asked at the end of the line? The representative Nybakk was about to be clubbed down here, so I did not hear what she asked about at the end of the article. I don't know if it's possible to ask for another question. Otherwise it was mainly I who asked Nybakk, so that when she had the word, the whole line was an answer to me. I waited anxiously for the question, but I did not get it with me when it came. So I don't know if it's possible to get it one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e502	The president thinks there'll be enough answers from Lars Rise in this round. But Marit Nybakk is free to sign on the roster.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e505	The representative of Nybakk will probably clarify the question again. In this case, the government has been trying to pretend that the debate on the loan of weapons and arms export selection is fourteen days old, but the proposal on arms export selection is not a new date. It's been promoted before and down before. But I want to go back to March 19th last year, where the class struggle writes: ‘Lars Rise, Foreign Political Spokesman of the Christian People’s Party, joins SV’s Kjetil Bjørklund in the view of arms exports to the United States. He is in favour of weapons boycotts by countries that go to war in violation of international law." When did the representative take his new position? That's not the first thing. In 1996, the Christian People's Party, together with the SV, presented proposals for, inter alia: the introduction of retail declarations, with a re-port clause for all those who were to purchase military material from Norway. I would like to ask for a comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e520	I have now spoken to the representative Nybakk. I actually answered the question in my post, because I said we're open to such a sample. So we fully agree with what Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik said in the spontaneous Question Time. But I did miss a deepening of what I asked for: how can the representative Nybakk say that the Minister of Foreign Affairs must come to Stortinget and get the help of such an advisory panel to exercise discretion in lending arms? This was extremely unclear and completely contrary to what Stoltenberg said. To the representative Bjørklund: The essay in the class struggle is, of course, far too clear between the two of us. I have explained to you that the class struggle received a correction from me. They misinterpreted my statements completely. This has been resolved a long time ago. In my interview, I did not even touch what is happening between NATO countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e527	I'm not going to stay with the representative Rise's different crunches and changed attitudes to foreign policy issues over the last few years. Let me just make it clear that the Workers' Party is asking for an inspection body to be found out when it comes to arms exports, in line with what you have in Sweden. It must not prevent the Minister of Foreign Affairs from having the freedom to come occasionally to the appropriate bodies of the Storting and consult the opposition on difficult questions relating to the lending or export of weapons. I now understand that the representative Rise is open, in line with his prime minister, for such a selection. I would like to ask whether the Christian People's Party will now – as they apparently did a few years ago – vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e534	I did not sit on the Stortinget when the Christian People's Party voted in favour of a similar proposal, which I understand also contained the requirement for an end-user certificate. But this was also addressed with Prime Minister Bondevik in the spontaneous question hour. He stressed well then that there is a learning going on over time, and in particular by entering government offices and dealing with such matters. He said right away that this was something that he would not go in for today. He calculated that SV might also have to adjust a good part of its policies and proposals on the day they enter the government. It's already become clear. When SV now says that they will no longer require Norway to leave NATO, that is, in practice, what they are proposing in the proposal that is on the table here today. So I think that's a little bit strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e539	I seem to register that the representative Rise shows some interest in this export committee, and that is nice. But back to the previous question. I have not seen in this year and a half any dementia in the Norwegian press from the representative Rise related to the issue of the ban on the export of weapons to war countries. I just wonder, how is it to misunderstand such a question of an export ban linked to allies who are at war in violation of international law?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e546	It is all right for me that we can also take a thorough explanation of this in the hall and repeat what we have done earlier on a two-man basis. I wrote a very clear correction to the Class Fight at the interview that was under pressure about a year and a half ago. The correction was not printed. But if Bjørklund is in doubt about what I mean, he would like to be allowed to be with me down in the office and see the correction that was sent to the class struggle, which did not come under pressure. Then he shouldn't be in doubt anymore. I actually thought, by our clarifying conversation earlier, that you seemed calm and satisfied with the answer. But it's nice to be able to repeat this in the hall. And you are cordially welcome down to my office afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e551	The President would point out that not all the forms of appeal of the representative are appropriate in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e554	I can't push myself, because this is completely absurd. It must be the case that the representative Rise says from Stortinget's pulpit, has a draft post that was not printed in the class struggle a year and a half ago. In fact, on the basis of its moral and ethical guidelines, the Christian People's Party believes that Norway is obliged to lend arms to an ally who is in a war that the Christian People's Party believes is not in conformity with international law. That's the heart of the matter. That there is anything related to the Christian People's Party's morality and ethics in all other contexts is completely incomprehensible for SV. That it should also be that this is, in our opinion, an immoral position, an immoral position, which we are forced to take because we are members of NATO, is heard especially in our ears. Is it really such that the Christian People's Party believes that there is no room for discretion if a government is asked by an ally to lend military material to a war that is contrary to international law?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e561	Kristin Halvorsen describes moral dilemmas here in a special way. What I said in my article earlier was that I have blacked the class fight. That is a position – what it says is what Mr Rise stands for in that debate, and also what I said earlier in this debate. In the case of a government to lend equipment to other NATO countries, Norway has committed itself as a member of NATO to lend equipment. There is something that SV will also have to bend to in the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e573	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e576	I think I'll limit myself to commenting on a few of the jumping points in the debate. I just want to be allowed, before I do, to express satisfaction with the fact that a broad majority of the committee has given the Government a say in assessing the issue of 12,7 mm ammunition. I understand that here's the orientation we've given from the Government, a majority in the Storting. As far as the other questions are concerned, they relate to the two proposals presented in the Chamber, which are not contained in the documents. I would just like to say briefly that it is proposal No. 2, from SV, which in many ways is the dramatic proposal, in the sense that it changes significantly the policy in this area. I can see nothing but that it raises the whole retail issue, which is not a simple question, considering the description Marit Nybakk gave of how lending arrangements are going to become more important and important in modern defence. Of course, I fully respect SV's proposals, and I'm not going to polemise against this right now. It is not unnatural for SV to believe that in its context. But the interesting question is whether or not that proposal will survive next year's election day, whether or not it can be expected that in that case this will become part of a policy that a new government will follow. If that's an opportunity, I think it requires a lot more deep discussion than what this debate has expressed. But it's clear that here you're faced with the fact that the interesting thing is probably not whether SV has put its NATO position in the drawer or not. They've clearly expressed that. But the question is how they will deal with their alliance policy on a daily basis, and that's what's dramatic about this case. As far as the second proposal is concerned, namely proposal No. 1, I would like to say first that I was a bit in the mood when I heard Marit Nybakk mention the proposal verbally as if this was an investigation of how a possible control committee could be organised. The proposal is, of course, a question of whether to have a control committee at all. There are two quite different realities you're facing. I want to say that from the Government side, of course, there is a strong desire to be as open as possible, and to have as good a dialogue as possible with the Stortinget. That's the background to the two formulations that the Prime Minister had in the spontaneous question hour. Among other things, he said:\t\t You ‘We are willing to see if one in this message can also include more information on lending.’ Of course, we're going to evaluate that. And he also said the following: «We like to discuss with Stortinget schemes that can increase transparency, but I just want to draw attention to the fact that in the case of loans, this is very extensive and, to some extent, also of a lesser nature, and it can be very detailed.» I would like to confirm that we would like to discuss arrangements that can increase transparency. I must admit that I am still skeptical about a selection proposed by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party will be a particularly suitable instrument in this way. On the other hand, I'm going to give it a new thought – for all things, I'm going to do it – but I think we also need to look for other ways to give the Storting more insight. But I would like to come back to that when we discuss this on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e598	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e601	Like the answer I received from the representative Lilletun, I also see the Minister for Foreign Affairs as quite positive to join in and assess whether a control body should be set up. It is true that different areas of security policy sometimes require specific arrangements. We have the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, as I said in my article. We also have a special system in connection with the secret services. There is a special control body, where the intention is to ensure that the legislation is complied with to an even greater extent, that it is carried out in a necessary and sound manner, and that what is happening has the necessary foundation in the legislative assembly. I would like to ask whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that this is important also in terms of the export of weapons. Although we have clear rules not to export to countries in war, but with the exception of allies, it may be appropriate to have a control body that also helps to strengthen the decisions taken by the government regarding the licensing of exports.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e610	The very parallel to the secret services seems to me to be very limping, also because in the case that has triggered this proposal, in its repeated form, there is no doubt that the legislation here has been complied with. That is not the issue either. As I said, both the Prime Minister and I are fully committed to looking at schemes that can give greater transparency. And I must say that although I am willing to give this selection a thought, I must honestly admit that it does not stand for me as the most obvious grip to get to what Marit Nybakk wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e617	There is a clear need to find out what is the room for discretion in the matter of borrowing or exporting weapons or other military material to allies, and whether there is any room for discretion, possibly what kind of room for discretion. Proposal No. 2, from the SV, which has been presented in today's debate, is not meant by the SV to be a proposal that leads to the release of NATO, but a proposal intended to identify the room of discretion that we believe it must be in terms of the issue of loaning arms. It can't be that Norway, because we're a member of NATO, is obliged to lend military material if one of the alliances is in a war that we don't believe has anchored in international law. Then we'll be dragged through the back way into a military conflict that we're basically opposed to. The government presents the matter as if there is no room for discretion. Here it's just automatic. The Labour Party, which agrees with the Government in the facts of the case, says in the debate that if the Stortinget had been consulted, either openly or in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, a different conclusion could have been reached. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs share this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e626	My point was not to say that SV wants NATO to be released – there is an interesting debate going on – but that in all the day-to-day decisions to be made in relation to the alliance, they can constantly push in wedges so that alliances get worse and worse. This is my concern with SV's participation in the government. With regard to the matter that we are now discussing for the third time, I have to say that I am upright on the position that was taken at the time. It could be done in a sense that you could, of course, take a different position. This would mean a change in policy, because it would then be part of the retail issue, which also implies the SV's proposal. Of course, you could do that. You just have to be aware of the consequences of the position you're taking. I am also not quite sure whether all the positions that have been expressed publicly have the interrelationship that I think they should have – but now leave it alone. It is at least so that the consequences would be obvious if we had adopted something other than what we based on in the case in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e635	Just to follow up exactly what I feel this case is about: what kind of room of discretion is there if an ally, in this case the United States, actively participates in a war or is going to an invasion that Norway does not believe has anchored in international law? Is it, then, that Norwegian NATO membership obliges us to lend out the military equipment they had to ask for, no matter what it is? In the opinion of the SV, there must be room for discretion, and the room for discretion must at least be that the provisions of international law and Norway’s perception of the provisions of international law are above the obligations of NATO membership. But here it's unclear, because different parties say different things. Marit Nybakk said in a line change before today that if the government had consulted the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee on this issue, which everyone knew would be perceived by the Norwegian people as an extreme provocation if it became known at the time it arrived, the matter could have another outcome. Does the Foreign Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e642	I'm not quite sure what Kristin Halvorsen is asking. But if she asked about it legally, i.e. in relation to obligations, it would have been possible to have another outcome, it would have been. We're not talking about legal obligations here. We're talking about what's the consequence of us borrowing from each other and going to do it more. Part of that policy has been that we do not have an end-user issue up. I think that's the whole premise that such arrangements should be viable and successful in the long term. That's why I say that if you wanted to take a different position from what the government took, you would change the content of this loan scheme, make it significantly less effective. It would put us more on the sideline than we would otherwise be, and would thus have implications for a small country that depends on the functioning of that kind of loan arrangement. That is what is the reality of this. It's not a question of legal obligations, but what will be the consequence of our own position on that issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e649	The Minister for Foreign Affairs is absolutely right when he says in his post that this is not an end-user issue; it is not a question of a final user statement. Nor is it a matter of ATT, an international convention to regulate arms trafficking. We're not going that far. But it's a proposal where you put up to use discretion, saying we haven't come to where we're going to be with the end-user statement and with international agreements in that area. But there's nothing new. Norway has been a footnote country, as we call it. We were under Secretary of State Frydenlund. Denmark also has a long tradition of speaking from within NATO. The knowledge of being in an alliance must be that one should also be able to send a signal that there are things one can be on, and there are things one cannot be on. That's why I mean to be able to tell you about their positions, especially when it's about international law, isn't going to be always getting into the collaboration. ‘Sex’ and ‘situation’ have been central here today. But if the government had used the sense that one had come to Stortinget in the last March, the SV might have skipped to post this proposal at all. Can the Foreign Minister say anything about how he has intended to deal with these matters in the future, since he does not support these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e656	I think I can quite clearly say that we would handle the matter according to the legislation that is. It was also the government's decision. We have therefore followed the guidelines set out by the Storting, and we have not sought a policy change on this point. It seems to me that many people had now gradually wanted a policy change. This is quite surprising, because the government was completely open in the written questions we gave to the representative Bjørklund, on what was the policy. It got no follow-up at that time. The interesting thing is that the follow-up is coming now, only one and a half years later. You could say a lot about what could have been done differently, but it's quite remarkable that after the precise questions were asked from Bjørklund's side, nothing happened until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e663	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e666	There are clear rules for the export of defence equipment and such exports are managed at all times by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in accordance with the rules in force. After a quarter of a century working at Raufoss, I know that this is the company satisfied with, and that is a good and close cooperation with the authorities. ==References== one third of the workforce produced defence equipment in the company Raufoss ASA for many years. Today, there's a little over 500 in Nammo that produces defense equipment, and 2,700 that's employed in the 30 other companies there. As a clarification: I'm not employed in Nammo and have no interest in wanting to take care of the workplaces and the Raufoss community. Over time, Norwegian defence production and development have also developed a number of high-tech and civil products that today benefit this society. Raufoss is today an industrial site which is the largest private workplace in five – 5 – municipalities in the inner Eastern region. It is important for the whole of the country to work at all times to develop further and take care of the jobs and competences at Raufoss. Enterprises and products represent a diversity of knowledge and activity, but are nevertheless vulnerable, because industrial workplaces are exposed to cyclical conditions. A word-drier, for example. in the automotive industry, unemployment can lead to very many people in a society that does not have all the world's alternative jobs. Defence equipment has been developed in close cooperation with Norwegian defence, and there has always been good contact between the company and the authorities in terms of production and export. When it comes to buying fighter aircraft for Norwegian defence in a few years, it is important that it is the will of the state to take care of the Norwegian defence industry and research. The choice of fighter aircraft will be crucial for whether Norwegian industry receives development contracts and deliveries. This will attract so much of the investment over many years that without repurchase and industrial participation contracts, our industry will be confused. This in turn is important for other industries, because our defence companies have extensive use of local subcontractors. The majority refer to the experience gained by the Swedish Defence Research Institute in testing 12.7 mm of multi-use communication. The product has been developed for use with armoured vehicles, and there is no basis for claiming that this type of ammunition violates the 1868 St. Petersburg Declaration. Red Cross in Finland, Norway and Sweden has been notified by the Norwegian authorities. It refers to the laws, regulations and guidelines on which requests for export of this defence material are based. It is important that there are clear rules for the export of defence equipment and that there is good contact between the producer and the Norwegian authorities. Exports are subject to strict control, and we are satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e686	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e689	The Labour Party is engaged in employment in the Norwegian defence industry — and that is important. The Workers' Party has been shown to be willing to build missile torpedo boats that the Defence Manager would not have, to provide Norwegian industry with jobs. Here, too, there are jobs – this time at Raufoss. As you know, Raufoss has evolved from an ammunition plant with a few thousand employees not many years ago into an industrial park with about 3,200 employees distributed over a total of thirty in all civil enterprises. It is a highly active innovation environment at Raufoss, and the ammunition factory employs around 500 people today. Norwegian industrial production, including defence equipment, shall remain within the scope of international law in force. That's what Nammo does. But is it a weakening of the workplaces of an industrial group that new independent tests are being carried out to be even safer on such questions? Many would argue that it was reassuring, unless it was found that the product was contrary to current international rules or could be used contrary to such rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e698	When Raufoss ASA was one major enterprise, there were more than 1000 jobs in Raufoss in the defence industry, and about 1 000 jobs in Raufoss. 2 000 in the private sector. So there have been several fewer jobs in the defence industry in Raufoss, but it has built up more in the private sector, which we are of course very happy with. But it is still the case that the development of defence equipment also leads to new jobs in the civil sector. It's going to be like this for the Workers' Party, and also for people living on Raufoss, that the statements from the U.D. on exports are predominantly important, and we'll always focus on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e705	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e708	Norwegian industrial workplaces disappear at record speed. Some are moved to other countries, and the others have bad conditions here at home. In addition to these poor odds of industrial workplaces in Norway, some of them are also going to fight against politicians who want the last defence companies closed. Raufoss Ammunition, or RA, as we used to call it – now called Nammo – was a significant name, and it was an incredibly large enterprise in previous days, with many employees. Now the management of the company is taken over by foreign interests, but the factory still exists as a corner stone company at Raufoss. One of Norway's last defence companies needs support and help from us elected people, not such Document No. 8 proposals presented today by SV. Does the representative of Bjørklund really believe that if they got through their Document No. 8-proposal, wouldn't this ammunition be produced any longer? Are you really that naive in S.B.? Unfortunately, the result is that the Raufoss community will lose jobs, and in worst cases, the whole Nammo will be moved out. What Uppland needs are more jobs, not suggestions to shut down the last ones we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e717	The debate today is about different issues. Firstly, it concerns the issue of several tests and the temporary ban on exports of a particular type of ammunition, also used in Iraq. Secondly, it deals with the issue of a Swedish model export control committee, which will give parliamentarians from different parties greater insight into licensing processes for such products. Results from Sweden show that these parliamentarians' increased access to information through this committee has given parliamentarians increased interest in these kinds of issues. And that might be useful. The third issue is to establish a demarcation against allied states – related to arms lending/weapon sales – that go to war in violation of international law. Three different issues, three different debates. 14 days ago, it became known that Norway lent laser lighting equipment to the United States that was used in the Iraq war. This was unknown to the Storting and is the full responsibility of the Government; it is now settled. At the same time, there is an export code that does not restrict arms exports to allied countries, with the exception of the known export ban to Turkey. This is known, but it is problematic, especially when our closest allies launch wars in violation of international law, as it is. happened in Iraq. For the Minister of Foreign Affairs: there are others than SV who are plugging into NATO cooperation today. This is a back porch. In the current situation relating to target lighting equipment for the United States, it should have been said that the government should have a judgement before and during the Iraq war, a judgement where one had chosen to say no, we cannot allow this loan, as the Workers' Party confirms today, and as SV has announced earlier. But they did not, and this matter related to the lending of target lighting equipment to Iraq, which is a very offensive capacity, remained unknown both to the Stortinget and to the Norwegian public. It was the principal thing about the issue of arms exports to allies, whatever the circumstances, that was the background for me to ask the foreign minister last spring. But then this was the loan that we've now talked about in the last fourteen days, unknown. You were familiar with the loan of noise jammers, a rather different problem. So this loan remained unknown until approx. 14 days ago. This is essential, and I guess it wasn't a coincidence. The answers pointed out general clarifications about the arms export code, which we all know about, but there are important questions – as if there should be limits to our allies as well. For the first time, I hear today that the foreign minister admits that it could have been a good idea, but that it would have had consequences. That's interesting. SV tried last year to raise a debate on this, initially in the media, but met very little response. It had no intention at the time of bringing the proposal into the Storting, it was not a majority for change then, and otherwise not today, as we have heard from the debate. The government has dealt with export-related legislation – the general export legislation, as the Stortinget has stated, but perhaps, in some opinion, one should use discretion and say no. I'm using this example to show a dilemma both about the relationship with our allies and about the alliance, which the majority in this room could well have discussed, but you're not interested in that. Today, therefore, we have export legislation that does not limit sales or lending to allies, nor does it require end-user declarations. Then what happened in the Iraq war happens: near allies launch a war of international law-enforcement. The Prime Minister made it clear that we did not support the war, in line with the majority in the United Kingdom. At the same time, Norway borrowed, we can say in secret, critically offensive material, as the Prime Minister of the Questionnaire stated on Wednesday two weeks ago that there were no possibilities to avoid, and especially when SV has not proposed changes to the export legislation. It is remarkable that the members of the Government give up the possibility to exercise judgement at SV. We've never asked for it, but we can take responsibility for helping the government out of this. That is why SV is proposing today, among other things. to impose a delimitation of loans or sales if the purpose is contrary to international law or if the war is not, in fact, supported by a majority here on the Grand Duchy. In this way, it will be possible for the Storting to exercise the discretion to which the Government is not willing. Thus, the size takes over the management of exports in given situations, or as an instruction. We note that there is no majority in favour of this proposal, nor has it been in the past. It has been claimed that the imposition of restrictions on allies is impossible – that it is to withdraw from NATO – despite the fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now opening up to it that it could have been a practice of discretion. But I don't believe that this is the same thing as resigning from NATO. I'm pretty sure we have a room for action that's larger than what the government expresses. This government basically believes that being critical to its closest allies can be seen as a hostile act, that the best is consensus. It is a good principle in very many situations to adopt such an attitude. But when the result of this is that we're being taken into account for and involved in wars that we don't support, and that don't have international legitimacy, it's a question of whether it could be more appropriate to mark itself as a somewhat more critical friend.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e740	I drew myself to prevent the misunderstanding that I have now said something else about the issues of discretion than what I have done before. I don't, even though Bjørklund meant to have heard it like that. The point was that what I said today was exactly the way I spoke in the big debate 14 days ago, and with my participation in the public debate. I would like to insist that if you were to start acting on this issue, you would actually go into the end-user question, and so you would change the policy at that point; that's what we haven't done up to now, to get into the end-user question – so there's a careful connection to this. Once I have the floor, I still have to point out the somewhat peculiar attitude SV now expresses. I understood that the problem was not that you lent something to Iraq, but what you had borrowed. So that means that it wasn't all right to borrow laser visions for what he described as a 'unrighteous war', but it's good for SV to borrow pity in connection with what he calls a 'unrighteous war'. It is a line of argument that is not quite obvious to me, if first the question of where they ended is a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e747	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See page 314]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e762	The National Audit Office’s survey shows that there is a potential for improvement in several areas of the call for proposals for the tax haven and the tax haven. The National Audit Office points out that a more effective call could generate a not insignificant income for the country, although it only leads to a relatively small reduction in accumulated balances. The National Audit Office records that the Ministry, the Directorate of Taxation and the Directorate of Customs and Fees have taken or are planning measures to improve several of the weaknesses identified by the survey. It is a unanimous committee which has noted that the study does not provide a basis for statistical generalisation of the call for proposals by tax authorities and customs administrations, but that the scope of the issues examined still gives a good indication of how the call has been made. The Committee has noted that the management by the Directorates of the tax administration of the collection activities of tax administrations and customs administrations is carried out through the principles of target and performance management. The National Audit Board has pointed out that it is appropriate to consider the introduction of more comparable targets and performance indicators for the management of the call for proposals of the two departments. The Committee considers it appropriate to provide for further evaluation by the Ministry. It would have been interesting if the Minister of Finance could confirm that the Department will follow up this remark from a unanimous committee. However, the Committee has also noted that in 2002 the operation of the tax havens was strongly influenced by the introduction of a new VAT management system, VAT, per. 1 July 2001, which was reflected in, among others: longer procedural periods. However, the Committee welcomes the fact that the Ministry stresses that, if the decision has been appealed or brought before the courts, the agencies should be more reluctant to enforce payments and to seek bankruptcy. It is also a very important point for the many companies concerned. The Committee is also pleased that the remaining situation in the tax haven and the tax haven has improved during 2003 and that the remaining situation is now under control. With regard to all the other aspects of this wording, the Committee would point out that the Court of Auditors' observations are considered to be complete and satisfactory by the Ministry, and that the Committee is satisfied with the various measures undertaken or advised by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e781	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 315]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e796	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 315]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e811	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 315]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e826	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after contributions from the main speakers from each group and after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e835	This summer the Norwegian people were told via television that Norwegian parents are unable to take care of their children while staying in Spain. This was shocking to see. There is reason to ask questions about the carelessness of parents. What for children is going to be a nice time with vacation in the South, unfortunately, becomes too many a nightmare. I assume that on the basis of what we saw, the proposers promoted this Document No. The 8th proposal. The Ministry took the matter seriously and sent a delegation of representatives from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research and the County of Oslo and Akershus to Spain to investigate the situation of Norwegian children who were suffering from care failure while living in the country. From this trip we received a report and suggestions on what can be done. I would like to point out that children's woe is not just about children in Spain, but about whatever country they are in. So we have to have a system that applies to everyone. Letters from the Ministry state that international law precludes the exercise by Norwegian authorities of coercion against their own citizens without the consent of the State concerned. The Commission, which examined the situation in Spain, has provided feedback on the organisation and functioning of child protection in Spain, similar to that in Norway. The Workers’ Party therefore considers that an international Children’s Protection Department should not be set up with the task of operating abroad in order to implement coercive decisions under Norwegian law. However, the majority believe that contact and cooperation with other countries’ child protection services needs to be improved. The most important thing must be to help children who are exposed to care failure as quickly as possible. There is a lack of knowledge about where to send a message of concern and who to contact. This can simply be solved by building good and close cooperation with the local child protection authorities in the Norwegian schools abroad. A unanimous committee therefore considers that it is necessary to require those employed in Norwegian schools to have competence in the language of the country of residence. In addition, it is important to report failure of care to Norwegian authorities. It is important that Norwegian embassies and consulates have the necessary skills to guide and help in such situations. The Committee considers that, in addition, the SBF, the State Children’s Protection and Family Protection should be strengthened. The SBF should then be able to assist and guide Norwegian consulates, embassies, schools and others in professional matters and in how they should proceed. It is also appropriate to facilitate contact with Norwegian representation or local child protection in emergency situations and to provide advice and guidance from Norway. This may, for example: occur through the 24-hour child-restraint guards. In this case, adequate guidance skills must be provided. Here it is important to stress that a large bureaucracy should not be created, but that children should be taken care of. In principle, notification of children’s need for assistance shall be addressed to the local child protection authorities, who will then contact the local authorities of the municipalities, where appropriate via the embassy. Finally, it is not difficult to support the intention to help these children. Children are and shall be the responsibility of their parents. If these fail, we must have a good public offer for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e854	The proposal of the Socialist Left to amend the Child Protection Act and, where appropriate, other laws to enforce the laws for children who are Norwegian citizens and who are living abroad came after the NRK Focus had a programme on children who experienced various forms of care failure in Spain. It has been later revealed that child protection in Spain is quite similar to our own. In addition, we have information today that around 150 Norwegian children who, according to the NRC, needed help because of care failure also included children who, because of learning difficulties or for physical reasons, need different types of special education. On the right is concerned that Norwegian children will receive a good growth abroad as well. However, with regard to the possibility of child protection to assist children living outside, this is limited as Norwegian child protection legislation only applies as long as the children are living in Norway. The implementation of non-Norwegian coercive decisions would be contrary to general principles of international law, but despite the fact that it is possible to make improvements within the agencies we have today. Firstly, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs is working together with the County of Oslo and Akershus to assess measures to assist children of Nordics living abroad. Such a measure may be to develop a guide on where children and adults can contact if problems arise. In addition to schools, the supervisor can be distributed among others. to Norwegian foreign stations, to seamen’s churches and to tour operators selling long-stay accommodation, as well as the websites of those operators. This will enable you to reach those children who are not associated with Norwegian foreign schools. Secondly, contact and cooperation with other countries’ child protection services can be improved, but it is important to be aware that child protection in, for example: Spain is organised and operates as in Norway. Thirdly, the protection of children and the protection of families can be strengthened professionally in these matters, so that they can assist and guide Norwegian consulates, schools and others in professional matters and in how they should proceed. To the right, it is important to ensure that schemes are in place that are in the best interests of children who are at risk of care failure and who are practical and feasible. Otherwise, I will join the rapporteur's statement. Right goes in for this Document No. The 8th proposal shall be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e873	First of all, I would like to take a little distance from what the rapporteur has opened his speech to say, namely, that people who travel with their children to Spain are not able to take care of them because they drink so much. I guess that's not exactly the case. The vast majority of children, including in Spain, have it pretty good, I think, so we don't end up with it. We don't want to stigmatize all those who travel to Spain. So it's an important case SV promotes a Document No. Eight proposals on today and on which we are going to deal. There is certainly nothing that upsets a family politician more than when you can read, and especially about holidays and holidays, that Norwegian children experience care failure anywhere in the world. We want to help, and we stand a little powerless and watch because we don't have the necessary tools to help. But there are possibilities, and there are people in different parts of the world who want to help, and who make themselves available to children who experience going for lye and cold water. A supervisor, as the government suggests, is well and good, and can probably do good among teachers and others working with the Norwegian children. But maybe the Progress Party doesn't think it'll get to the kids who need it the most. We agree with the Government that it does not intend to build a separate foreign department in the State Children’s Protection and Family Protection here in Norway to deal with such issues. It will be both cost-intensive and hardly as effective as SV thinks in his proposal. But for the most part, I'm not talking about money when children are suffering, but we still have to look at what's most effective and reaches the children in question, in the fastest possible way. Nor do I believe that changing Norwegian law has the intended effect on the children concerned, because in any case you have to cooperate with the authorities of the countries where the children are located. Then we believe more in our own solution – yes, because there are heart rooms in Norwegian colonies abroad, and there are also non-governmental organisations working to give Norwegian children an offer, a place to be taken and a place to have an adult to talk to, if needed. There are also Norwegian couples abroad who would expect to be shelters for those children who need them. Of course, they have to qualify to be emergency shelters on the same lines as the Norwegians, but we're going to assume that there are both ventricles and shelters. It is important that we use the resources that exist, where care failure is a problem: local Norwegian skills that know both the children, the parents, the environment and perhaps not least the culture that is in the country where you are located. Moving this department to Norway can quickly become bureaucratic and ineffective. It may be difficult to fully understand and understand how children abroad feel, and what traumatic experiences they would experience by being moved to an institution in a country where they may not even speak the language. Getting involved in such a situation will probably be very difficult if you sit in an office in Oslo. And not all decisions necessarily have to be right either, when you're sitting in an office in Oslo. It's harder to get an overview of what's happening hundreds of miles away. Therefore, we ask the Government to assess the possibilities for cooperation with local Norwegian-driven voluntary organisations and to assist them with funds for the operation of children’s centres, or children’s bases, as it would probably be called in Norway. Then you know that both the children and the environments around the children have a place to go, ask for help if they need it, or just feel belonging, if that's what's needed. But more importantly, the government may contribute to the skills they possess and provide advice and guidance to those who want to run such child bases. This is going new ways, seeing new solutions, and thus perhaps helping those children who really need help get it before it gets too late. I am promoting our proposal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e889	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, has promoted the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e892	The Children’s Protection Act applies to children living in Norway. Thus, the protection of children does not provide for measures to be taken against children living abroad. This means that child protection does not allow intervention in relation to vulnerable children and young people living abroad. There have been worrying reports in the past year that Norwegian children living abroad live in conditions that, if they had lived in Norway, would have led to child protection intervention. There have been serious cases where small children have been thirsty and hungry in unsupervised hotel rooms. Today, children who live abroad are at random given the help they need when they are under care. SV believes it is essential that legal certainty for Norwegian children abroad be strengthened, so that these children receive the help they need, and we promote the sale of the establishment of an international child protection department. We also promote proposals to amend the law on child protection services and other relevant laws so that they apply to all children who are Norwegian citizens and who live abroad. SV completely disagrees with the fact that it is not possible to establish an international unit for the protection of children, as the majority of the Committee says. The majority also say that child protection in Spain is organised and works almost as in Norway. This is a claim in which many Norwegian environments in Spain disagree. Many Norwegian children live in conditions abroad that child protection had intervened in Norway. This proposal is not just about Spain, it is about different countries with different legislation where children are on vacation or on long-term leave, and where child protection is far from organised and functioning as in Norway. The Ministry, in its letter, points out that international law prevents the Norwegian authorities from imposing coercion on their own citizens without the consent of the State concerned. Such consent may be given on a case-by-case basis, or on a general basis in the form of bilateral or multilateral treaties. This underlines that it is fully possible to apply Norwegian legal rules to Norwegians living abroad if the country of residence agrees. I don't think there are many states that would protest against using Norwegian legislation against children abroad where the child is subjected to care failure. We have just had cases that show that countries are cooperating in this way. We have just been sent home three children to Norway. The EU aims to ratify the Hague Convention, which regulates when a country's authority and courts have jurisdiction to rule over a child. The Vergemålsommission proposes that Norway ratify the Convention. If Norway ratifys, the area of competence of child protection will be governed by the Convention. The majority of the Committee makes it clear that the NOU is now in consultation and that it would be natural to await the outcome of this consultation and then come back to this matter. It is pleased that the Committee has clarified. We in SV are aware that there may be intersections between different laws and conventions that make a rapid response difficult when children and young people are in a crisis situation beyond Norway’s borders. But we believe that there is no contradiction between this and the establishment of an international unit of child protection. The Department shall be a resource centre for the Norwegian consulates and schools, assist with competence and provide a basis for action for children living abroad. The Ministry’s reply to the Committee shows that only one child has been sent to Norway by the Spanish Children’s Protection Authority. Based on the pictures we've seen, and the concerns we've received in the last year, it's incredibly small. That's a big concern for SV. That also worries the case rapporteur, I heard that. I think it is absolutely necessary to change the law so that we can take care of these children who are outside the borders of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e907	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestions to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e910	I would first like to stress that it is the Christian People's Party's goal that all Norwegian children who are subjected to care failure should be taken care of, regardless of their country of residence or residence. Care failure can have serious consequences for children, both in the short and long term. In the event of care failure, it is important that children are taken care of and followed up by someone who understands the child, someone who can intervene on short notice and provide child safety. We must not create the impression that this applies to most of the children who live abroad, but to those who are, it is all the more serious. It is not always easy to detect children who are exposed to care failure. Even though some children become very visible because they are exaggerating, many react to becoming introverted and full of guilt. Many of them are also small ‘adults’ who have a major responsibility for the well-being, economy and practicality of their parents. Since people move more and more and it has become common for families with young children to stay abroad for a shorter or longer period, it is important that Norwegian child protection authorities cooperate with their colleagues in other countries. If a family has been in contact with the Norwegian Child Protection Service before leaving, the municipality may send a statement of concern to the Child Protection Service in the host country requesting to follow up the family. Studies show that the lack of knowledge of where concerns messages are sent and to whom they are addressed is an important reason why children do not receive the help they need when, for various reasons, mother or father are unable to provide them. This can be solved, for example: by building good and close cooperation with the local child protection authorities in the Norwegian schools abroad. It is therefore important that those employed in Norwegian schools have competence in the language of their country of residence. The Ministry of Education and Research v/fylkansen in Oslo and Akershus already has a pedagogical psychological service for schools abroad to assist with expert assessments of the needs of pupils for special education and to assist schools in facilitating training for students with special needs. The Norwegian authorities will be able to draw alternates from this existing aid facility abroad in helping children with more social difficulties. The Christian People's Party believes it is essential that Norwegian embassies and consulates have sufficient knowledge and competence to guide and help in such situations. The Norwegian consulates and embassies shall be able to assist both schools, seamen’s churches and, where appropriate, others in meeting the child protection authorities of other countries. For this to work, there must be regular contacts between the different institutions. Consulates and embassies should therefore initiate regular contact meetings between the parties. The purpose will be to facilitate the development of procedures for the handling of child protection matters. In addition, the protection of the State's children and the protection of the family should be strengthened with high professional competence in these matters. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs has, in a circular, informed all the municipalities of the country about the possibilities of child-rescue services to assist Norwegian children abroad and about the follow-up of children who have problems after returning to Norway. Voluntary efforts are important, both at home and abroad. There are many volunteers abroad who are making a lot of effort. The Church’s Bymition Vestfold has taken the initiative of a pre-project, ‘Base Blanca’, to assist children in Spain. This is a positive initiative and can be an important complement to the work to help children in Spain in the future. The size of the population has also granted money for the establishment of a slide show in Spain in connection with the Maritime Church, with the aim of strengthening the follow-up of vulnerable children and young people. Seamen's churches are a social hub for the Nordics abroad and an important social arena in addition to being a church. The Christian People's Party is in favour of the creation of a slide show to focus on children and children's families. The possibility of Norwegian child protection to assist children living outside is limited as Norwegian child protection legislation only applies as long as the child is living in Norway. The implementation of coercive decisions outside Norwegian soil would be contrary to general principles of international law, unless the Member States of residence agreed. The Christian People's Party believes that it will not be possible to establish an international child protection department with the task of operating abroad to implement coercive decisions in relation to Norwegian legislation. On the other hand, we believe that contact and cooperation with other countries’ child protection services need to be improved. Notification of children’s need for assistance must be addressed to the local child protection authorities, who will then contact the local authorities of the municipalities, possibly via the embassy. The question of where the authorities and courts of a country have the right to rule over a child is governed by the The Hague Convention of 1996. This has not yet entered into force, but the EU is working to ratify the Convention. The Vergemålsommission proposes that Norway ratify the Convention. The idea of warehousing is now out at the hearing, and the Christian People's Party believes it would be natural to await that outcome and then come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e938	The case handler has provided a thorough and good review of the setting. This is a setting that is supported by the Central Party. I think the most important thing in this case is to point out and underline the responsibility we have to take care of children who behave outside the country, taking into account their need for help, advice and guidance. I have noticed that the Government has taken a good and independent initiative on the basis of the programme sent in the NRK Focus in February 2004. That there was then a delegation sent to Spain consisting of representatives from two departments and from the County of Oslo and Akershus, I thought I was a positive initiative, which also showed that when things happen that come out of public opinion, we react. I believe that it is the best way to go in order to check the functioning of Spanish child protection – in this example – and discuss cooperation between Spanish and Norwegian authorities. I think it's important. A public focus on how to strengthen the situation of children with problems can help us find good solutions. I believe that everyone in this room, regardless of party, is concerned that children and their children will take their problems seriously. They'll get the help they need when they need help. The centre party does not support SV's proposal to establish an international child protection department. We believe that we should strengthen existing child protection. We support the setting, and I would like to remind you that the Minister for Children is responsible for all children, whether they live in Norway, Spain or other countries, as long as they have Norwegian citizenship. I expect the Council of State will seek to stay informed and up-to-date on how children who behave outside Norway will always be.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e956	This is an important matter, and everyone knows the background of the matter. I first want to refer to the report that the department made after a delegation went to Spain. This report contains a number of proposals for action that we have taken and measures that we are going to take. What was interesting when we were in Spain was to see that Spanish child protection works much the same way as Norwegian. What we also found out was that there were few reports of concern that had been notified to the Spanish child protection system, and where it had happened, child protection had reacted as expected, and in line with the principles of Norwegian child protection. This was reassuring. We see it this way, after considering and investigating the case and Document No. The 8th proposal, that it is not possible for Norway to set up an international department in Spain based on intervention, for example. with coercive measures against children. So it's not going to work. But equally fully, these measures in our report will form the basis for the work we will continue to work with Spain on. And we're going to follow up if the cooperation between the Spanish child protection authorities and various Norwegian agencies does not lead to the follow-up of children who need help and who are notified to Spanish child protection. I also thought I could say a little about the work that is about to be completed with regard to the supervisor. The Ministry of Children's Affairs and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research now have a supervisor for families with children living abroad. The supervisor is expected to be completed around the turn of the year and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research, will be distributed as widely as possible. It will include, among others: have up-to-date legal references, provide information on who should be contacted in the event of problems and on the possibilities of receiving assistance from Norwegian foreign stations, and provide an overview of useful addresses and websites. Seafarers' churches will be mentioned, and there will be separate chapters on health, insurance and social security. The protection of children in Spain and cooperation with Norwegian child protection authorities will be given particular attention due to the large colonies of Northmen living there. In doing so, the supervisor will stress the importance of learning Spanish and, in other words, of getting involved in the situation on the ground. As one of the proposals in the report stated, we have also decided to grant grants to Spain to create a new slide show at one of the seafarer’s churches in Spain on the sun’s coast, which will focus mainly on children and children’s families. This position will be a collaboration between the Norwegian Church, the Congregation Sister’s Home, which will also provide grants for this, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and probably also the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church. The special position of the marine church among the Nordics abroad means that the deacon will come into contact with a large number of children and children's families. It will be foreseen that the recruiter will be in charge of Spanish in order to be able to cooperate with the Spanish authorities and to have knowledge of current Norwegian legislation relating to children, including in particular: the Children’s Protection Act. In addition, when it will be suggested that the deacon be able to act as a competent person for the rest of the Norwegian environment, the Nordics in Spain will be given a competence to which many have contributed. With these measures and more that are included in the report, we believe that we will be able to deal with this in a good way in the future. The ministry is going to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e976	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e979	Whether we live in Norway, or Northmen live in other countries, this matter and the debate show that there is some care failure in relation to children. It may be even worse for a child to experience that the nearest one is failing, while living in a foreign country. There needs to be better routines for rapid assistance both abroad and in Norway. The entire Committee believes that the protection of children and the protection of families must be strengthened with a high level of professional competence and that the day-to-day child-restraint guards must be given a good guide. The majority will not go in to build up any bureaucracy, but it is very important that we have an interaction between the different agencies abroad and Norway, that this interaction works, and that the children are taken care of. The Council of State was a little concerned with my question, but I still ask: will the Council of State ensure that good training and strengthening of professional competence are carried out, so that help comes quickly, and that help works?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e990	Actually, I can answer yes and sit down again. Of course, we'll follow up. I also want to refer – very briefly – to the whole conversion that is taking place in Norwegian child protection, where empowerment is incredibly important. We have streamlined the administrations in the regions for the creation of 26 new teams, which in their areas will be directly helpful in each municipality, and which will often be the body that could possibly come into contact with the Spanish child protection system. Yes, we're going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e999	It was very gratifying to hear about the slide show that is about to be directed at children and young people in Spain – we are delighted to hear it – at the same time I was very little thought about, because it almost sounds to the Council of State as if the biggest problems were in Spain. But as May Hansen of SV was in place, it is actually also elsewhere around the world where there are large groups of Norwegian children. Nevertheless, I would like to ask, because the Council of State was not concerned: has the Council of State intended to consider the proposal of the Progress Party on cooperation with non-governmental organisations in the parts of the world where there are many Norwegian children?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1004	Norwegian children are found in many countries, and it is important to me that we build a system that enables the entire Norwegian child protection system to have competence in cooperation. It is also important that Norwegian consulates in different countries can be helpful in such situations. Now it was Spain that was especially focused on this time, because it might be in the country we find most Norwegian children. When it comes to cooperating with other non-governmental organisations run by the Nordics abroad, I take it with me as a proposal. We haven't assessed it. But one way to do it is how we do it now via the Seaman's Church. There is also cooperation with non-governmental organisations. But I'm taking this further, and I'm happy to accept input. I know too little about the volunteer organizations that exist in Spain.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1011	I do not know if I misunderstood the Council of State, but I believe she said that SV today is proposing to establish an international department of child protection in Spain. So we have not proposed that. We propose the establishment of an international department in Norway responsible for children abroad. There has also been a strong focus on Spain. We haven't focused on Spain. We've mentioned Spain because it's been up this year. But this is a proposal that SV has had before, and so it applies to all children. Is the Council not concerned that there is only one child who has been sent home from Spain? And is not the Council of State concerned that child protection in Spain does not work as well as child protection in Norway, once we have seen the pictures we have seen this summer – once we have received those messages? As far as the Seaman's Church is concerned, I'm glad we get a person in there... I'm sorry, but my time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1022	The representative has, as she knows, the opportunity to draw himself again.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1025	It is possible that I may have expressed myself incorrectly in relation to Spain. I am aware that SV means an international department of child protection here in Norway. Equally fully, SV argues in relation to its proposal as if this department, or Norwegian Child Protection, could intervene with any coercive measures abroad. So we can't do that the way we've done it. It's important that we now give some funds to the deacon at the Seaman's Church, so that they can also catch up with children who don't necessarily go to school, where we have a system that requires that the schools follow up, we have social teachers, etc. I think what we're doing now is important in terms of catching up more than the children that you see in school everyday in Spain. There are a number of children who are smaller, who also take their parents to Spain.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1032	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1037	I'm going to correct an obvious misunderstanding, as it's called. Karin S. Woldseth thought to have heard that I am cutting all over one comb. I'd like to make it clear that I didn't intend to do that. I believe that Norwegian children enjoy sun and summer and travel on a pleasant holiday with their parents, or grandparents, for that matter – it is a great experience, which can be recommended. But what I was talking about was that it actually -- as I said -- too many people become nightmares when care fails. When I took the word "many" in my mouth, it's because one kid is one too much if that kid fails, and that's what's the concern. Then I would like to say that the department should be commended for taking this matter quite seriously. So they're sending people down to Spain to investigate the situation. The report we get in here in Stortinget is the one we have to trust. I cannot travel for such a delegation and check it out. When we are told by the Council of State that the conditions in Spanish child protection are almost as they are in Norwegian, we actually have to trust it. And then we have to make sure that the Nordics who work with children abroad – whether they are on the mission or in tourist areas – have to know a little bit of the language, because there are a lot of shades in the language. We have to demand that the skills become so good that the kids benefit from it. I understand that the Council of State will now follow up. As others have pointed out, it is of course a concern that Norwegian kids have difficulty, whether they are here or abroad. I have the confidence in the Council of State that she will of course follow this matter very closely, not least as regards the build-up of skills among those who work with children, wherever they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1046	I mentioned in my post, and here I would challenge the Council of State, this letter from the Ministry, which refers to the fact that ‘the law of the people prevents the Norwegian authorities from imposing coercion on their own citizens without the consent of the State in question. Such consent may be given on a case-by-case basis’, or by agreement. We have just had a case in Norway where three children were brought home because mother was killed abroad. There, the Norwegian authorities went out and practiced coercion in cooperation with that country. What we are proposing here is that we have a department in Norway that has the power to exercise the Children's Protection Act abroad in cooperation with the countries concerned. Now I'm not the most concerned about Spain, I'm actually the most concerned about some other countries. We have had a case in the summer where a baby is about thirsty in the heel of a hotel abroad. This is not only true for some well-organized places around where there are many Northers, this applies to all countries. It worries me, and it worries SV, and that's why we have proposed this again. We've done it before. In the case of the meeting with the schools, the Ministry revealed that not everyone was aware of the responsibility of notifying the suspicion of a care failure to the protection of children. Nor has there been anything special about messages from the Spanish schools. It's very good that the department now deals with briefings and raises its competence. In fact, I am also quite happy that a deacon is hired, even though SV is opposed to it, at the Norwegian Seafarer's Church. I was on weekends in contact with the Norwegian Seafarer's Church and those who work there. They do not share the same view of Spanish child protection as that of the Ministry. Then it's good that we get someone who goes in there and evaluates this. It's better than nothing. But I actually believe that the department itself has said that it is possible to set up this department. Well, when the Hague Convention gets on the track, that's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1063	We've actually been very careful about this, and it's true that international law prevents us from acting unilaterally. It's possible that we're talking a little bit past each other, because I really think the intention we have is the same. We want to work with Spain just to be able to agree on possible intervention in cases where a child is suffering. The child may be sent back to Norway, as has been done in some cases. So the Spanish child protection system has worked well in the cases we've been notified to children's protection. Child protection, whether in Spain or Norway, will in any case depend on incoming concerns. I think one of the important things we're doing here now is to make arrangements for new routines and new guidelines. We are also going through this guide to make the entire school environment and the entire Norwegian environment in Spain aware of how to deal with it if you see a child suffering in a foreign country and you see that parents are unable to take care of their children. Anyway, I want to say here, as we say in Norway: Every adult should have eyes and ears open when they meet children who seem to be having trouble. We know that many today, both neighbors and others, are seeking help and contact with child protection when they see children suffering. It must also apply in Spain.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1074	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 315]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1089	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 316]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1097	Now we're going to vote in case no. 1 to 7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1104	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Marit Nybakk on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, from Bjørn Jacobsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1114	Although there are slightly different signals from the government parties here regarding enthusiasm for the content of proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on behalf of the three parties, I will ask for this proposal to be submitted to the Government without substance, assuming that this is investigated by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1119	The proposal of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party has then been converted into a transmission proposal and the text reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine whether a politically complex advisory body should be set up to control arms exports, as is the case in Sweden. [[Export Control Board]] The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make it clear to the Norwegian Allies in NATO that Norway will not feel obliged to lend or sell military equipment to allies involved in a war that the majority of the population does not support and/or that the majority of the population does not believe to be sufficiently anchored in the International Law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1155	During the debate, Mr Jacobsen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to the implementation of new independent tests of the impact of Mk 211 multipurpose ammunition on humans.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess requirements and measures that may prevent the illegal use of Mk 211 multipurpose ammunition by countries importing such ammunition from Norway.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to introduce a temporary stop in the export of Mk 211 multipurpose ammunition until new tests have been carried out, measures to prevent illegal use have been taken and the international legal aspects of the type of ammunition have been further illuminated.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1189	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1196	Then the correct votes shall be 81 votes in favour and 19 votes in favour. - That's how the suspension is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1245	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 2 and 3, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party It is first voted on the proposals of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to amend the law on child protection services and other relevant laws so that they apply to all children who are Norwegian citizens and who are living abroad.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of an International Department of Child Protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-09.ana.ud2339e1276	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider cooperating with the various voluntary organisations located abroad that can contribute to the safety of Norwegian children who experience care failure, both with professional competence and with resources for the operation of various child safety measures.’
