ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06-lower.ana.ud1619e34	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Stings on 11 and 13 May – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06-lower.ana.ud1619e39	I'd like to suggest Sigvald Uppøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06-lower.ana.ud1619e46	Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen is proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of the Odelsting meeting on 11 and 13 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06-lower.ana.ud1619e65	Ot. pp. No 52 for 2003-2004 proposes the implementation of Regulation No 52 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2560/2001 on cross-border payments in euro, the so-called Euro Regulation. The main purpose of the Regulation is to regulate charges for cross-border payments in the euro currency. It also provides for information obligations relating to fees for domestic and cross-border payments and provisions on reporting obligations. The purpose of the Regulation is to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to strengthen confidence in the euro currency. The Regulation provides that charges for cross-border euro transactions may not exceed those for payments in euro within a Member State. The regulation is proposed in the Financial Agreements Act. It allows this legislation to also apply to the national currency of a country, if a Member State so wishes. The government does not propose this, justified on the grounds of avoiding cross-subsidisation between intra-country and cross-border transactions in Norwegian kroner. It is a good principle that the fee should cover actual costs, and it is also a moment when different banks may have different costs associated with cross-border transactions in Norwegian kroner. The European banking industry is now establishing a system of cross-border transactions in euro that will reduce the cost of such transactions. However, this system will not be able to contribute to cross-border transactions in Norwegian krona, and it is also not appropriate to make the Regulation applicable to Norwegian krona for that reason. However, the Regulation allows Norwegian banks to participate in the system for the transmission of the euro. This could reduce the costs of such transfers over time. An overall financial committee is in line with the proposal for the implementation of the euro regulation by the Government. In the proposal, the government also promotes proposals to amend the savings bank law and the commercial banking law relating to the right of bank managers to hold office in the business community. The proposal implies that the current prohibition on corporate governance applies only to the extent that the business has a customer relationship or other commercial relationship with the bank. The proposal follows up part of the referral of the Banking Law Commission's investigation No. 4th@item: inlistbox The assessment is that the proposal ensures the necessary degree of stability and that the proposal further enables several qualified persons to be made available to the board of directors. In particular, this could lead to increased recruitment of female board members, since more women currently have senior positions in banks but have been prevented from taking such positions in business. In addition to the above proposals, it is also proposed to abolish the requirement that members of the board of savings banks should reside in the municipality. The amendment is deemed necessary as a result of Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement. Moreover, recent developments in banking do not make it natural — in the form of law — to require local representation in the organs of banks. These proposals are also supported by an overall financial committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06-lower.ana.ud1619e86	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 436]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06-lower.ana.ud1619e102	Since the case's rapporteur is a member of the Lagtinget, Mr Heidi Grande Røys will have the floor on behalf of the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06-lower.ana.ud1619e105	Odelstinget today handles a document proposal from the Progress Party, Document No. 8:49, granting exemptions for property taxes on telecommunications installations. The majority of the committee proposes to reject the proposal, and I will further argue for that view, and I assume that the Progress Party, which is the minority, will argue for it. The historical rationale for the exemption of telecommunications installations from property taxes in the past was that they were owned by the state and considered as non-profit-making purposes. Today, however, these are owned by various telecommunications companies that operate on a purely commercial basis and therefore cannot expect such a premonition. This has been confirmed by the Supreme Court in its judgment of 23 January 2002 in a case between the City of Nesset and Telenor Telecom Solutions AS. Removing the right to impose a property tax on precisely these installations would be to favour a particular industry. Of course, you can do that, but then you have to have a good foundation for nutrition policy. So the majority can't see that the Progress Party has reasonable arguments for the proposal. The proposers argue that ownership taxes should not be levied on such installations, because property taxes are normally some form of compensation received by municipalities for municipal expenditure. The point, as the Minister of Finance also writes in his letter to the Committee, is that property tax does not only have this foundation. The purpose of providing the municipality with income in general is today as appropriate a foundation as the first. The proposers further argue that property taxes on such installations can slow down the construction of broadband in the districts. To that end, the costs of paying municipal property taxes are relatively marginal. In addition, municipalities may think that this is an important consideration precisely in their municipality, free of charge to print such taxes on work and use. But then it's up to the municipalities to decide, and not the Stortinget to say. Several of the organisations that have written letters to the Committee on this matter have referred to a committee comment from the Business Committee in connection with the so-called Broadband Communication. However, I would like to say that there is a difference between what the Committee says in that comment, namely that they ‘assess an assessment of’ different types of obstacles, and mentions this tax on ownership as one of the obstacles, and on the other hand, to support a proposal without the assessment that the Economic and Social Committee has said he ‘saves’. Using that note on income for the proposals of the Progress Party will not be included. Then one has in a way also feared the least interest of commercial actors in the districts. There is also the minimum income from the property tax. ICT-Norway wrote in its letter to the Committee: «At the same time, it is clear that it is mainly the major urban municipalities that will receive income of importance. In the pig-grown areas, revenue will be more modest.» It is clear that if some municipalities have modest incomes, some companies also have modest expenditures. So using this as a district policy argument is not what we're into. Property taxes are an important part of local democracy. It is up to municipal and county authorities to decide whether they want such revenues, and we should not interfere with it, with the exception of either one thing or the other. For one thing is at least certain: if we had opened up for this, there are many good purposes waiting to escape taxes on property. Thus, over time, the income base of the local government sector will crumble. Probably the Progress Party won't be so sorry for that, for taxes are now an expression in the Progress Party's eyes. But at least there's not a direction that we want to support. With this, I would recommend to the Committee its recommendation on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06-lower.ana.ud1619e129	The progress party disagrees with the plurality and also disagrees with most of the case spokesperson just now presented. We thought it would be important to get a plural to remove the right to charge property taxes on telecommunications facilities. We are of the opinion that it is important to make the best possible use of mobile facilities, broadband and other related infrastructure. It is obvious that this is an additional cost, and it will also be a competitive disadvantage, which can lead to a lack of development. It is now said that the maximum cost of ownership taxes on telecommunications installations will be in densely constructed areas. That's probably right. But the problem is not the lack of development in densely populated areas. I don't think the property tax here is going to prevent any expansion. But on the other hand, in pig-grown strokes out in District Norway, where a person has a marginal salary initially, this could be what would result in a failure to expand. Sorry, there will be no progress party on. It is also said by the case-speaker that the municipalities can choose not to charge property taxes on works and use, if they believe so. Of course they can. But here we are in the situation that the municipality finds out that it may be preferable for the municipality to impose property taxes on works and use, while this may be negative for Norway as a whole. Therefore, we believe that the right to charge property taxes on telecommunications facilities must be removed, by a change in the law in Stortinget. We also refer to the broadband message, which the case spokesperson also mentioned, St.meld. No 49 for 2002-2003. There one said clearly that obstacles to the development of broadband had to be removed. Within the industry, one perception has been that this was a clear signal that economic barriers, such as ownership taxes, were also involved in telecommunications. I thought it was foolish that the majority did not agree with this excellent proposal from the Progress Party. Now it's not too late to turn yet, but I guess there's not so much hope of it. But in any case, I will address the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06-lower.ana.ud1619e142	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he mentioned. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06-lower.ana.ud1619e152	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06-lower.ana.ud1619e216	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06-lower.ana.ud1619e226	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06-lower.ana.ud1619e234	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposal: «Agreements to the Act amending Law 6 June 1975 No 29 on the tax on property tax for municipal law 6 June 1975 No. 29 on taxes on ownership of municipalities are amended as follows: the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 4 is replaced by the following: calculating factories, sawmills, quarries, fishworks, salthouses, bilges, built-in waterfalls and cascades, dams, landfills and similar places of work and operation, but not installations used for such activities as are covered by Law No 4 July 2003; 83 on electronic communications.IIThe law shall enter into force immediately and with effect from 1 July 2004.’» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
