ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e30	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e35	I suggest Anne Berit Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e40	Anne Berit Andersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Anne Berit Andersen is considered unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e47	On behalf of John I. Alvheim and myself, I would like to make suggestions on how to facilitate the right of decision-makers to decide whether patients can be offered medically assisted rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e52	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e75	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Dagfinn Højbrätten State Council Ingerd Schou State Council Kristin Krohn Devold The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e94	My question goes to the Minister of Health. The Health Supervision Report for 2003 strongly criticises the unsatisfactory reorganisation of psychiatry. It is noted that psychiatric hospitals and hospital wards have been closed down, while the district psychiatric centres providing alternative treatment services are not sufficiently developed and many centres are unused even if they are finished, due to a lack of finances. According to the Health Inspectorate, treatment provision is not coordinated and statutory individual plans have not been taken into account to any particular extent. As far as 2004, there are proposals in the regions for very extensive cuts in treatment provision. What does the Minister of Health intend to do with this situation, in view of the ongoing psychiatry plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e105	There is an extensive focus on mental health, and this results in more treatment, and more treatment is more rapid. Nevertheless, there are obvious errors and deficiencies. The report by the State Health Authority is serious in this way because it not only points to inadequate services, but also points to clear offences in the service. It's a report that I take with the greatest seriousness. We have already asked the regional health companies, which are the main address of this criticism, to review point by point the health oversight report and to follow up on the points relevant to each health business. It is essential for the service to function well, to follow up the Storting's assumption of a shift in psychiatry towards a more open psychiatry, and to follow up the Storting's assumption that there should be a whole in the context of local-based psychiatry and hospital psychiatry and district psychiatric centres. There are obviously major challenges that remain. The same applies to the individual patient’s right to individual plans. It's not a right you can satisfy if you want, it's a right to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e112	I thank the Council of State for the answer. According to the press release of Health Mid-Norway on 10 March, the Board of Directors has stopped all construction projects and investments in the region where binding agreements have not been concluded. This particularly applies to the development of district psychiatric centres in Volda, Ålesund, Molde, Kristiansund, Leistad and Stjørdal. Will the Minister for Health as an Enterprise Meeting immediately intervene with Health Mid-Norway and ensure that the development continues unhindered? Plan documents are available for this expansion. According to Mr. Hareide, Vice President of the Christian People's Party, will bet on psychiatry. Does this mean that the Minister of Health can promise greater appropriations both for investment and for the operation of the psychiatry in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e123	In the revised national budget, the Government will come back with a review of the investment framework and debt financing in this context, as provided for in the 2004 budget line. Then we will also come back to the question on which the representative Alvheim is based. We have started a dialogue with health companies and with Health Mid Norway in the extension of the decision to which the representative Alvheim referred, which is extremely unsatisfactory and therefore requires a follow-up. We are in the process, and we will, as I said, come back to the Storting in the revised national budget in relation to the investment and loan frameworks. I can also confirm to the representative Alvheim, since he also asked me as party leader a question, that the Christian People's Party will give priority to increasing resources and investment for the psychiatry in future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e132	There will be follow-up questions – Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e135	That's how the Health Minister confirmed in his reply to the previous question, that the Storting actually gives more and more money to the psychiatry. Nevertheless, we hear about the aggregation of treatment sites and the closure of treatment sites, in particular those patients who need a little longer stay in an institution in order to obtain stability in treatment. And then my question to the Minister of Health: how does he check that Storting's assumption that no offers should be removed until a better offer for patients is built up, not broken? Are health businesses following the assumption of the Storting? I'm in doubt about the many enquiries we get here to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e142	We have given the Department a clear lead towards health companies that in the transition to psychiatry, which requires a reduction and a build-up, the offer to patients should be ensured in such a way that an offer is not made without an alternative offer to the same patients. There have been crystal clear governance signals about this, and they are followed up in the governance dialogue with health businesses and through the establishment of a national mental health strategy group, where all five regional health businesses participate. It is also the case that the Social and Health Directorate has a follow-up to the results along the way. What is often happening in the public debate is mixing what is an adopted conversion by the Storting and what is pure cutting and closing of offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e150	Per Ove Wide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e153	My supplementary question goes to the Minister of Defence. Unfortunately, during the participation of Norwegian forces in foreign operations, not least in Kosovo during these days, from time to other situations that result in psychological damage to soldiers. With the evolution we see today in conflict areas where Norway is contributing forces, it is likely that there will be an increase in this type of damage. We also know from experience from previous foreign assignments that there has been a need for a long-term follow-up of this type of patient. What has the Minister of Defense done to ensure that there is sufficient treatment for this group, and in what way are the soldiers being followed up when they have finished their service and once again are part of civil society?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e162	This is a problem that has been addressed by this pulpit several times in the last year, and I am pleased that the members of the Defence Committee also pay great attention to what may be the consequences of our international commitment. I would first like to stress that it has been shown that defence personnel who have been in international service actually have less mental problems than personnel who have not been in the corresponding service. This is primarily due to the fact that we have a significant evaluation process in advance, and a significant training activity and quality assurance of the personnel we send out. In addition, we conduct extensive conversations with the staff when they are back, and those who need it are offered help. In addition, I would like to draw attention to a letter from the undersigned to the President of the United Kingdom on 3 March 2004, which provides information on a draft regulation on compensation for late payments, which is being discussed by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e171	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e174	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Health. I realized that the Minister of Health's message is that much of what is perceived as cut is actually conversion and thus does not mean a reduction in relation to the psychiatry escalation plan. SV has tried to obtain some data on this and has thus learned that in the Health Region of the West, the number of day-care institutions in psychiatry is reduced by 12 pst. from 1998 to 2002, despite the escalation plan for psychiatry. We see that for Ullevål Hospital, there is talk of shutting down, from April 30, a treatment offer for young people with violent and aggressive behaviour, where cooperation with Alternatives to Violence has been abandoned, which has been the basis for the work. We see that there is a big cut in mental health protection in Oslo, under Aker Hospital, that cuts 32.5 million. SEK in a total savings project of 70 million. kr. We have a long list of examples of cuts, for example. the closure of psychiatric hospitals without replacing it with other services. How can the Minister of Health explain that, in the health region by health region, a cut-off is made when he says that the offers should be strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e185	Firstly, it is necessary to distinguish between cuts which are part of a budgetary process and those which have actually been adopted. Secondly, it is necessary to distinguish between changing services — from day-to-day treatment to outpatient treatment, from hospital treatment where there is no particularly active treatment, to district psychiatric centres and active treatment in municipalities. This is a solid transformation of a sector, which means that not everything should be as it has been before. Having said that, I would like to say that there is no doubt that decisions have also been taken in healthcare companies that are contrary to the guidelines given. We have followed up in line with the guidelines we have given, towards health companies, in the cases where it has happened. In the case of concrete cooperation with Alternatives to Violence, there is a process in progress to ensure a sound offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e194	Ola D. Lukewarm – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e197	Let me first point out that it is very important that the Minister of Health and the Department now follow up on the fact that it is not being built up and closed up before new and better offers have come into place. So a little comment on this with rushes and psychiatry. We now see that many long-term institutions are struggling because no one wants to take financial responsibility by keeping their clients there. It has become a grey zone since the introduction of Rusreform II, which is very regrettable and which needs to be cleaned up quickly. The municipalities feel, among other things: resources have been removed if they are to pay for these clients. But the most important thing I think is what happened when, two weeks ago in this Chamber, we dealt with the National Audit Office's report on health companies and economic disposals, namely that the Department also misappropriates some of the funds for the psychiatric sector, by using the wrong distribution key. This is what I expect the Minister of Health to be well aware of. I also expect that it is difficult and wrong to take back funds from those who have been given too much in relation to the distribution key. Will the Minister for Health adjust this with additional funds in the context of the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e206	One of the main challenges in psychiatry is double diagnosis, where clients have both a drug problem and a mental disorder. I believe that the drug reform adopted by the Storting will provide opportunities for a far more professionally qualified response to drug addicts, and it gives drug users rights as patients, and that is important. It is not the case that the responsibility of municipalities for drug users has changed in relation to this reform. Nor have the budgets of the primary municipalities been drawn out in proportion to the responsibilities of the municipalities and continue to have for drug users. However, it is quite clear that when such a major change is made, it is necessary, as the representative Lutvold had to do, to follow developments closely and then evaluate them. With regard to the distribution keys, the distribution keys of the income system have been used. There is no fault with them except that they could have more closely reflected their needs. There you will have to constantly search for better distribution keys.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e215	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e218	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: The defense today ends the winter exercise Joint Winter in the allied training areas around Harstad and in the inner Troms, where foreign forces have also participated. The exercise has been qualitatively very good, with winter training between weapons, between allies and with the participation of the highest we can show by Norwegian defense. But what surprises me is that the concept and framework of the exercise is that the ‘bad’ country of Redland in the east is attacking the ‘smart’ country of Blueland, which is of course in the west. It's been a few years since Communism's fall. Shouldn't the scenario change next year's practice? That is, should not the framework and concept of the great exercises we have in Norway reflect today's reality in terms of threat images?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e228	Well, of course, the exercises should reflect the reality of the day. They do so very much in the case of Joint Winter. I would therefore like to begin by saying that I am pleased that the representative Marit Nybakk gave credit for the practice of the highest level of departments and with important allies during the exercise. It is a primary purpose for all exercises on Norwegian soil. It's not right to have a traditional war between a Blueland and a Redland. It's an Opforia force that has battles with Blueland, and Opforia is simply an abbreviation for the opposition forces, i.e. the opponent's forces. What is essential to this exercise is what is essential to the new defence concept presented in the four-year plan. First of all, we have forces that are socially integrated, that is, we have close cooperation with Homeland Protection, and we are based on duty of protection. The second element is that we're allies integrated, so we need to train closely with our closest allies. The third is that we have to be able to solve all the tasks the defense is facing, not only a threat to terrorism, but also traditional border threats, peacekeeping operations, stabilising operations abroad. Fourth, we need to be able to solve this by having flexible, relevant and fast-acting forces. All of this is underlined in this exercise. We have had our special forces there, and we have had the same Swedish special forces that were in the Congo, who have been trained on issues that are extremely relevant to the war on terror in which they have participated. The Norwegian Special Forces have, among other things: based on experience from the war on terrorism in Afghanistan and planted it into the exercise. We have had drilling operations that are very relevant in the fight against terrorism. We have had submarines and MTBs, which, with their experience of protecting civil traffic in the internal Mediterranean against terrorism, have shown their relevance and have trained what they need. So the exercise is very future-relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e237	I agree with a lot of what the Council of State says. But it doesn't change the concept itself, the framework conditions for this exercise, which is very old-fashioned. In the evening post yesterday, Lieutenant General Skiaker defended the framework of this exercise and, in addition, made some perceptive statements that the police are to take responsibility for terror, and that this is not the task of the Defense, and that what is relevant in today's worldview is to train to use military power against other military power. But this is breaking with Skiaker's statements to Defence Network on 24 February, where he is very much in agreement with what I am saying now, and what I said to the evening post yesterday. There he says, among other things. there is a lot of evidence to suggest that there will be consequential changes in practice forms. He says it's about practicing right, among other things. by setting up the exercise against civil actors, such as the police, and by training in terrorist activities. What do Skiaker and the defense team really mean we're going to train for or against? What kind of defense does the defence team think we should have – a traditional invasion defence or a defense just for international operations? In that case, both options are fundamentally wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e246	In the light of its long experience and not least its work as NATO's top executive in Kosovo, and since the head of the FOHK for all the operations in which we are responsible for Norwegian personnel outside, General Skiaker has made a very relevant exercise. That exercise has helped qualify the personnel we're going to send to Afghanistan to do that job. That exercise is what enables our personnel in Kosovo to cope with the very difficult situation there. And that exercise has elements in it that are relevant both to what we are doing today in Iraq, and to what we have been doing today in the internal Mediterranean. At the same time, elements relevant to a war against terrorism — such as boarding operations or dealing with hidden terrorist groups have been introduced. So this exercise is not old-fashioned, despite the fact that it is set as the overall framework that there are two forces against each other. It is the elements of the exercise that determine its relevance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e253	There will be four follow-up questions – first Gunnar Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e256	Former Minister of Defence Godal transformed the defence from an invasion defence to an intervention defence through St. prp. No 45 for 2000-2001, but migration has posed many challenges, and not all changes have slipped as smoothly. I can mention Huseby and the move to Akershu's fortress, the dock at Haakonsvern, the conversion of the Defence Logistics Organisation, Defence Building and many other things. My question is whether we can be sure that the leadership of the defence will follow up, or whether inappropriate decision-making will be the subject of retaliation and training.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e263	Of course, decisions are followed up. We also know that from the round we had last year, for example. related to the MTBs, where we took a decision and followed up what was the Storting intention – to take one example – despite the fact that there could be some disagreement in advance. The decision on a modern reaction defense is also followed up, and the exercise we just touched on, in the previous question, shows how the defence follows up the decision of the Stortinge, inter alia. to obtain wishes from our allies, British, Americans, others who participate, about what it is useful for them to practice in relation to the challenges of modern defence. That's what we're basing when, for example, we're dealing with. creates a concept of practice. So my impression is that current defence management is very loyal to the decision of the Great Government, and that this government's intention is to follow the development that former councillor Bjørn Tore Godal started.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e272	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e275	I think there's a reason to go a little bit closer to this particular problem. If it is that one assumes that the defense loyally follows up what the Stortinge provided and adopted, it is a little surprising that the examples that the representative Halvorsen now mentioned have not actually been followed up, and that there are also further examples of things that have not been followed up. There is one from my neighborhood, which concerns a rehabilitation centre for cancer victims in Hysnes, where Shifte Eiendom can now actually be accused of training the process. So I think it's probably a timely problem to ask why one then has not followed up some of the decisions that have been taken, and especially now, in a situation where the Storting is going through a discussion of the long-term plan that will lead to important assumptions that will fall into some important decisions, and which will also certainly result from the negotiation of the parties on the Storting between, which does not necessarily become exactly as the defence management has wanted. That is why I have to repeat the question: why has not part of the decisions been followed up? And can we trust that they will in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e284	I cannot say that, on the basis of the question put by the representative Arnstad, I was given clarity as to which decisions had not been followed up. There is a specific mention here of Rissa. There is the Stortingen decision to sell property owned by the Defence Building. The decision of the Storting is that the Defence Building should sell 2 million. m2 building mass on the private market in order to obtain revenues to finance new and more important investments in Defence. And that's the disposal instruction that's used for these sales. There is no decision in Stortinget to give Rissa away. It is the disposal instructions that form the basis, and it is Shifte Eiendom's job to be negotiating with the municipality of Rissa. When this was treated before Christmas, among others. in the budget debate, as far as I can remember, it was emphasised that the negotiators – the parties negotiating a prize – must then be allowed to do so, as they have been delegated powers to. Price negotiations cannot take place in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e289	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e292	The Norwegian defence has in a short time moved from a defensive to an offensive defence, a so-called tangible defence, where the unforeseeableness of the threat picture is used as a justification for the conversion. The major winter exercises are planned and still carried out in view of invasion from the east, which in the doctrine is not considered a real threat. You get frigates and missile torpedo boats for the same purpose. Is this an expression of an internal disagreement about what are the real, real security threats to Norwegian territories and interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e298	This is an expression that the defense loyally follows up on what is the new defence concept: that we should be able to deal with a set of different threats in an unpredictable future where there are many scenarios that can occur. And there are many scenarios that can occur at the same time. The exercise we just went into, Joint Winter, has not been an exercise based on invasion from the east. There has been an exercise to test out that in all those parts of the Defense that are going to meet a set of different future tasks, whether these are the North, Afghanistan and Iraq, accidents or terrorist wars, we are going to be able to meet the tasks. But it would be equally wrong to go from a situation where we concentrated all our activity on invasion from the east to a situation where we focus all our activity on a terrorist threat. Stabilisation tasks in Kosovo and Iraq are also relevant. Coping with situations in the north is also relevant. And in it lies the very essence of modern defence: versatility, flexibility and reaction ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e305	Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e308	My question is about the traffic we have along the coast, and especially about the fact that there is a leased-in vessel that I assume lies under the defense, at least it has been stated that the Coast Guard is also going to participate in the towing. We're familiar with practice doing masters. So far, we have seen one picture of the practice of towing vessels. Does the Ministry of Defence have a plan for how to set up such exercises, and for how to drag them even in bad weather?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e315	The representative's question just underlines my previous point, namely that the defence must be able to handle a wide range of tasks, and that there must also be a wide range of tasks we have to practice. The case here, namely the possibility of accidents along our coast, not least in relation to Russian tankers carrying dangerous loads up and down, shows the need for flexibility in our capacity and flexibility in the way we set up a practice and training pattern. This is precisely taken into account in the future scenarios we put into practice. In the explicit case that the representative Bastisen addresses, it is clear that training, practice, preparedness and sailing within the Maritime Defense itself will probably be the right way to deal with it, while other areas of practice it will be most natural to take in large, allied exercises with a volume of 8 500 men, as we saw in North Norway. But in terms of the goal of being able to solve a set of problems, we're completely in agreement, and that's the whole point of how we put the exercises together.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e324	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e327	My main question is to the Minister of Health. On March 22nd, 15 000 children live with mentally ill parents. In addition, a number of other children with mental illness have to wait a very long time for treatment. I also addressed this issue to the Minister of Health in connection with a debate in Stortinget yesterday. So we see that there is a shortage of resources in psychiatry to be able to prioritize those who are most vulnerable, namely children and young people, often with serious disorders. In parallel with that, we've had an average wage increase of approx. NOK 100000 for superiors and doctors in general in the hospital sector, corresponding to SEK 710 million. kr. In a reply to me in a reply yesterday, the Council of State said: ‘When the representative, Mr Ballo, talks about policy-makers withdrawing the management of hospitals in the context of pay relationships, I have to ask if he intends to withdraw the employer’s responsibility from regional health companies and place it in Stortinget.’ This means that the Minister of Health does not focus on the wage growth that has been relative to prioritizing the weakest groups. Hasn't the Minister of Health intended to re-address those problems, to ensure that the weakest groups are given priority within the health system?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e343	If the representative of Ballo had taken the time to read the complete record of what I said in the debate yesterday, he would have recorded that I had critical remarks about the salary growth for doctors. But I believe that the Storting must deal with the rules of the labour market in such a way that the parties make the agreements. It is the authorities that impose the framework conditions and the leadership. That will be my starting point for the forthcoming wage negotiations. Having said that, I must say that I share the concerns and concerns of the representative of Ballo with the very least and the most vulnerable who suffer from mental illness. The representative Ballo mentioned children of parents with mental disorders. In the strategy plan presented by the Government in the autumn on the mental health of children, we have just focused on this group, that treatment needs to be based more on the situation of families, both in the case of drug users and in the case of children of parents with mental disorders. Several measures have been identified in this strategy plan. One of the measures will be to use the funding mechanisms we now have for patient training, which is aimed not only at patients but also at their closest to supporting those who will live with those who suffer. That's something I want to put a lot of emphasis on in the future. Let me also remind you that child and youth psychiatry is a priority area in both municipal and state mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e352	In a previous response from the Minister of Health, I recorded that he describes a situation in which health care businesses, to the extent that they announce cuts – and it may also be within psychiatry, including child and youth psychiatry – but that the result is not necessarily that it is cut. It is quite obvious that when it comes to reducing the provision of services to those groups that are already the most disadvantaged, health businesses are, in effect, taking into account the fact that there may be reductions here. Otherwise it must be pointless to have it on a cut-off list with plans for reduction. Now the Minister of Health has said several times that he has given leadership to health businesses that it should not be cut in these areas. It is about conversion, but then in order to strengthen the offer. Will the Minister of Health now take initiatives towards health businesses so that they do not remove offers until new, better offers are in place and that they are actually strengthened in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e363	That initiative has already been taken. After a review we had with the regional health companies in winter, we presented to them a further and reinforced clarification of the assumptions that the representative Ballo and I have repeatedly exchanged views on in this room, where I have clearly stated what should be governing, and it is going to be followed up. However, there is a difficult situation in health enterprises, because, at the same time as being invested in a selected area such as psychiatry, it must also be made more effective and transformed across the whole sector. I think it is quite important to have targeted governance both by the political authorities and by regional health businesses to ensure that. It's a problem I've undertaken to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e370	There will be three follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e373	I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Health. One thing is that we're expanding the psychiatry. There's more money in psychiatry, i.e., in dollars and cents. But the most important thing for the patient is to get inside the psychiatry, actually get the help you need, and that we have an efficiency within this system that makes you meet competent personnel and the kind of health professionals you actually need. Then it is worrying that we are still faced with problems such as the average treatment of 1.4 patients by a psychiatrist in Norway. day(s) Then it's no wonder that we need more and more resources in this country, including in psychiatry, to get help for those who need it. My question to the Minister of Health is this: what is now being done actively in relation to psychiatric care to actually increase effectiveness and ensure that more patients are treated per year. hired?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e383	I basically agree with Mr Nesvik's representative. We need to focus not only on those who are in the psychiatry, who get help in the psychiatry, but at least as much focus must be on those who are waiting for help. In such a situation, we cannot afford the luxury that it is that there are so few patients per. treats like we've seen a lot of numbers in recent years. Therefore, the escalation plan focuses on increasing productivity. I have challenged the professional environments, probably also irritated them on me, just to make sure that this is taken seriously. We now see that from the start of the escalation plan up to 2004, productivity has increased by about 30 pst. in paediatric psychiatry, and by 7 pst. in adult psychiatry. That means the goal of 50 pst. Increases are well within the reach of paediatric psychiatry, while we have some major challenges for adult psychiatry. But we have to follow up on this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e390	Sigbjørn Molvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e393	In SV, we are very concerned about the situation in psychiatry, especially in the case of children and young people. The mean waiting time for treatment is now 79 days for this group. This is average waiting time, which means that many seriously ill children and young people go waiting for treatment for several months, perhaps as long as half a year. We know, unfortunately, that many people are simply going to die in this waiting period. The representative, Ballo, has now given us examples of how others – directors and highly paid doctors – are sticking out of farms with large parts of the resource increase allocated by the Stortinget to health businesses. Does this not indicate that there is a need not only for critical comments but for radical action, as regards the management of the resources of the specialist health service already in the revised budget this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e400	It is a fact that more and more children and young people are being helped by psychiatry, but it is also a fact that more and more people are seeking help. It is related to the expansion of the offer, and to the improvement of the availability of the offer, to attitudes in society that make it easier to admit that you are struggling with your mental health, and that's good. But something of the same happens when you build a road – the traffic is refilled quite quickly, even if the capacity is increased. That's the situation we're facing, we're going to have to face an increased effort against the weakest and the sickest. The representative Molvik links this to some unfortunate relationships related to directors' pension and salary relationships. I have previously announced in this room a review of these matters. It has been implemented and is now under follow-up, both at regional level and at health business level, where it has been based. I have great confidence that companies will also take up the cultural challenges that are in the wake of these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e407	Last follow-up questions in this round – Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e410	The danger here is that we end up in a vicious circle, that we politically justify growth in the budgets with the desire to improve the supply of patients, and then we see that growth provides room for violent wage increases – especially for doctors – which in turn provide a basis for cutting patient supply, triggering political activity to increase budgets to strengthen patient provision. So the danger is that we get a vicious circle. I have great respect for the fact that salary issues are a question of negotiation. But does the Minister of Health not feel that this situation also requires political action, so that we actually ensure that increased appropriations based on better patient provision actually lead to better patient provision?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e417	I have no difficulty in agreeing with Bjarne Håkon Hanssen that we are facing a significant paradox here. The biggest paradox I have seen in the public debate on this was the action of some of these doctors at the University Hospital in North Norway, where they complained about resource scarcity and invited the Minister of Health to come up and point out which patients were not to be treated. It's an expression of an unworthy game around these conditions, and it comes from people who I think are sitting in glasshouses. I have thus also stated that I have clear critical comments, and I believe that it gives wrong signal effects when individual groups receive such large pay supplements as we have seen here examples of. What we can do from a political point of view is to ensure that the competence to conduct wage negotiations in health businesses is strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e426	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e429	I have a question for the Minister of Health regarding care for the elderly, old age medicine and geriatrics. Older people often experience being sent between homes, hospitals and elderly institutions in an eternal dance. We have an increasing number of people of old age who often have many and complex disorders in terms of the picture of the disease. These are treated and medicated for one and one disease at a time and are within many diagnoses and many therapists and drug printers. This leads to mismedication and misuse of medicines, while there may be incomplete medication in relation to, for example: pain management. The community health service is getting more and more patients back from hospitals, and it requires higher levels of competence. The fixed medical system is not good enough in many municipalities. The supervisory system at the institutions of the elderly should be improved. Education and research in geriatry should be increased and stimulated. And last but not least, who is responsible for the total medication of these elderly people, now has to be clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e438	The representative of Glaucoma puts the spotlight on a very important, and a growing, group, which represents a challenge for both health and care services, for which the Minister of Social Affairs is responsible. I think we have to attack this along two paths. Firstly, we need to strengthen the competence – it has to do with research and development – in the areas of geriatrics, age psychiatry, etc., but also the competence of the executive in relation to the representative of Greed pointed to in the handling and administration of drugs. Secondly, we have to attack the systemically. Today, we need a better interaction between the different parts of healthcare than what we have. We have implemented a permanent reform that has been very successful. It works very well after the evaluation and to the satisfaction of users. We have implemented a hospital reform where we still have major implementation challenges, and where we are to propose an evaluation and an adjustment to the points on which it may be based. But when the two reforms are in place, I imagine that the next generation of health reform will go on interaction, interaction, the whole between the first line and the second line, for the benefit of those patients who, both frequently and with great challenges, cross these limits of responsibility. We see good results from attempts at an overall approach, including: in Trondheim, where healthcare companies and the municipality cooperate on intermediate wards in a nursing home. I have put down a sample that during this year will explore the basis for such an interaction reform, such an overall reform between the first and second lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e447	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I'm glad there's going to be an increased focus on age medicine and geriatrics. I also believe that the status of this part of medicine should be increased precisely by focusing on both vocational training and research. General medical training must be strengthened in relation to geriatrics and old age medicine. Then I want to ask the Minister of Health: will he help you, for example. can an electronic medical card be developed that can accompany the patient, so that the home health care and other actors can be clearly informed about the medication, that this is properly coordinated, and that a clarification is given before what the health minister was about in relation to overall clinical and medical responsibilities? One doctor must have the overall responsibility for the individual so that the medication can be properly followed in order to obtain an adequate allocation of medications and an adequate allocation of medications, not least in relation to the pain treatment of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e457	The last point is a matter that the Minister of Social Affairs and I work together on the follow-up to the extension of work to enhance the quality of care services. The question of an electronic patient card has been investigated. It will be relevant to re-examine it in the context of international developments in this area, where, within the EU, it is now largely prepared to use that type of tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e464	It will be a follow-up question – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e467	As the Minister of Health was involved, this is an area that is more heterogeneous and perhaps more complex than before. The hospital reform has led to a different type of responsibilities between hospital and community health services for the elderly who are being treated. The structure of care for the elderly has also changed, while the age group is more varied and has more varied living conditions than before. Like the representative of Lutvold, I am concerned that this is about the possibility of competence and education in the care of the elderly to get proper treatment of the different groups, but also about how to get better interaction between the state and the municipality, between health companies and community health services. I agree with many of the considerations put forward by the Minister of Health, but the answer to what was said here is not that responsibility is once again shifted to the municipalities, but that the Government, first of all, takes a clear responsibility for establishing the interaction that needs to be established, and, secondly, is also willing to grant the necessary resources on the educational side in the area of care for the elderly. The question here is, is the government willing to take that responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e476	I definitely believe that we are not just willing to take responsibility, but that we have taken responsibility. When the Minister of Social Affairs and I have launched an investigation into a reform based on better interaction between primary health services and specialist health services, it is not to push responsibility. It is on the contrary to identify the areas of overlapping responsibilities or neighbouring responsibilities that exist, and how, through the funding system, through legislation and through organisation and procedures, this can be seen more as a whole for the patients for whom the system is for. I have great faith, based on the experiences that have been gained in some places in the country, among others. in Arnstad’s own region, that it is actually possible to do so without pushing on the responsibility, and without resuming the question of the division of tasks and responsibilities between the State and the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e481	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e484	I have a question for the Social Minister. I stand here with an interview with the social minister yesterday gave to the TV 2 Nettavisen, where the social minister comments on an increase in sick leave of almost 9 p.m., which concerns the social minister. And I agree that there is reason to feel concerned about it. But in the interview, the social minister says that we have a culture that too many people are away from work. And then I ask myself, is the problem of sick leave a cultural problem, or is it another type of problem? Finn Bergesen, Jr., says that we are "a nation of symers". My question is then: is it that the increase in sick leave is due to the fact that we become later and later, that we are optimists and nurses, and that we cynically exploit the sickness pay system, or are the other, more complex, problems that lead to an increase in sick leave? Are the Nordics away from work because they're sick, or is it because they're late?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e493	I have no intention of participating in any moralization of what some have mentioned by using words such as sutring or evading. The fact that people are away from work is a complex problem. When I play on culture, it's about attention to being ill, instead of being much more aware of what you can do despite being sick, despite being treated, and despite having a diagnosis – there are many who go to work for it. It is about employers' specific responsibilities to facilitate the proper functioning of employees in a divided and adapted way at work. It's about a culture on the employers' side. It is also about a culture in relation to doctors and doctors' attitudes to being concerned with the whole of the human being, the whole of the patient, who also has a life outside the medical office, and where the doctor may often not know the workplace, so that interaction between patients, employers and doctors can be established to facilitate this. For this reason, the Government will also propose mandatory measures that ‘force’ both the employer, employee and doctor to make a plan, to facilitate and to have this contact. When sick leave increases, we just see that cooperation doesn't work. Employers have a special responsibility. Both sick leave in IA companies – including work-life businesses – and sick leave elsewhere are increasing, and that means that the parties have a special responsibility to ensure that we now get results from what has been agreed and that the Government retrusts, namely the Memorandum of Understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e502	I thank you for the answer, which I think was an interesting and good answer. I think it is important to stress that when Finn Bergesen Jr. calls the Nordics'syner', it is interesting that the Social Minister in Stortinget makes it clear that an important reason why sick leave is increasing is that employers do not take the responsibility they have. I think that is an important emphasis on the part of the Minister of Social Affairs. But when the Social Minister answers as she does, in Stortinget, it's strange that the first spinal reflex that obviously goes through the Right Big Group when this problem comes up is that the representative Ivar Kristiansen immediately goes out on TV and says that the answer is to punish the workers by further hitting their welfare systems, and immediately escalates with the introduction of qualifying days. Now I am very pleased that the Government does not agree with the Right Grandfather Group, and I am pleased that the Social Minister is confirming it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e511	The government is standing by the appointment. When we look at sick leave, we see that long-term absence is increasing, not short-term absence. It's the medically reported sick leave that increases. Then it's about that there's not enough interaction – or there's a lack of interaction – between the three actors I mentioned. At the same time, the Government renews its confidence in the agreement. In cooperation with the parties, the Government will propose a number of measures to make a greater commitment, plus criminal reactions: If the doctor does not follow up with a functional assessment and is included in this obligatory cooperation, the doctor may lose the right to sickness. If the patient, the employee, is not willing to participate in this arrangement and help to make an assessment of what you can actually do, you may lose the right to get sick. Employers must contribute to the actual organisation of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e516	There will be follow-up questions – first Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e519	It is worrying, based on at least two factors, that sick leave is increasing. One is that it involves a high cost for employers and for society. The other thing, which may be so important, is that the individual worker does not have the power to work and do his work. We have a contract agency that says that working conditions in the individual workplace should be facilitated so that you can work even if you are not 100 pst. fresh. However, the input we get from different teams suggests that each employer, both in the public and private sectors, does not at all facilitate the situation as the contract work we have suggests that it does – i.e. more or less a sabotage, to put it a little to the fore. There is an important reason for high sick leave. Then my question is: what will the Minister of Social Affairs do to ensure that employers, who have the most important means, follow up the organisation of an employee who is not 100 pst. fresh?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e529	This is a very important question, and that is precisely what there have been discussions between the parties in the follow-up to the Inclusion Workplace Memorandum. The government is itself an employer and will enter into relations with all departments and underlying areas further to follow up the IA agreement. We also want a meeting with the parties just about this alarming development. With regard to all employers who do not follow up, that is precisely why we are now in and will propose measures such as ‘force’ them, which means that all parties are kept in mind, precisely because we have to reduce our absence. The IA agreement's good on paper, it's good on paper. But it's not enough to be, you have to be. That is why we are also tightening up the measures. The general rule is that you have to be at work. Employers should help to create a plan that facilitates the starting point of the backpack – unless it is medically indicated that you need to be inactive – to be at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e536	Sigbjørn Molvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e539	The sick leave rates we received yesterday tell us that the greatest increase in sick leave is found among women and in the nursing and nursing professions. We know from many different studies that low manning, high labour pressure and heavy lifting cause those working in these professions to suffer health problems and become ill. The State is one of the Contracting Parties to the IA Agreement. At the same time, the State and the Social Minister have overall responsibility for the care sector in the municipalities and the recruitment of personnel in this context. What measures will the Minister of Social Affairs take to fulfil the responsibilities of the State, both in relation to the IA Agreement and in relation to the municipal care sector, in order to improve working conditions in these professions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e546	These are the same measures that the Government will propose to the care sector, which applies to other areas. In all areas, including care and care, sick leave is increased. It also increases in relation to what are inclusive employment contracts. In the care sector in particular, there have actually been some points of light in that sector. They're not good enough to turn out any way, but we see that it's about management, organisation, individual organisation and technical aids. That's why the government spends 130 million. kr in relation to a recruitment plan just in this area, in order to give the individual the competence to see, and also to give more competence to those who are unskilled. In addition, together with the Municipal Councils, we have a project called ‘Fun with people’, which deals with precisely these things, organisation and management. We also see that some of those who have succeeded have arranged so that you can have wanted tours, and that a greater degree of organisation has an effect on sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e551	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e554	The Sandman selection puts the search light on actions at the workplace. I want to ask the State Council: When should the Government put the search light on its own policies in this field? The government's focus is on postponing competition and privatisation, and it increases the pressure on those left in the different workplaces. It also applies to scarce frameworks in the municipal sector and to conversion and depopulation in state-owned enterprises. It is word at the right time when Professor Steinar Westin says in Our Country today that it is «the council of the working life that drives people into the medical offices». He advises the Minister of Social Affairs to talk to the Minister of Transport, because that's where the pressure is now in relation to the additional outsourcing. This time the NSB and the NSB were added there. Will the Council of State listen to that Council, and will it also put the search light on the Government's own policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e561	I hear that the representative Kleppa believes that the government will stop interfering, so that we are no longer going to have a tender, we are no longer going to convert, we are no longer going to streamline. It's the way in Norwegian society, in all areas, that we're committed to the people we're here to ensure that we manage the funds and get the best results for people. This means that, in parallel with our efficiency and conversion, we look at good ways to organise businesses, to be able to have an inclusive working life that allows us to see the individual. The government also takes responsibility for these areas, and we have renewed attention to it now. We see that this is absolutely necessary, and that in many places it is also the case in our own business that the individual does not get enough, and that the employer does not provide sufficient facilities. And if you can be part of the work, you need to use classified search messages and non-active search messages, just to ensure that your contact with the workplace is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e568	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e574	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 13, from Mr Ryan's representative to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport who is directing him. Question 14, from the representative of Mr Rudihagen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 15, from the representative of Mr Vaggen Malvik to the Minister for the Environment, has been withdrawn. Question 17, from the representative Heidi Sørensen of the Minister of Labour and Administration, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 2.In addition, question 12 was removed from the representative Trond Giske to the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e597	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e600	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as the President said will be answered by the Minister for Finance: ‘WTO negotiations between Russia and Norway have led to a reduction in customs duties on fish for Russia from 15 to 20 to 3 to 4 pst. How can the WTO be used to reduce the customs duties of the EU and other countries on Norwegian fish?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e609	The negotiations between Norway and Russia to which the representative Bastesen refers are part of Russia’s accession negotiations to the WTO. These negotiations have not yet been concluded, and it is therefore too early to say what will be the final outcome, including what will be the amount of any tariff reductions. In order to reduce the customs duties of the EU and other countries on Norwegian fish, this is essential for our work in the current WTO round of negotiations. The reduction, and in the long term the elimination of customs duties, is a key objective of the negotiations on market access for industrial products, which also includes fish. For Norway, it is therefore very important that real negotiations in the WTO continue now and that we can achieve a result that is not pushed too far in time. We actively contribute to getting the negotiations back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e616	I have the following additional questions: Will Norway meet with a demand for a lower customs duty on agricultural products or a reduction in agricultural aid when we promote the desire for a lower customs duty? How do we relate to these connections?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e621	First of all, I would like to say when the representative refers to the negotiations with Russia in his question, that these have not been concluded. Ordinary practice in international negotiations suggests that concrete information of the type referred to here, i.e. the percentages used by the question, is treated confidentially by the negotiating partners until the end of the negotiations. That's why I can't confirm or cancel out the actual number-sizes to which it refers. In other words, it is too early to say anything about the concrete outcome of these negotiations between Russia and the WTO. It is therefore also difficult at this stage to rely on these figures in negotiations for Norway in the WTO area. It is the government's experience that all questions are related to everything when negotiating different parts of the WTO negotiations, but the direct link to which the requester refers is not necessarily the right one.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e628	I find that I have not received an answer to the question. I thank you for that. It is now the case that in international negotiations, both with the WTO and with the EU, we are faced with demands in relation to agricultural products. But I note, as I said, that I have not received an answer to the question that I asked. The second thing I want to say is that the liberalisation of trade in industrial products has come a long way. When fish are defined as an industrial product in the WTO, must this also mean that the fish tariff is at stake?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e637	The President will note that gratitude is a virtue. But it's the first time the president's heard that it's been driven so far that you've thanked for not having received an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e640	It has a natural context in which responding to what is going on in non-negotiation can be difficult. The questioner asks what will happen in the forthcoming WTO negotiations. As you know, we are now in a process where the parties aim to adapt their requirements to allow a resumption of the process. It is not unknown that Norway is among the countries that are subject to some criticism of its high duty of protection on agricultural products from some of the developed countries, not to mention a large group of developing countries. So that agricultural products are a topic of the WTO negotiations, there is no special news, but it is not just for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e651	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘Countries have invested a lot of money in facilitating the defence establishment in Østerdal garrison. Now it turns out that the municipality doesn't get the tax income planned from soldiers with 3 years of contract in the Telemark Battalion, because the shelves are 7 square feet too small to require a transfer to Rena. Can the Council of State consider amending the legislation when concluding contracts as long as 3 years, even if the number of square metres is not enough?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e660	In accordance with the Ministry of Finance’s regulations to the Tax Code, a person shall be regarded as residing in the place where he has his home in relation to the tax rules. In case the person commutes between several dwellings, it will depend on several factors which dwelling should be considered a tax residence. One of these factors will be whether the individual dwelling has to be characterised as independent or involuntary. If the place of residence at the place of work has to be characterised as independent, the solution becomes continuous that the taxpayer is considered resident in this independent dwelling. Only houses or apartments with a living area of at least 30 m2 and a built-in water and sewerage are considered as self-contained dwellings. It is also required that the commuter owns or disposes of the dwelling for a period which must be assumed to have a minimum of one year and that the commuter has access to all days of the week. The tax residence rules for commuters were amended with effect from the 2001 income year. In the past, the requirements for self-catering accommodation were met if the dwelling had the kitchen and the taxpayer disposed of it for a period of at least six months. This led to even small and hybel-like lodges in the larger cities being regarded as the commuter's tax residence. The commuter then lost the right to deduct the commuting to his normal full dwelling in the old home district, and this home municipality lost tax from him or her. Today's rules on, among other things, at least 30 m2 of living space is the result of the changes that have occurred. Only when the commuter has the standard of living at the place of work specified by today’s rules will it be appropriate to treat the dwelling as a tax residence rather than a full dwelling in the old home district. So today's rules give commuter deductions to several lone commuters, and the old municipalities get more of the tax from them. In other words, that the municipality of employment receives less of the tax follows these rules. If, in line with the question from the representative, Bredvold, we lower the requirements for self-employment in the municipality of employment by more permanent work there, the result will be a decline in the amount of the commuting deduction for single and a transfer of tax income from district municipalities to central labour municipalities. I would consider that to be irrelevant now, in the light of the Storting's consideration of the matter earlier. It would complicate legislation to allow particularly long-term commuting, for example. for more than two years, into lower housing standards in the municipality of employment. Such a change could also seem poorly adapted to the more common ways of adjusting. In the case of particularly long-term commuting, most people would rather aim at a larger dwelling than a smaller one in the municipality. Family caregivers are usually considered to be tax residents of the spouse or children, regardless of the standard and size of the two dwellings. Therefore, the changes in the direction outlined by the representative Bredvold will not give any extra tax revenue to the municipality of employment from family carers. After this, I cannot see that the cases in the municipality of Åmvet, with military lodge of less than 30 m2, indicate any change in the tax residence code for commuters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e679	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was both long and extensive, and not least instructive for those who do not know the law. Against the municipality, with Rena as its center, on behalf of the big community, has said yes to the establishment of the Defence in the Østerdalen. They have invested approx. 300 million. kr. Very much of this investment has been financed by loans. It has been invested in kindergartens, infrastructure, cultural buildings, etc. to ensure that those who work in the Defence shall have their service needs met. Then, of course, they want to get tax revenue in return for this investment, so that they can pay off the loans they have, and not least interest. The defence is in a special position for workers living in the district. This is not what the Minister of Finance says, that you commute from district municipalities to central labour municipalities. Against the municipality is far out in the district, to say it like this, it's a district municipality. At that time, one would think that the establishment of the defence might indicate that this legislation could be viewed somewhat when contracts were concluded for three years or longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e688	I have no comment to give to the description of the conditions in Opom. It's probably true that the questioner here sketches about the big investments that have been made. To the specific question of whether we should have special rules for military employees, I will answer no, that would not be right and fair. On the question of having special rules for particularly long commuter stays, the answer is still no, as I said in my first answer, because it will complicate the legislation. The questioner's party, in other words, together with my party, is very concerned that we should have a simple and comprehensible code. General changes to the rules on commuting will be easy – unintentionally in relation to the respondent – district municipalities and give fewer singles, or singles, commuter deductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e697	I thank you once again for the answer, which was not a positive one, seen with my eyes, and seen from Åmot Municipality. It's basically a coincidence that these hyles were 23 m2, says Project Manager Kristian Slorbak in Defence Building. It chose the size of 23 m2, but it might as well have been chosen 30 m2. Obviously, had it been 30 m2, this wouldn't have been a problem for those who are lonely, those who don't have family where they come from. Here one might have to bet more on voluntary movement instead of coercion. For a municipality that has invested so much money, and believed and thought that it would get some tax revenue back, this seems unfortunate. My question was whether it is possible to grant a derogation on the basis of long contracts, in this case three-year contracts or longer. What I mean by longer is that more of those in the Telemark Battalion want to extend the three-year contract and maybe live there even further. I am aware that the legislation is strict, and a regulation should be strict, it should be simple, but I had hoped that there would be opportunities to grant exemptions when the contract is so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e710	I've answered that question before, twice. In addition, I would like to say that what I presented in my first and – as the representative quite rightly remarked – a long response, is a code that has existed since 2001, so it would have been possible to get involved in the legislation and then set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e717	So we go to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e724	I have a question for the new Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘The Minister for the Environment and the Government have undertaken to stop the use of rainforest timber in the construction sector. Bilinga is a endangered tree that grows in Central Africa and is on the international red list of endangered species. In the new theory building at the University of Tromsø, State Building has used this wood. There's nothing to suggest that the wood is high in a sustainable way. What will the Council of State do in this specific matter, and how will he prevent this from happening again?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e733	The President has some doubts as to whether the Minister of Labour and Administration is new longer, but be so good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e736	Initially, I would like to stress that there is a great deal of emphasis on the use in the country of materials and methods consistent with the principles of sustainable development. In the case of State Building, this means that the activities are to choose building materials with an environmental declaration based on international ISO standards. As part of an active environmental strategy, Statsbyggen has developed its own environmental guidance as a tool for interpreting and evaluating the environmental data of different products. This shows that State buildings focus on the use of environmentally sound materials and working methods in the performance of their activities. With regard to the specific case of the use of caringa park in the theoretical knowledge building at the University of Tromsø, the Department has received a briefing from Statsbåg. It shows that the establishment has not checked thoroughly enough the collected documentation on the wood variety used, the carring. State buildings have regretted this to the Ministry. On the basis of this specific event, State Building is working on introducing new and improved procedures to ensure the environmentally sound design of all State Buildings. The environmental management system shall ensure that employees in Statsbyggen follow the same environmental principles. It has been made clear to the employees of State Building that rainforest materials are not to be used in the building of the establishment and that this provision is to be followed up immediately in all on-going projects. Therefore, the use of rainforest timber, as in the case of the University of Tromsø, shall not be repeated. As part of the work on ensuring the proper import and use of construction materials, I attach great importance to the intensified procedures of State Building. It will contribute to preventing the use of non-sustainable building materials for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e747	I'm happy with the answer, and I'm glad there's going to be an intrusion. I must say that I was quite surprised when I read News from the Rain Forest Fund, where State Building itself comments on this matter. The person in charge of Stadsbåg, Kjell Jensen, says to this magazine: ‘The car could have been from Skåne for everything we knew.’ This seems to indicate an attitude that would suggest that you had not exactly the longest in the forehead brush that you should avoid that type of timber. Is the Council of State now certain that State buildings will not in the future make such bleaches as the use of timber – which is very likely to be illegal hogd – from a threatened rainforest area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e761	I am satisfied with the answers I have received from Stadsbyg. I am sure that in the future we will avoid similar examples of the use of non-sustainable materials, and I am satisfied with the quality assurance process State Building is now offering.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e766	This is not the first time you have seen that you have used rainforest timber when it should not have been done. Has the Council considered doing what the Rain Forest Fund requires in this particular case, simply to tear up the floor, in order to make it visible to all the world that we cannot accept this, in order to set an example, so that you are absolutely sure that it does not happen again?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e771	I have assessed it since the case. However, I am more concerned with ensuring quality control and environmental control for the future than with performing symbol policies, as would be the case in this case. It will not be appropriate socio-economic to tear down a floor that has already been laid, and there is no environmental impact to do so. I have concluded that now is the most important thing to ensure that we do not experience similar examples in the future, and I am confident about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e776	We go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e782	‘According to the 2003 Health Supervision Communication from the State Health Authority, a new country-wide survey carried out by IECs in 2003 shows that the number of Corridor Asians is on the increase again. Especially at St. Olav's Hospital HF and the University Hospital in North Norway HF, there is a significant increase compared to 1999 when the figures were decreasing. What does the Council of State consider to be the cause of the increase in Corridor Asians in these undertakings, and what measures are necessary to stop this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e789	I agree with the honorary head of the Social Committee that the last measurement by the Health Inspectorate of Corridor Asians in health businesses is a cause for concern. It's unworthy to offer sick people space in a corridor. The removal of corridor beds has been a key element of the governance message of regional health enterprises. I have therefore also asked for a statement from the health care companies about the situation. The Health Inspectorate measurement is a point-to-point measurement carried out in in-house medical departments at 27 health establishments and three private hospitals in a given week, week 38, in 2003. Corresponding measurements were carried out in 2002 and 1999. The weakness of point measurements is that the time at which the measurement is made is not necessarily representative of the situation throughout the year. The number of corridors is also one of the quality indicators measured by the Directorate for Social and Health. The data here is the total number of Corridor Asians in hospitals every day. 7 o'clock in the morning. In the Joint Data Report 4/03, Sintef has processed the figures from the measurements of the Health Authority in 1999 and 2003, and the figures from the measurements carried out by the Social and Health Directorate in the second and third quarters of 2003. It is gratifying that the review of SINTEF shows a clear trend, with a decrease in the number of corridors for the country as a whole. Especially happy is the fact that the greatest reduction has been in Health Mid-Norway, where Corridor Asians have been a major problem for a long time. When you go into the individual figures and the reporting by individual enterprises, there is also a positive trend for many individual hospitals. At St. Olavs Hospital, the quality indicator for Corridor Asians, as measured by the Directorate, shows an average of 33 corridor Asiates between October and December 2003. St. Olav's Hospital reporting from January this year also shows an average of 33 patients. There is a reduction from 76 patients in January 2002. It is reported from St. Olav's Hospital that in the one week when the Health Authority carried out its measurement, construction work at the hospital was just going on to solve the corridor problem, and that therefore there was a reduced bed capacity. St. Olavs Hospital also reports that they have worked systematically to overcome the unworthy situation. Through a cooperation agreement with the municipality of Trondheim, several intermediate posts have been established, a new geriatric post has been established in the old administrative building, and concrete measures have been taken to reduce internal waiting time. The hospital reports that they will now add to an even stronger control of where the ready-to-print patients will be located, so that the total bed capacity is used as best as possible. Let me make it clear that any patient offered room in the corridor is one patient too much. I will therefore also continue to pursue this matter with the healthcare companies until we are where we are: to have removed the problem. In this context, it is positive that the hospital that may have appeared to be a kind of ‘hosting’ in this field now appears to have taken a systematic approach to the problem. I am also pleased that health companies have actively addressed the problems and worked with them according to the steering signals given. I have expectations that the measures now being taken at national level will produce results.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e807	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It has been a priority task for the department and the Stortinget to reduce the number of Corridor Asians in our hospitals, which are both unworthy and unprofessionally unsatisfactory. As I see it, there may be two important reasons why the number of corridors once again increases. Firstly, so-called ready-to- print patients from hospitals are so poor that they need intensive follow-up after printing. Many municipalities do not have professional competence, so that patients are left in hospitals for the sake of medical care, and they also pay for bribes. Another reason, which might be the most important one, as I see it, is the lack of somatic health care facilities in a lot of municipalities. Only a small minority of one third of our nursing homes are equipped with permanent staff so that you can take care of the seriously ill and caring. Could it be a thought that the state of health companies and municipalities was asked about setting up a half-way service for the sickest patients over a period of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e818	I want to answer Alvheim's question directly and say, "Yes, that's an idea, and it's part of the mission of the Wisløff Committee to find out how to achieve more systematic cooperation between the first- and second-line services." It may include the construction of observation units, transit departments, hospitals and hospice departments, which together can help to eliminate the problem of Corridor Asians completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e823	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. I am aware that the Department is working with a simplified and fairer adaptation in terms of financing the components of the various care services in the municipalities. In that context, I think it would make sense for a person to come up with a system where the money followed the patients. This could lead to private stakeholders setting up and running public care institutions and free choice of home care for the elderly. I think this would also help with the capacity for care and care in the municipalities, which in turn would contribute to a significant reduction in the corridor patients. Does the Minister of Health have any sense in this process of thinking?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e832	The fact that as a health minister, I have been in charge of free hospital choice combined with input-driven funding in the hospital sector should give an answer to the question of whether I have a sense of the way I think about it. The question is based on the constitutional responsibility of another Council of State, so I must refer to the Minister of Social Affairs for answers to the review of the financial arrangements and the self-payment arrangements in the care sector to which the representative Alvheim here refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e843	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «Recently, we have received very alarming information that serious pollution has been detected in Mjösa. Public authorities have warned women of childbearing age and children against eating trout from Mjösa. Many thousands of people also have Mjösa as a drinking water source and are now worried about the quality of drinking water and whether it can be dangerous to drink it. If it also turns out that water quality is not good enough, this is very serious. What will the Council of State do to determine whether the water in Mjösa can be safely drunk?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e852	Due to large inputs of nutrients from agriculture and municipal waste treatment plants, a comprehensive action was taken more than 20 years ago to improve the water quality of Mjøsa itself. After this action, both professionals and locals regarded the lake as low-polluted. However, it has been shown in recent years that fish may contain different pollutants. These are substances that you did not previously have the same focus on or knowledge of as we do today. In 1996, a nationwide, general dietary board from the then State Food Authority on the findings of mercury in fish meat from perch and pike was provided. From 1999 onwards, these dietary councils were extended to include trout and trout. The State Food Authority provided a new dietary board specifically for Mjøsa based on PCBs and dioxins found in the lake in the summer of 2001. Then people were advised to eat liver from the lake fished in Furnesfjorden and from the main pool in Mjösa. Due to the high levels of PCBs in large trout from Mjösa and Vorma, the newly established Food Safety Authority has recently advised women of fertile age and children from eating large trout from Mjösa and Vorma on a regular basis. However, the ear less than 1 kg, small perch and all campfires are safe to eat. The pollutants that have been mentioned in this context are substances that are poorly water-soluble. They are primarily connected to particles that sediment at the bottom or are absorbed by plankton in water. Plankton is eaten by fish on its side. In this way, the various pollutants accumulate up the food chain. Measurements of environmental pollutants in water show that the water itself contains very low concentrations. In many cases they are not at all registerable. Based on current knowledge, there is no reason, in the opinion of the Food Safety Authority, to worry about absorbing such substances by drinking water from waterworks that have Mjøsa as their source. However, some waterworks around Mjøsa may need to improve their water treatment facilities. In that case, it is not justified by the findings of environmental pollutants in the water but rather by the need to deliver clearer water and to prevent bacteria from entering the mains during periods. However, the Ministry of Health will ask the Food Safety Authority to follow the matter further and submit any new findings and studies to the new Scientific Committee on Food Safety appointed these days, so that both the authorities and the population of the Mjøs region can be kept up-to-date on the basis of current knowledge of the risks. The Ministry of Health will also ask the Food Safety Authority to have good contact with the pollution authorities at local and central level, such as: the nature of the health concerns addressed by the representative Brustad on his question are safeguarded.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e871	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am glad that the Council of State can to some extent reassure the people around Mjösa that drinking water, at least as far as one knows now, does not seem to have large concentrations of pollutants. But I understand that people are concerned when they are warned against and simply not advised to eat fish over a certain size. That's why I think maybe it should be done even more. I think it is positive that the Food Safety Authority now, in cooperation with the State pollution authorities, should look at this, but I think one should do even more to investigate and ensure the quality of the drinking water and to stop the pollution in Mjösa. I think it's important now that someone investigates this. What really happened here? What can be done to clean up? I also think it is very important that you continue to have a strong monitoring of what is now happening in Mjösa – something beyond what the Minister of Health here is calling for. My follow-up question will be: Will the Council take further initiatives to ensure that the people around Mjøsa are safe both on the water and on the fish?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e880	Part of the question now raised by the representative Brustad addresses the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment. I'll notice what the representative Brustad says, and pass it on to the Minister for the Environment. As regards responsibility for water and water quality, I would like to stress what the Food Safety Authority has told me, that according to today's knowledge there is no reason to worry about getting these substances by drinking water from waterworks that have Mjøsa as their source. At the same time, it is important that a continuous monitoring of the situation and that, in line with the new food law, one has an active and offensive information activity for the population. I think it's one of the most important things you can do to create security and a basis for security.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e889	I am pleased with the Council's response, that progress will be closely followed. As I read the Council of State, it also means that he is willing to spend some more money both on monitoring and on implementing measures that may be necessary. I also agree with the Council of State that it is important that information comes out, and that one is willing to spend money on it too, so that people know what they have to deal with, and that there are no unclear signals, as we saw in a period of time from the Food Authority when it was, for example. the question of eating the fish. It's now cleaned up, fortunately. It is important that the correct information is provided. So if the Council of State can confirm that monitoring and action will increase and not decrease, I am satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e898	The budgetary aspects of this I don't think I'm going to go into here and now. But there is a clear expectation from me, and it will be expressed to the Food Authority, that we will follow this matter closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e906	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The Councils of State have warned of the strengthening of the drug field. Many drug users and dependants experience that the transfer of responsibility to healthcare professionals allows for the need for treatment and therefore also lack of aftercare. Will the Council of State take action to increase the availability of the necessary treatment and follow-up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e915	Odelstinget adopted on 11 November 2003 Rusreform II. By the fact that the Stortinget adopted Rusreform I as early as last January, the decision in November led to the transfer of responsibility for all county municipal measures for drug addicts to the regional health establishments from 1 January this year. As a result of the state taking over all this responsibility, we now refer to Rusreform I and Rusreform II as the Rusreform. The main objective of this reform is to ensure that drug users have better access to the necessary healthcare, to provide a qualitatively good treatment provision and to achieve better treatment outcomes. In the early stages of the reform, it has naturally been focused on practical aspects, such as the incorporation of the public-owned enterprises into the corporate structure, the entry into agreements with private institutions, the assumption of employers' responsibilities for municipal employees, etc. To this extent, enterprises have taken good care of these issues and the basis has now been laid for enterprises to assume their new responsibilities for multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts. Almost three months of responsibility in this area is too short to allow us to have a clear view of how this works. The transfer of responsibility for the treatment of drug users at the Rusreform to the State means that multidisciplinary specialised treatment is now linked to the other specialist healthcare services. As a result, four out of five health regions have linked the apparatus to mental health protection. The Russ reform shall be evaluated and the results of the evaluation shall be submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner. Many of the fundamental and important issues such as: These include the right of drug users to treatment and will require further investigation as part of such an overall evaluation. The important thing now is to ensure that regional health businesses are able to discharge their new responsibilities properly. Health business governance documents stress that the provision of treatment to drug users should be improved, while at the same time strengthening the interaction between municipal health and social services and enterprises in order to ensure a comprehensive approach. In addition to the Rusreform, the Government in 2004 strengthened the response apparatus for drug users in other areas as well. I would like to mention, in particular, increased efforts on low-threshold health measures, increased appropriations for medically assisted rehabilitation and increased resources for work-related measures and for local follow-up measures for persons in medically assisted rehabilitation. We announced in the budget statement that medically assisted rehabilitation will be evaluated, and that evaluation will be presented in November. This is an overall review that, among other things, will give us more knowledge of how the local follow-up works. The multi-year effort on the measures I have mentioned here has probably helped to halve the number of overdose deaths in the last two years. It is hoped that the work we are now doing in relation to drug addicts will further reduce the number of overdose deaths.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e930	In the russ field, it's about saving lives. It's about allowing people to pause from their drug abuse. It's about a new course. Lack of treatment is important, not least in collective and small institutions that have had the opportunity to follow up people over a long period of time, showing good results. Now the alarming messages come from people who have been treated for a period and who do not have the opportunity to go back where they were before, because it is in the wrong region. One also reports on missing priorities and missing resources from health services. Can I understand the Minister of Health so that all these are relationships that he is going to follow more closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e937	The short answer to the representative Meltveit Kleppa's question is yes. I can confirm that we will follow closely. The reform involves new tasks, new framework conditions and new legislation. It'll necessarily take some time before it does. However, although drug users do not have a free choice of hospitals when it comes to non-hospital institutions, it is my opinion – I have expressed that to health companies – that one should have a free choice of institutions, even if it does not follow the law. I said this in relation to the question of belonging to the wrong region, which the representative Meltveit Kleppa was in. We're also going to clarify some things to the municipalities about what the changes in the Special Health Service Act and the patient rights entail as a result of Storting's decision in connection with the Rusreform. In addition, we are working on a regulation on the reference to multidisciplinary specialised treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e946	I think it is good that the Council of State is so clear in relation to institutional choices. It's a good signal to those who need follow-up and further treatment in institutions they've been in for before. There is also a good signal to some institutions that are uncertain today about retaining valuable skills, because they do not fully know where they are going in a treatment chain. When it comes to municipalities, it is clear that they play a key role. Is it, then, that the Minister of Health will also stress the need for local authorities to provide funds for this important task? Unfortunately, today it is one of the fields in which many municipalities have been forced to cut into valuable competences and in positions and people who have been involved in post-protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e953	I find it regrettable if the municipalities cut in the offer to the very weakest. That's the wrong priority in my opinion. There's no basis in the Rus reform to do that. The responsibility of municipalities for drug users has not changed as a result of the Rusreform. It is the county responsibility that has been transferred to the state. The municipalities have their responsibility in mind. It is not the case that funds previously held by municipalities for their own responsibility for drug users have been deducted from the municipal economy. Only payments have been made for municipal institutions that have been deducted from the municipal resource bases. Then the representative Meltveit Kleppa and I can discuss local economy on a general basis. We're probably going to do that. However, I would like to stress the responsibility of the municipalities which have not been rocked in the context of the reform. I might particularly stress the responsibility of municipalities to ensure that drug users receive individual plans as a coordinating tool for what they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e964	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘As of 1 January 2004, the National Agency for Social Security has concluded all simplified settlement agreements for occupational and war pensioners. This means that many sick and elderly people have to pay all the medicines in the pharmacy to contact their local social security office to get their money back. This is a very heavy and bureaucratic system, such as: will put some minor intermediaries in a difficult economic situation. Will the Council of State ensure that this change is reversed to the best of their interests?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e973	Occupational injury is now fully covered by the expenditure of medicinal products under the special rule on occupational injury in the Swedish Social Security Act § 5-25. War pensioners have a higher level of expenditure than under the Law on Social Security Chapter 5, as they have to have full expenditure coverage with individual exceptions. Occupational injuries and war pensioners do not pay full prices of medicines on blue prescription today when they are supplied in the pharmacy, as the wording of the question from the representative Nesvik can be seen as. However, they must pay the excess prescribed for such medicinal products when they are supplied to them in the pharmacy. That amount – or proportion – can be recovered later by going to the social security office. The Swedish Social Security Agency has informed me that the social security offices have previously practised the system of settlement for the excess interests of these groups differently. In some municipalities, there has been a practice between pharmacies and the social security office, which meant that some patients in these groups have not paid any part of the pharmacy. In other municipalities, the social security office has demanded that patients pay the allowance and then get the social security allowance back at the social security office. From 1 January 2004, an agreement has been concluded between the pharmacies and the social security system for an electronic blue recipe settlement system. The Swedish Social Security Agency has informed me that this agreement on direct settlement between the social security centre and the pharmacies does not regulate the settlement to the pharmacies for the costs of self-proprietary expenditure under the Swedish Social Security Act § 5-25, nor does there exist any agreement between the social security office and the pharmacies for direct settlement of claims. This means that there is a similar practice across the country and that, as of 1 January 2004, occupational injuries and pensioners normally pay the pharmacies and then they are refunded to the social security office. The Rikstrøgdeverket has carried out an assessment of whether the introduction of this electronic settlement mechanism has resulted in increased burden on these two patient groups. In this assessment, the Rikstrøgdeverket has concluded that the new arrangement does not provide for direct settlement of the excess interests of these two groups. This is explained by the Riksstrøgdeverket that reimbursement of the excess of military pensioners and occupational injuries is not part of the direct settlement agreement. Consequently, this new scheme imposes a similar practice on all pharmacies in the country. Furthermore, the Swedish Social Security Agency has informed me that the social security office will assess the causal link between the occupational injury/war damage and the need for the individual medicinal product. It implies that the assessment by the social security office must be carried out before the possible coverage of the excesses by these two groups is allowed. This is a new scheme to facilitate, in general, the management of the extensive financial settlement between pharmacies and social security agencies for expenditure on medicines on blue prescription. The scheme has obviously had a negative impact on groups that are not required to pay an excess for their medicinal products. I would therefore like to ask the Swedish Government to assess whether a practical solution can be found to this issue when looking at the experience with this new settlement mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e988	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I am pleased that the Minister of Health has contacted the Swedish National Agency to see how this has turned out. I think we all support the idea that it should be as simple as possible, and the electronic settlement system that is now being developed should be a simplification for, among other things. The government agency and the pharmacy. The same practice now makes it more difficult for all parties to do so. I have to ask the Minister of Health if the Swedish National Agency has signaled how quickly you want to look at this matter, because here there are actually a number of people who experience this very difficult. Not least, it must be much more bureaucratic that the person should first spend, and then you should go to the social security fund to get the money back, and that time will be done every time. I hope the Minister for Health can give an answer to that: How quickly can you expect an answer in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e997	I do not want to answer for how quickly the Swedish Government will follow up my enquiry, for which I am asking for understanding. But my enquiry is going to go immediately after this questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1002	Thank you for that. And then we're all going to cross our fingers because it's going a little bit fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1007	Would the Council of State like to close the Højbråten?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1010	There was no additional question that required any additional response.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1019	I would like to ask the following questions: ‘Health Fonna has decided that the maternity ward of Stord Sjukehus should be closed in the summer and the birthers sent to Haugesund. Pregnant women in Sunnhordland have protested strongly against the closure. Health Fonna expects to save 570,000 kroner to keep it closed. The chairmanship of the Stord municipality has decided to grant money itself to keep the department open, despite the local government's efforts to finance it. Does the Council of State consider it acceptable that the offer to women who are born becomes dependent on gifts from a poor municipality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1028	Let me first say that regional health enterprises have a comprehensive responsibility for organising and providing the best possible specialist health services in the budget frameworks adopted by the Stortinget. Taking into account the needs of the population and the budgetary framework available, health enterprises shall organise the service provision and make the necessary economic priorities to ensure that the requirements of professional quality and soundness, equality, accessibility and efficient use of resources are met in the best possible way. The responsibilities of health enterprises include the organisation of the part of maternity care that is part of the responsibility of the specialist health services, including the operation of food establishments. The size has given the municipalities a corresponding responsibility to organise and operate the part of maternity care to be provided by the primary health service. Therefore, it is important to establish good cooperation and communication between the primary health service and the specialist health service in order to ensure optimal maternity care. However, this does not mean that the municipal health service is to finance the part of maternity care for which regional health establishments are responsible. In the February 25 issue this year, I mentioned issues related to the receipt of gifts for individual purposes in the specialist health service. I'm going to repeat some of what I said. The overall responsibility of regional health businesses also involves responsibility for priorities and balances. Therefore, a commitment related to any contributions and gifts is particularly problematic. For example, if the receipt of gifts creates ties with the contributor, or leads to changes in priorities and decisions on organisation and location, it is very unfortunate. Accordingly, health establishments should also not receive gifts with such bonds or guides. I therefore assume that health care providers show sufficient caution by assessing the level of soundness and desirability of receiving financial support from non-governmental organisations, i.e. through the ordinary funding system. Large Presidency granted at the meeting on 11 March in the year 570,000 kroner to ensure the operation of the food department at Stord Sjukehus in the summer of 2004. Gifts of this type from the municipality should in principle not be received. At the same time, I would like to stress the need to facilitate and ensure good communication processes with municipalities and users, especially in cases where changes in the service provision can lead to insecurity among the population. I have put a special search light on this. I am informed that this is being followed up both in the Health West and in Health Fonna, which in 2004 has focused on improving the information and communication strategy with different actors. Based on the performance of the Grand Presidency, the board of Health Fonna has dealt with this matter and determined that the closure of the maternity ward at Stord Sjukehus this summer is based on professional safety, but at the same time decided to accept the gift from Stord Municipality to keep the department open. However, the case will have a fundamental and final decision in the Health West. I am confident that Health Vest will deal with this matter in line with the principles of receiving gifts that I have shown here, and that a professionally sound supply of food will be ensured based on Stord Sjukehus in a way that can be reliable in relation to the population even during the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1043	It was a basically clear response from the Minister of Health, for which I thank you. Nevertheless, the Minister of Health rightly points out that the board of Health Fonna has initially agreed to accept the money. I want to quote from the Sunnhordland newspaper yesterday. One of the members of the board of directors of the meeting shall have said, ‘Is the public health system so poor that it must have almises?’ and then voted yes to the alms afterwards. I think that the Stord politicians have made a courageous decision, because they have taken seriously the fear that many in the municipality feel about the summer closure. I also want to challenge the Minister of Health to take a clearer responsibility. If the principle position is so clear in relation to the question of receiving gifts, one should also have a position of principle as to what kind of responsibility Health Fonna has to make available to those who are to be born in July the same opportunities and offers as to those who are to be born in January. It must also be problematic for the Minister of Health that you have this kind of summer closure of an offer that you have to expect that there are professional assessments on the basis of which we have the rest of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1052	Both the party representing Bjørlo Lysbakken and the Minister of Health have agreed to open the board meetings to the public, and that kind of statement is part of the blessings that come with open board meetings. What I want to say, however, is that I have answered in principle both questions about gifts and questions about the responsibilities of healthcare companies in providing sound health care and proper maternity care. I've let myself know that Health West will make a fundamental and final decision on this issue, i.e. that the decision taken by the Board of Health Fonna will not remain as the final decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1059	If this is the signal given by the Minister of Health, I find it disappointing that he will not at the same time give a clearer signal in relation to the responsibility for the offer. For there must be a basis for questioning the professional assessments when, suddenly, what is an important offer in January is not considered to be so in July. It's also hard for people to understand when they're talking about such a small sum as NOK 570,000, which is put in a strange perspective if you like. compares with the gold-plated wage and pension agreements of the directors of Health West. It is a logic that is difficult to understand, that there should be a difference between the summer and winter offer, when it has been considered both professionally desirable and prudent to have it in January. It is a logic the Health Minister cannot be satisfied with. I would like the Minister of Health to send a clear signal to Health West and Health Fonna that the offer must be similar regardless of when women in Sunnhordland are born in the year and that funding is the responsibility of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1064	By going closer to my first answer in the seams, the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken will find the principal signals in terms of both the requirements of professional soundness and the requirements for the availability of the offer that the regional health company is responsible for ensuring that it is. I am confident that Health West will handle this, so that both follow up on the principal leadership given in receiving gifts, and ensure a proper supply of food for the people concerned, throughout the summer. But it is actually the responsibility of the health business to do so according to the law, and it will go wrong if such decisions are to be dictated by question-time responses in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1072	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘Eastfold is particularly vulnerable to cross-border crime. EU enlargement on 1 May, with 10 new Member States, will present new challenges to the police and customs system because it will lead to freer movement of criminals. What is planned by the Ministry to meet a situation of increased crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1081	Although there are so far no concrete indications of changes in the crime scene as a result of the forthcoming EU enlargement, the police and customs are following developments continuously — both here in the country and through European cooperation. In this context, let me mention that the external border controls between the new Member States and the existing Member States as well as Iceland and Norway will not be phased out until early 2007. The EEA Agreement will make it easier than it used to be for nationals of the new Member States to seek employment in Norway legally. This is also how we can reduce the amount of ‘black work’ in us, with the result assumed decline in crime. The control activity in the border areas is based on ongoing local and national threat assessments. The Directorate of Police notes that the importance of information-driven control activities in border areas has been given increased focus in communication with police districts. Moreover, effective use of control capacity, according to the Police Directorate, requires close operational cooperation across police district borders. In this picture, the law enforcement department is also an important partner. At the same time, cooperation with Swedish police and customs authorities is improved. Individual police districts have been given independent responsibility for implementing the necessary measures to combat organised cross-border crime. The operation will be followed up by the Directorate of Police. At the request of the police officer in Eastfold, a working group will address the specific challenges related to the border problem in Eastfold. Finally, I would also like to stress that in June the Government will present a new action plan on economic crime. Here, measures will be promoted in relation to sectors where there is a lot of ‘black work’ experience in terms of punishment and tax evasion. The plan will therefore also be of importance in relation to the problem raised by the representative Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1098	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is such that many people in Eastfold are concerned about the development of cross-border crime. The local media in particular are concerned about it, it's almost not a week when there's no lookup on this topic. There have been many isolated cases where Baltic leagues have been heavily involved, and many have been apprehended. A large proportion of those seized are from former Eastern bloc countries. Cooperation between police districts on major actions has revealed the same thing. So you are now, even though the border control will be lifted later, very concerned about the development. I would like to ask the Council of State: if this proves necessary, will he re-priorities so that resources can be deployed to combat cross-border crime more effectively?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1107	The representative Hedstrøm and I share the description of the relationship that is going on, also the way it is described, and who might be involved. The representative and I have it in common that we know that the police in Eastfold have very good border competence. The fact that it is being maintained in the new police district is something I have experienced myself, and the representative is probably particularly well aware of it. I cannot draw any conclusions about an external border control that has not yet expired. But it goes without saying that we'll follow this. We see a relationship that can be measured not only in Eastfold, but also elsewhere, where we see that it is operated on with black work, for example. in the construction industry. We could then be thinking that we have measures outside the area of the police. It may be considered that sub-contracting groups should have the obligation that they are liable for tax purposes for all those whom they place in their bread through tenders and competition. Mobilising instruments other than the police will be done by the Government, and that is why I specifically referred to the action plan that will come in June. It is an important tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1114	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. I see it as an important task for me as an Eastfold representative to focus on these things, so that we have a readiness so that it does not come as the Christmas evening on the wretch if there may be an increasing cross-border crime. It must also be seen in the light of the fact that the Head of the Police Joint Union in Eastfold is out saying that there are reduced budgets. According to the main response of the Council of State, responsibility has been given to the individual police districts. We have to see that in the light of the appropriations that are given, and in this context, we can re-priorities if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1121	It is clear from my main response how the resources are disposed of. It is also clear from answers given to the local press how police officer Otto Stärk does his job: in a proper and proper way. The representative and I will have as our starting point that the police in Eastfold have a lot of competence. In parentheses, I get to say that one of the reasons why I, as a wholesaler, was not entirely satisfied with the current police reform, among other things. was the competence of the old Halden police district. But it is maintained in the new Eastfold police district. The Commissioner himself has defined it so that, in practice, as regards part of the district, the whole district. It means that borderline criminal activity is perceived as a matter for the police throughout the district. That is why the police officer himself has made a priority that is in agreement with what I think is right. If there were other matters, I would of course reserve the right to come back to it. That is why I have said that the police and customs authorities follow this closely. When I myself drew up the Action Plan against financial crime, it was because there are also other instruments outside the police activity that I believe are important to hit what the representative wants to hit, and which we have a common view of hitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1133	‘New research methods adopted using available technology have improved evidence in legal proceedings. The requirement for a qualitative and rapid procedure in the courts requires a more effective implementation of the legal proceedings. Time consumption per The case under consideration is increasing. The judges rarely impose fines on unethical lawyers, rarely cut off the list of irrelevant witnesses, do not impose strict enough requirements on the evidence, etc. What will the Council of State do to improve the effectiveness of judicial proceedings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1140	In recent years, several legislative changes have been adopted which have an impact on judicial proceedings in criminal matters. For example, Law of 28 June 2002 No. 55, which entered into force in substance on 1 October 2002, set deadlines for the negotiation of the main negotiations and for new deadlines for the main negotiations. Furthermore, the free choice of defense was narrowed somewhat, while the access to intercepting evidence was extended. In December 2003, I received a report from a working group that has looked at the case resolution in Oslo. The Group proposes a number of changes, both legislative and practical. The proposals concerning the modification of practices and procedures, which can be resolved in the current legislation, will largely be up to the interested parties, including the courts, to resolve themselves. It has also been decided that the working group will continue its work for one more year, including: to coordinate and follow the proposals that do not require legislative changes. The legislative proposals must be dealt with in the ministry in the usual way, i.e.: that the ministry will assess them and, where appropriate, send them to the hearing and follow them up in the light of the hearing opinions. However, changes in rules do not solve everything. As far as time use in court is concerned, in my opinion, it will often be a matter of good procedural management, good interaction between the actors and understanding the role of the individual. There will be a difficult balance here between the requirement for an effective resolution of the case and a process of adequate care of the actors in a difficult situation. That further improvement in the effectiveness of the courts does not necessarily require further legislative changes, is supported by a report that I was handed over as soon as a week ago from teamman Torolv Groseth and court judge Tor Langbach. These two judges have conducted a comparative study of the treatment of specific criminal cases in Sweden and Norway. The findings suggest that criminal cases are generally treated more quickly in Sweden than in Norway. As regards the courts, Langbach and Groseth claim that the court has the necessary legal basis to make matters more effective. However, they believe that much can be obtained from active process management and practically effective criminal proceedings. I would like to take this opportunity to make it clear that it is no longer the Ministry of Justice, but the administration of the Court of Justice that is responsible for the administration of the General Courts with the exception of the Conciliation Councils. Otherwise, I can inform you that this week I will invite the court administration, the state attorney, the police director and the Norwegian Bar Association to a meeting on how to speed up criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1155	Legal certainty must be indisputable. The question is whether Norwegian courts are overly mature for change. Society has undergone major changes, in particular in the light of technological innovations. In Norway, we have had neither tradition nor culture to have the rule of law of the Norwegian courts. In the drama, the so-called car bombing case is carried out these days. There is reason to ask if there is a need to summon 65 witnesses, especially when none of the witnesses have seen the perpetrator at the scene. Witnesses shall supply the matter with important elements and evidence, not obscure the facts. Lawyers set the agenda rather than the judges do. In certain media-profiled cases, the use of the number of witnesses, experts and unsuitable evidence is oversized in relation to the real need to prove guilt or innocence. The irrelevant input and evidence provided by the parties do not deceive judges’ backslidingness and discretion, but creates undue mischief in legal proceedings. Those least benefited by this new case-law are those intended. Legal certainty is scarcely restricted by imposing stricter requirements for more use of written documentation and fewer, but relevant, witnesses, as the Swedishs have done. Will the Council of State influence developments in such a direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1164	The Council of State has already done so, in the sense that I am responsible for the laws passed by the Storting in 2002. I am also responsible for the project that is being carried out in Oslo District Court, which has delivered excellent results, and has also produced practical results in addition to the proposals. I am also responsible for the assignment given to Langbach and Groseth. I am also responsible for the resulting initiative. Let me briefly describe that. I think the judges can always get better at trial management. I think the police can check to see if you're over-exploring matters. I think the prosecution authority can do a job of meeting temptations, and I think the lawyers always have to consider, if it goes a long time, if you're not going to give the assignment to someone else, and if you don't, for example. in cases where applicable, the client shall draw attention to the right to a licence discount in relation to the treatment of interrogations. So to discuss all this that concerns all the actors in the criminal case chain, I have called in to the meeting that I mentioned in my main response.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1171	I thank you for your answer. The legal certainty of the individual accused is strengthened by the high level of law and expertise of the judges. The criminal proceedings themselves do not impose any specific requirements on the specific professional competence of the individual judge in most types of cases. Both the actorate and the defense lawyers have specialized within certain niches. Today, there are own courts, for example: dealing with arbitration, legal mediation and patent law. Should not other areas such as de facto require specific knowledge, also few specialised judges, such as labour law, tax law, etc.? I am aware that Oslo District Court has a pilot project in connection with this. Does the Council not see the need not only for legal reform but, in fact, for a reform of competence also for Norwegian judges?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1178	First of all, for constitutional reasons, I would like to make it clear that the court administration that the Stortinget has decided to have, and that I agree with, now governs how the courts are going to evolve. I actually had a meeting last night with the court administration and the courts in Bergen where they just put on the agenda what you can call best practice, best culture, in terms of process management. What was in focus, and I was informed about, was just a situation where we get a more judicial process and a less party-driven process. My impression is that the administration of the Court of Justice is focusing on precisely strengthening competence for that purpose, because people, regardless of their profession and their condition, have different opportunities to do a job in this area. The main intention of the question that has been asked is that I feel the court administration has taken up, and with the information I received yesterday, my impression is that it is working on it. To make sure that all parties are present, not only the court administration, but also the prosecution authority, the police and the defenders, I have just taken the initiative to convene the meeting that I mentioned in my first reply to the representative Dybevig.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1186	I will allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: «A study of committed rapes in Sweden in the 1990s, carried out by Christian Dien at the University of Stockholm, shows that out of 100 reported rapes only five end in prosecution. The study concludes, inter alia, that the lack of money, knowledge and attitudes of the police are decisive for the imposition of sanctions. Does the Council of State think that this may also be some of the reasons for the detention of rape cases in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1195	Rape is an extreme physical and psychological expression of the oppression of women. In addition, a very serious criminal act has been raped, which must not only give high priority to the police and the judiciary, but also pay particular attention to the victim’s need for upliftment. As regards the situation in Norway, preliminary figures from the Strasak criminal record show that 673 rape reports were made in 2003. Of these, a total of 536 were hospitalized for various reasons. 137 cases ended with so-called positive prosecution decisions, including 77 with appeal decisions. Although these figures are preliminary and therefore uncertain, they are likely to give a general picture of the situation. The reasons for the high deposition rate may be more, but I have no points of view to claim that orders are related to prejudices or negative attitudes in the police. On the contrary, it seems to me that these matters are being dealt with in a consistent and thorough manner, and that there is a much greater awareness and competence in the police in this area today than in the early 1990s. In criminal matters, guilt must be proved beyond reasonable doubt. This strict requirement of proof makes it difficult in those cases to provide sufficient evidence of criminal liability in the courts. The prosecution authority then has an obligation to resolve the matter. As part of increasing the quality of the investigation and prosecution of rape cases, the Riksadvokat set up a committee in 1999 to investigate the handling of rape cases by the police and the prosecution authority. The group concluded that the investigation was comprehensively satisfactory but submitted several proposals for action. Following on from the report, the Advocate General developed a comprehensive Compendium on the investigation and prosecution of rape cases in 2001. Compendium is distributed to all police districts. Several measures have also been taken to increase the knowledge and competence of the police and prosecution authorities in this field. A number of police officers and women have completed training and follow-up training on sexual offences, so that most police districts today have specialised personnel that can be used. In larger and more complicated cases, it may be appropriate to seek the assistance of the Crime Police Centre. A very central issue to improve the investigation of rape cases is that insulted people have confidence that the police will provide rapid and qualitative investigation. It is also of great importance that she immediately report the infringement, so that the necessary evidence is ensured as best as possible. Further measures to strengthen the situation of victims of rape, both criminal and health-related, will be considered in the context of the presentation of the Action Plan on violence in close relations, which will take place in May/June.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1214	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am glad that the Council of State is taking so seriously what has to be said to be one of the worst ills a woman can be exposed to. But I believe that there is still a job to do. Because when we have as much as we still have, despite the fact that a number of measures have been taken, we send out an unfortunate signal in the Norwegian community. We send out a signal to the rapist that there is no risk of him being punished, and we send out a signal to all the women who go and are insecure that there is little and no legal certainty in this area. That is why I believe that you still have a job to do, and I could imagine that the Council of State could say a little more about what he wants to do to raise the risk of discovery in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1221	First, I want to say that one sheep has the humility to this type of case that they are demanding and difficult, and that each case is special. I know that through meetings with victims of rape. One of them has also written a book about their fate, which has been published in collaboration with the DIXI group. I believe that the progress made in terms of police and prosecution authorities is simply in ensuring the level of competence that has been emphasised and facilitated, among other things. in the police, and as I know, motivated police and political workers spend a lot of time, and so the State Attorney has taken the lead and the Police Directorate has distributed. What I think is important in addition to this, is to look at the rape victims' meeting with other aspects of social services, health services and other services. When I don't want to go into details right now, it's because we wanted to listen to the Women's Violence Committee, with the deadline of 8 March. We will come back and look at this in the context of the new summer action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1230	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I very much agree with him that this is really a complex issue, and that it is not least for the woman who is being subjected to action that is very important that both police and society act quickly and tidy in this area. What you mention is, among other things, the other aspects of society that should contribute. And especially in relation to the assistance needed by the police, it is important to get regional rape receptions, so that you have the opportunity to secure evidence, and that women have the opportunity to secure the evidence immediately. Another issue that has been raised recently is the need for an aid lawyer at an earlier stage, which can help the woman at an early stage in ensuring a good investigation. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether he wants to take initiatives for such new measures, both to put in place proper receptions of rape in each region and to assess the use of aid counsel.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1241	Before the Council of State responds, the President will draw attention to the fact that the prosecution is going to go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1244	I have noticed that the representative Gjul and other representatives from the Workers' Party have made proposals, and I only see that as positive. We will actively assess them when we look at the action plan. In this context, I would like to point out a measure that I think might be of interest. In the South-Trøndelag, a cooperation project has been launched between Trondheim Municipality, the South-Trøndelag Police District and the Ministry of Justice to ensure that the victim of crime – and in this context, victims of rape will hear – will be met in a very active way from the start, so that when the police have done what they are supposed to do, other parts of the public sector too should be in support. It is both about being treated properly, with normal courtesy and respect for the judiciary, and it is about a cooperation situation in relation to existing public services. This project, which I attach great importance to, and which I shall commend to the local promoters, because they are just trying to see the context I think the representative is rightly calling for, is an important measure for me. We're going to take lessons from that, but we're also going to take a lot of lessons from, among other things. The Committee on Women's Violence and the Opinions. We shall also listen to and evaluate the proposals put forward by the representative Gjul in the public space, in part in this Chamber and in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1257	I have the following questions: ‘Most primary and secondary school students in Norway are pupils in public owned schools. The quality of public schools is very different. Learning outcomes are essentially mediocre. Anxiety and bullying affect many places, both the school environment and the learning environment. How will the Government actively use supervisory and supervisory systems to improve the school environment and the learning environment at school in order to ensure better education quality and better learning outcomes for public school students?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1266	The Training Act with Regulations sets national targets to ensure a good and equivalent training provision for all. It is the municipalities and county councils as school owners who are responsible for the operation of the public school and therefore also responsible for the achievement of the objectives. Within certain frameworks, municipalities and county councils have the freedom to determine how the objectives can be achieved. This local area of action for school owners has increased in recent years. The size has joined the establishment of a national quality assessment system. The national quality assessment system shall contribute to the quality development of training and facilitate informed decisions at all levels of the training system. Quality assessments will primarily be a tool for individual teachers, schools and school owners in quality assessment and development. The Training Act specifies that the municipality/municipality is responsible for complying with the requirements of the Training Act, including the right of students to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. As part of the national quality assessment system, a selected-level survey will also be carried out in order to identify the learning environment at each school. This study has been named the Student Inspectors. It is the county officials who have been delegated the power to exercise supervision under the Training Act. The Training Act emphasises that the supervisory authority shall cooperate with the school owners ‘in order to ensure a good and equivalent provision of training in accordance with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions.’ If circumstances which are contrary to the law and to the regulations are discovered, the supervisory authority may require corrections to be made to the situation. This means that the supervisory authority has both a responsibility for guidance in advance and a subsequent verification. The national quality assessment system provides the basis for a more systematic monitoring of the school and learning environment. In the supervision of the school environment of students, which is designated as one of the supervisory areas of the county, they will, inter alia, give priority to the current year. be based on information from the quality assessment system. In addition, during the spring I will present a legislative proposal that clarifies the municipality's responsibility for establishing a system that ensures that the legislation is complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1279	I thank you for your answer. A week ago, through the NRK, there was a new focus on the crime at 40 p.m. by the private schools that had been supervised by the supervisory authority. The councils then stated that she would step up control of independent schools and provide more sanctions. But the point is that only 2-3 pst. by students go to private schools, so that supervisory efforts must be directed primarily at the schools where the main masses of students go, namely in the public schools owned. When widespread bullying and widespread unrest in learning environments has developed over many years and has led to the school’s going wrong, it is evident that supervisory systems and supervisory authorities need to take a significant part in taking responsibility for it. Will the new Directorate of Education’s supervisor receive more sanctions against public schools, and, where appropriate, which?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1291	Let me first say that I do not think control and supervision is an end in itself. The aim, whether in the case of health schools or public schools, must be to make progress towards an increasingly better learning environment and good learning outcomes for students. I think it's important in everything we do on the supervision side, too, that we have development as a general purpose. When I spoke about the colleges in the radio program the representative of Sortevik referred to, it was about an intensification that also includes the public school. As I mentioned at the end of my first answer, during the spring we put forward a bill that clarifies the responsibility of the municipalities to establish a system that ensures compliance. Similarly, there will be a parallel to the responsibility of the Board of Governors and of the Board of Directors. What we get in Norway now, the national quality assessment system, we think provides a much better basis for supervision than we have ever had. We are one of the last countries to receive such a national quality assessment system, which will provide the basis for overseeing both resources, the learning environment, the school environment and learning outcomes, and also in and of progress in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1303	Thank you. I absolutely agree with the Council of State that supervision is not an end in itself, but at the same time it is an important step to make sure that developments in the school do not go in the wrong direction. Unfortunately, it has gone in the wrong direction, despite the fact that we have had oversight for many years. As the Council of State is well-known, a comprehensive development process is taking place in many European countries related to supervisory work. One of the features of this process is transparency related to supervisory work, so that results and follow-up are made known to both parents and the public. How will the Council of State ensure that the results of supervision of each public school are better informed in relation to parents and that the overall supervisory outcome is better informed to the Grand Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1313	Everything doesn't go in the wrong direction in Norwegian school, but it's going in the wrong direction. We then received a study from NOVA that suggests that differences in learning outcomes due to social heritage have increased between 1992 and 2002. It's a knowledge that we now get because a scientist is interested in it. Had we had the national quality assessment system during this period, we could see how it developed along the way and perhaps intervened with measures earlier. Then I have to add that the supervisory authority is primarily supervising municipalities and not individual public schools. But I fully agree that what is happening should not be closed down within a system, but put into open debate, because citizen control is also important. It can also take place between choices, not only when you have choices. I believe in openness, knowledge and dialogue as important sources of improvement. Here I believe that the school port.no, which is launched in ours, and which contains information from the national quality assessment system – but of course to take privacy considerations – will provide a basis for such publicity about what should be open.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1333	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present. Then we can permit the Clemet Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1342	This question, from the representative of Inge Ryan to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1345	It's not exactly crowded in the hall when I'm going to ask questions, but we get to kiss, we're here. I have a question for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade that I understand is to be answered by the Minister for Transport: ‘I am constantly receiving enquiries from companies that complain that they are not allowed to sign up along the road. This applies in particular to travel businesses that are totally dependent on informing travellers that they have something to offer. The dissatisfaction is mainly directed at road offices and road directorates. The Council of State agrees that we have too strict practice with regard to the signage of tourism in Norway, and has the Council of State, if necessary. plans to do something to liberalise our signage practices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1356	The wish to set up signs for road traffic is very extensive. These requests concern, on the one hand, advertising signs and other forms of private signage, and, on the other, public traffic signs which may provide information on different offers and directions to them. In the case of advertising signs and other private signs, strong leadership has been given on restrictive practices, among others. by means of provisions of the Road Code and its preparations. The background is to avoid signs which may constitute a danger to road safety, in particular by over-reducing the attention of road users from road conditions or traffic situations on site. The public traffic signs, in this case service signs and road signs, shall provide the information necessary for safety and accessibility in particular. One objective of the public signs is that road users who are not known should be able to find their destination. The road authorities approve and set up a large number of signs for businesses and institutions each year, but the desire to sign up to different establishments is so numerous that strict priority needs to be given. In particular, taking into account road safety limits the level of information that can be directed at road junction users, however attention must also be paid to driving and traffic conditions. Proposals for new signs are now out of the ordinary consultation, with a deadline of 31 March this year. The letter of consultation proposes an extended use of symbols and ‘brown signage’ on tourist service signs. The Road Directorate is also working on revising the detailed provisions on the road signs. The travel industry is represented in the review and assessment of principles and practices for the use of service signs and road signs. There will still be a need for a relatively restrictive line on the main roads. It will always be possible to discuss where the boundary is to be drawn for the signage of enterprises and businesses. I believe that the road authorities should not be more restrictive than is necessary in the interests of road safety and that they are continually assessing practices in this area. I am also concerned that the proposals in the new sign regulation which is now being consulted should be able to provide an even better adapted offer to the needs of travel. As mentioned above, a restrictive line will still be necessary on the main roads, while practices on the other national road network should be considered to be more liberal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1371	I am pleased with the response from the Minister for Transport that new guidelines are now being assessed, and that the Minister for Transport here signals that she is prepared to make it possible to advertise more about what to offer along the way. I fully understand that, for example, in the cities have a restrictive view on this. When you look at all the advertising, whether it's for application or underwear – there may be large posters – it's clear that it can disturb the attention of anyone. But when we drive out into the countryside, there can be a lot of miles without seeing a single sign. If someone then has a good goat cheese to sell, or wants to offer an exciting set-up for farm tourism, it is important for us who are occupied by niche industries and by an Agriculture Pluss, and that it is to be converted, that those who depend on road traffic can get a little exciting sign that makes road users aware of this, so that you have the opportunity to earn some money that people can swing by and buy the products they want to advertise. I think the moose along the roads is a far, far bigger problem. It also moves, as opposed to the road signs that may have to come up. I am very pleased with the response from the Minister of Transport, and I feel that you have the view that you are actually willing to look at this quite carefully when you are going to adopt new regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1380	I see the need for the representative, Mr Ryan, to point out this, and I think we quite agree on that. We also agree that this jungle will have different dimensions in different parts of the country. It is not everywhere that we initially have a lot of signs, and it will vary the challenge for road safety to bring up such signs. I believe that the road authorities now look at it both in principle and flexibly in relation to what can be done. I think everyone's earned that the travelers find the way they're looking for, it be to businesses of the kind mentioned here, or to places for that cause. So I put my great trust that this process will lead us to a solution that is both roadworthy and so that we find out here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1385	I just want to finish by saying to the Council of State: thank you for a very good answer. I look forward to the new signage practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1411	These questions have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1417	‘The Minister for the Protection of the Environment has in his time as the Council of State raised a number of issues in which landowners feel overrun and deprived of their right to dispose of their own property. In many of the cases, no reasonable compensation is offered. Typical examples of this can be found, for example: for the establishment of national parks, for the protection of the coniferous forests and for the management of wild game. Does the Council of State consider private ownership to be of secondary importance and, in many cases, is it a better management of the land than private owners?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1424	Private ownership is a fundamental value of democracy and the rule of law. Private ownership is also an important prerequisite for sound resource management, because we take better care of values that we own than values that we have no responsibility for. It is the burden of proof on the public authorities if private ownership is to be interfered with. And when such an intervention is made, fair compensation or compensation shall be provided for losses caused by the intervention. These are four principles that are fundamental to the Cooperation Government, and to me as Right-wing and Minister for Environmental Protection. There are also some restrictions on ownership in democracy and the rule of law, because there are some social interests that are regarded as equally important as the right to free disposal of own property. We have to apply for permission from the municipality before we bring up building on our own property. The Neighborhood Act limits our right to make noise or to dispose of our own property. Property rights do not confer the right to violate other laws, even if we do so on our own property. And laws like the Law of Nature and Cultural Memory say that we have no right to harm unique natural qualities and cultural memories or eradicate endangered plant and animal species – even if we do so on our own property. Over the centuries, private ownership of our land has been of great importance to the preservation of natural values. As long as the land supply was high, the threat to nature was also small. A hundred years ago, half of Norway's area was uninterventional. Now we have 12 pst. wild field again – in South Norway only 5 pst. wilderness. At the same time, the pressure on the remaining non-interventional areas continues to increase. Politicians today have a responsibility to define which natural values will be intact for future generations. Taking care of selected natural areas is not about laying nature fallow, it's about letting our descendants also get a degree of freedom of choice. It is difficult to reverse the development or loss of plant and animal species. There are errors that the questioner claims, that I have promoted many cases without taking into account the question of compensation for limitations in the right of access. Where public authorities interfere with ownership, losses caused by the intervention shall be replaced or compensated in accordance with the Constitution. It was the Willoch government that in its time strengthened the protection of damages and allowed the establishment of nature reserves to trigger compensation as for expropriation – even when ownership is still private. Otherwise, compensation is granted in accordance with the general principles of law, i.e.: for documented financial losses. For the loss of grazing animals and domestic animals due to predatory game, full compensation is provided. I have also asked the Biomultiplicity Commission to look into today's compensation rules in order to assess whether they are fair enough as a basis for assessing whether they should be changed. I have also given a general postponement of the deadline to claim compensation until this issue is resolved. In the Norwegian forest there is 1 pst. which is protected, while a sustainable maximum can be operated in 99 pst. of the forest, in line with the industry’s own environmental requirements. In the debate on forest protection, you can get the impression that the ratio is the opposite – so it is not. At the same time, the forest owners' organisations and I have jointly achieved the breakthrough that we are now also betting on voluntary protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1441	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Let's do a little more concrete work. In examining the government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, the majority wanted a stronger emphasis on the voluntary nature of the forests. It was agreed that voluntary agreements between the country and the forest owners concerned should as far as possible implement new protected areas. The majority also said that greater emphasis should be placed on the active use of the country's own properties in the protection work. Several good opportunities have now been offered to follow this up in practice. A golden opportunity is in Buskerud. In this context, a private protection proposal has been put forward to protect 163 000 deer of the Silverworks forests instead of moving on with the disputed Trillemarka–Rollagsberg region. By choosing the country's own property, one can avoid intervening in the ownership and management of the business base of probably more than 100 landowners in the deprived districts. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to proceed with highly controversial congested forest protection issues affecting a large number of landowners when alternative areas of protection are available on their own land or areas offered on a voluntary basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1452	I noticed that the representative Haga did not take up the premise in his first question that there was no proper compensation for those who were covered by coniferous protection. This has been the case since the Willoch administration adopted this with a nature reserve, that you are covered by a coniferous forest protection, you get the area compensated as if it had been expropriated. Nevertheless, you are the homeowner of the area and can operate the field, renting out, fishing and hunting. Then there's a discussion about choosing a volunteer for coniferous protection. As I also said in my answer, is 99 pst. of the Norwegian forest not covered by formal protection. That's where we're after our neighboring countries. The forest industry itself says that this needs to be protected, because there are many red-listed species in the forest. But instead of going through the heavy road on the nature protection law on temporary protection, I have agreed with the Norwegian Forestry Association – and it has been a breakthrough – that we should now try the voluntary protection process. And they've come up with a lot of good areas, which the government prioritizes. But before this, there was a process involving Trillemarka-Rollag, which we will complete, and we will also assess the protection values in this area. In the case of the Forests of the Silverworks in Buskerud, which the representative took up, owned by the public, the Directorate for Nature Management has gone through that area and said that it does not have protective values of such a nature that it is natural to initiate a protection process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1461	Let's go on to the question of compensation. Livestock farming and grazing are the main direct problems of growing predators, but also the opportunities to exploit the land in other ways are being reduced. It is a serious defect in the report that it addresses the need for compensation to such a small extent. This message rejects the fact that a theme is used to replace the lost bytes. The government assumes that the hunting of licences and the hunting of quotas on predatory game will compensate to some extent for reduced hunting opportunities on other game, but rejects the need for some compensation. Increased fertilisation populations may force landowners to stop using their grazing rights. We also know that the particular presence of wolves is hard on the stock of hunting game. Does the Council of State think it is right to pursue a policy where landowners are deprived of grazing rights and hunting opportunities without being compensated in any way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1470	With regard to the compensation schemes applicable to nature reserves, national parks, coniferous forests and wild game in general, it is exactly the same compensation legislation that now applies, as when Åslaug Haga was in government. So that's no change. However, processes have been initiated to see if it is possible to establish better replacement legislation for the benefit of those engaged in important outreach activities. It's worth noting first. This applies to losses related to wild game and buffoon in the field. Full compensation is provided for the loss of bumps in the field, even in the case of undocumented losses. Only 10 pst. The losses can be documented, but we provide full compensation for losses of – 80–90 million. kr this year is this pot on. The Government has also proposed, in the report of robbers, the conversion of the compensation scheme in relation to predatory game damage, giving greater encouragement to those who take greater responsibility and take preventive action in relation to predatory game damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1477	Question 17 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-24.ana.ud946e1488	There is no record.
