ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e58	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e61	On behalf of Per Roar Bredvold, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Øyvind Korsberg, Thore A. Nistad, Henrik Rød, Lodve Solholm and myself, I would like to propose that forest owners who are exposed to expropriation or various forms of protection of forest property be awarded compensation at the same level as when selling forest properties under the concession law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e66	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e79	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 25 minutes, Right and Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e90	The store today deals with St.meld. No 15 on predatory game in Norwegian nature. The notification is a follow-up to the decision taken by the previous magnificence that a new stockpiling notification on wild game would be submitted by the end of 2003. The debate on Norwegian poaching policy engages and affects many. The case itself has many contradictions and conflicts of interest that may seem irreconcilable and incompatible. Conflicts are many and large in the relationship between protection interests, local communities, district industries and public administration. As a result, the overall aim of the policy must be to seek measures that can help to mitigate the level of conflict, as the Government also states in the Communication. In addition, we experience that there are ripples between the political parties and also within some parties. In sum, the lines of conflict are many, and loose threads have marked the debate of the Committee beginning its proceedings and almost to the finish line. This shows that predatory policy is a typical issue for compromises, where the will for majority solutions is a key word. In view of this, the Committee has spent more time than usual in its work on the notification. There have been trips, and there have been a number of meetings and seminars, as well as open hearings. In this way, the Committee has provided a good overview of the problems and challenges associated with predatory game and the management of predatory game. It is my opinion that all those who are somehow in contact with predators in their neighbourhoods, or who for various reasons have an interest in the matter itself, have been addressed. However, coming to an order does not necessarily mean that all one’s primary wishes are reflected in the conclusions of the Storting. However, it shows that many views have been met by the majority. Some of these I would like to explain in my article. The majority state that Norway has a separate responsibility for maintaining its own family groups of the four major predatory species of wolf, bear, gaupe and yerv. The question has therefore not been whether we should have predators, but how many we should have, where they should have their habitats, and how best to manage them. However, our obligations have been called into question in relation to the wolf and the Berne Convention. The majority use the many legal assessments carried out prior to the submission of the notification, which conclude that Norway also has a separate responsibility in relation to the wolf. In its Communication, the Government proposes to limit the areas of life of the wolf in view of the need for the greatest possible distinction between the wolf and the buffalo on the field. This, in the government's view, will help to reduce the loss of sheep during the grazing season and at the same time reduce the negative impact of wolves on both domestic and wild rain. The majority enter the setting for a limited wolf area, but larger than that proposed in the message. In this way, the majority have been responsive to the desire for a slightly larger wolf zone, which has emerged during the treatment process. Furthermore, there has been a need to clarify the number of wolves that Norway will take responsibility for. Also, it takes the majority of the consequence of numbering the number of juveniles to three. In the extension of these conditions, the majority would like to transfer the administrative responsibility of the wolf to the regional predators concerned, as proposed by the Government, in order to bring the wolf management more into line with the management of the other major predatory species. Fear and quality of life have been central to the debate on predators, especially focused on wolves. A joint committee acknowledges this problem and takes it seriously. Fear may not be adopted but must be met by remedial measures as far as possible. It is therefore recommended that measures against fear be continued and reinforced. Furthermore, the setting of the problems particularly represented by the wolf in cases where it moves or is regularly close to population and population. It therefore facilitates the killing of these individuals if no other effective action can be taken. An important objective of the Government has been to better facilitate the local and regional management of predators. It is important to draw on local experience and knowledge in stocktaking, monitoring and management. A common picture of reality is also a prerequisite for mitigating the level of conflict. The notification and the conclusions of the Committee are therefore to establish local and regional ownership of the predatory game policy. This will also be an important contribution to the necessary trust between the users of the out-field, on the one hand, and the public administrations, on the other. Furthermore, new regional predators are now being set up to be politically elected. It would therefore be natural for the Ministry of the Environment to assume responsibility for the appeal, while the Directorate of Nature Management should be able to give its opinion before the appeal is finally settled. Administratively, only a higher political level can overcome a lower elected body. Furthermore, it is important that the denominators in their work involve business organisations and other relevant organisations, so that their interests are also safeguarded in the decision-making processes. Carnivores are perceived by many as an idyllic contribution to biodiversity. Of course it could be. But we must not forget that too many people are more serious than idyll. The loss of animals on the outback is experienced by many who are very stressful, both economically and humanly. Of course, we have to take this into account, which I also believe is a sign of the adjustment. Therefore, the two-part objective of the management of predators taking into account the desire for living areas and an active establishment is defined as an overall objective. This includes, inter alia: the sum of measures relating to the prevention, replacement and, where appropriate, conversion to agriculture as a result of predators must not have a negative impact on the basis of the presence of the industry. It is therefore also important to ensure the rapid extraction of pests as a necessary and effective precautionary measure that will reduce the loss of bovine animals. Prevention is a central concept of the Government's message. The setting also underlines the need for increased focus on this in order to reduce the loss rate. The majority therefore propose that, in addition to measures above the budget of the Ministry of the Environment, a separate pot be set aside with funds to be managed by the regional authorities. These means shall be placed at the disposal of local authorities, upon request, for their own selected prevention measures in the neighbourhood. In this way, local communities are also even more involved in the work of a locally anchored ownership of predatory wildlife policy. The regional authorities will also be allowed to determine where predators have their habitats within their region, referred to in the Communication as differentiated management. Furthermore, within the national target figures for each predatory game, the names will be given the necessary authority when taking out animals in the form of quota hunting or licence hunting. The national stock targets are set by the Storting, while the Ministry of the Environment, in cooperation with the body concerned, sets the targets for each region, but emphasises that account is to be taken of the level of wild game loads in the different regions. The majority have agreed on the following national stocking targets: three breeding wolves, 65 annual globular mounds, 39 dykes, 15 bear ewes and 850-1 200 nesting pairs of queens. Loss of dogs to predators is significant. Similarly, predators are claimed to be able to represent reduced hunting values for a number of landowners who have hunted as an important revenue. The majority therefore support the Government’s proposal to investigate whether the loss of not only hunting dogs, but dogs in general, is part of the compensation scheme. At the same time, the majority wish to continue and evaluate the testing scheme with compensation for lost hunting income due to predators. The proposal for a new replacement scheme has met with a lot of resistance, including justification. in the fear that it would create injustice between animal owners and concerns for the absence of real compensation in the event of loss of animals on land. The Government's intention with a more intensive substitution scheme is that it will increase the focus on prevention measures. Through an advance risk-based payment, it is the government’s view that over a period of time, such a scheme would be economically advantageous to the individual animal owner. However, the resistance has been so great that the majority, in agreement with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, has chosen to ask the Government to return to the Stortinget on its own matter in connection with the 2006 State budget. However, the majority consider some assumptions in line with the Government’s proposal, while at the same time taking up the concerns expressed. The majority further state that until the Storting has re-examined the case, the current compensation scheme is continued on the basis of a legal right to full compensation for real losses, as established by the law of the wild. Let me conclude by saying that it has been an objective to ensure the widest possible political agreement on the broad lines of predatory policy. It is important for example: in the interests of predictability of industries and districts. I am pleased with the goodwill and constructive cooperation that the Workers' Party and the SV have contributed to ensure this broad political platform. Let me also say that my post clearly shows that the committee has actually listened, that it has not been impossible to reach us. At a very large number of points, the policy has been adjusted as a result of external input, while the government, on its side, has been over-implemented in its policy, while at the same time expressing its willingness to make the necessary adjustments and changes to ensure sound and predictable decisions on predators in Norwegian nature. Let me also clarify in relation to the part of the position in which the Committee refers to the Ministry of the Environment as the appeal body before the Directorate of Nature Management. There's my opinion that the Center Party has fallen out of the majority, and I point out that it hasn't been the intention. With this in mind, I recommend the Committee's position and mention the proposal which is at the disposal of the representatives and which expresses a wish for further clarification of an area of wild game policy and management that has been created uncertain by the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e136	The President assumes that the proposal referred to by the speaker is Proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox The representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e141	I think it's a little surprising that the agreement between the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party has actually become so strong that you don't repeat each other, especially in view of the noise that was in front of the processing of this message. I agree with the representative Rahm that there has been an attempt by the government parties, SV and the Workers' Party to reach a broad political agreement. Unfortunately, it does not result in a good and sensible predatory policy. I have never in my time as a politician recorded such a strong commitment from the local population as when it comes to the view of predators. We have experienced this through the inspections we have had, the hearings that the Committee has had, and the input that has been made as a politician – either by mail, e-mail or telephone. There have been two clear messages: the local population will have fewer predators, and they will manage these predators themselves. None of this is the result of the deal you've made. A settlement has been made that will increase the level of conflict quite strongly. Then is the question of the Christian People's Party: Why does not the Christian People's Party take into account the input made during the processing of the message? Why do they not listen more strongly to people in the community, or take into account their needs and the input they have made?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e150	The President will note that, in his experience, it is not uncommon that when the noise level has been high for some time, it seems strikingly quiet afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e153	What I said in my post coincides quite well with Øyvind Korsberg's description of the commitment and the interest attached to this matter. This has been exceptionally strong, perhaps some of the strongest thing I've ever been to in my time in Stortinget. In that way, we've done the exact same experience. Now I don't know if Øyvind Korsberg was entirely present during my post, but I can only repeat – so that also Korsberg can capture it – that on most points that I touched, and more, there have been quite significant changes and adjustments in important areas, just as a consequence of a strong commitment and of the many recordings that have come. I would therefore like to reject a claim that the majority does not take into account the realities of this matter, as they have arisen during the Committee's proceedings and in meetings with many of those affected in some way. I can offer Korsberg a copy of my post to confirm just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e160	It is quite right, as has been said, that there has been a strong commitment to this matter, both among people living in Building Norway, among various organisations and in political parties. I believe that there is reason to praise the setting for some improvements in relation to the way the message was when it came. But the worst problem has not been solved. The number of predators is too high. The majority add up to a large predatory pressure in parts of Building Norway. But it is also known that several of the members of the committee are happy to release predators in domestic areas, and I have every understanding of that. But the question is, why should it be necessary to put so much pressure on other parts of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e167	I'm actually a little excited that the Center Party is giving some honor to the majority vote. I think that's right, because I think we've got a majority position that has a broad platform, and that takes a number of important steps to improve predatory game policy and create predictability. Knowing what to stick to, both in business and in community, I think is important, not least when it comes to mitigating the level of conflict. It's, as I said in my post, an overall goal. The question of the location, i.e. the habitats of predators, has no connection with the origin of the different representatives. It is simply linked to a reasonable management based on the natural geographic location of predators. It is a relatively strong, professional assessment of this which is contained in the Communication. This is primarily the background for it, as well as trying to protect the areas that are most vulnerable to the loss of sheep and other bofe on the outback.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e174	My reply is to the proposal tabled by the rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, Mr Rahm. It reads as follows: ‘The size suggests that the measures referred to by the settlement partners in the setting of the robberies message are entered under the Ministry of the Environment’. For me, this is going to be a half-wheated display, like so much else in this setting. But I have the following questions for Rahm: does that mean that all the economy related to the forest management is going through the Ministry of the Environment? Does this also mean that an economy is provided that gives you an estimate of both prevention and compensation so that it does not end early in the season or in a budget year? It is somewhat surprising that none of the conciliators in the Committee have commented on the economy, because the Communication states that the Government considers that it should not increase the total cost of robbery management and that the costs should be covered under existing funds. At the same time, the pressure on predators is increasing dramatically.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e184	Economics are mentioned both directly and indirectly in the suspension and also in the announcement from the Government. There is some logic in what the Government emphasises as regards the cost of the predatory game policy, namely that the measures should lead to a reduction in the loss of bumps and that it should be followed chronologically in relation to the need for payments. At the same time, the majority of the Committee points out that we need to be willing to use the funds needed to implement a good administrative policy for both wolves and other predators. Let me read the proposal that is on the table, to which the representative Joy referred: ‘The size suggests that the measures referred to by the settlement partners in the setting of the robberies message are entered under the Ministry of the Environment’. This is a clarification of what many people have considered unclear in the setting. We have therefore found it necessary to clarify that prevention and substitution should be fully placed under the Ministry of the Environment, while pointing out that the basis of industry’s life should not be weakened. It also applies in relation to the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e197	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e200	The debate on how we manage our predators engages many, and that is very understandable. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have contributed well-informed and good ideas on how to achieve a better predatory policy than could be expected. This matter affects the daily lives of many of those living in communities who have been affected by predators for many years, many of those who live by sheep farming or reindeer farming, and many of those who are hunters, and it is clear that it affects the quality of life of many people. I am pleased that the outcome of the Committee's work is a broad compromise. It is very important in such a conflict-affected area as this. Only the Advance Party and the Center Party have chosen to stand on the sideline in this case, and of course it is free choice. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to help turn the government's policy in a more correct direction. I think everyone makes a living on that. It will provide better predictability and long-termity, which is absolutely necessary to mitigate the level of conflict in this area. The fact that we have had three big messages about predatory game in the last ten years says everything about how difficult this case is. I hope the fact that it's now a broad deal, makes it long until we get such a round back here in the house, and we, who make up the majority in this case, have a responsibility to contribute to it. I am pleased that today's setting differs from the Government's proposals on important points, because it is not that the message contributed to calmness and a lower level of conflict. On the contrary, some of the government's proposals created violent anger in many places in the country. There are many reasons to take when we adopt a policy for the management of our predators. The goal of maintaining viable populations, so that we take care of biodiversity, is important. But we must also take account of the many who are affected. The agricultural industry and the reindeer industry are the industries affected and will be in the future. But the entire population living in predatory areas feels this on the body. Many say they're insecure, many feel that their quality of life is weak, and we have to take that seriously. That is why this is also about housing and district policy. I believe that the Storing Message does not take sufficient account of these important circumstances. The Labour Party has always considered that we still need to maintain the two-part objective, so that it is still possible to operate agriculture in predatory areas. I am pleased that the bulk of the population today so clearly emphasizes that this should be the case. But it obligates. We cannot, as the Government does in the message, increase the number of predators without increasing the appropriations for prevention and other costs. Increased efforts to prevent, as the majority advocates, are therefore a very important contribution to alleviating conflicts with regard to the management of wild game. It is important to stress that all measures agreed between the settlement partners should be placed under the Ministry of the Environment. A prerequisite for achieving a sustainable and conflict-reducing predatory management is to create trust between the authorities and those who feel this on the body. Creating trust is a challenge, and you have to contribute on both sides of the table. I think what the Big One is going to adopt today is an important step on that road. The most important thing I would like to mention in this connection is the following: We now have more administrative regions with politically appointed predatory wildlife subjects. The Ministry of the Environment shall be the appeal body instead of the DN. We get more local involvement in the stock registration. All four major predatory species, including wolves, shall be managed by regional predators. We're going to get a more efficient and faster extraction of pests. The municipalities with a high predatory load will receive money that they can spend on measures in this area, in order to deal with that situation. There should be closer cooperation, especially with Sweden, on how to manage the animals that are still on both sides of the border. Another proposal in the message that has, understandably, created a great deal of commitment is the proposal for a new compensation scheme. With the arrangement of the Government, much of the compensation would have disappeared into the agricultural transfers, and only a small part would remain in the Ministry of the Environment for direct use in the forest game management. In the view of the Labour Party, the scheme would seem very unfair and hit those who, despite its prevention, lost the most. The fact that the majority is now in favour of a system that both ensures prevention and continues to compensate for undocumented losses is important for agriculture, and it will, in my view, help to mitigate the conflicts with regard to the Government's proposals. This scheme shall be located in the Ministry of the Environment. Taking care of the predators is the responsibility of the entire country. Therefore, in my opinion, it was incomprehensible and unwise by the Government to propose a management zone for wolves that was confined to a narrow area east of Glomma. In this way, it would become a small part of the country and cause people who alone had to bear the burden of having wolves – and this in an area that already has a lot of strain both with yours, bears and gauze. Such proposals do not help to mitigate conflicts; such proposals increase conflicts. Therefore, there were not many who supported Regestinga's proposal for a wolf zone either. Both environmental organisations and business organisations were strongly opposed. That is why I am pleased that the wolf zone is now being expanded with, among other things. Oslomarka and Asker and Bærum through the agreement we have made. In addition, we have protected the domestic areas and the most sheepy areas of the country. For some people, it might seem strange that we here at Stortinget can decide how many juveniles of every predator we're going to have, and that nature itself can't sort things out. I think it says a lot about how strong emotions and how big challenges there are in this case. Where the government proposed a few penultimate wolves, the majority of the population, as explained by the rapporteur, set a stocking target of three young wolves per year within the zone that the Storting will determine today. I think we're going to be able to deal with the challenges that will come from having three wolf families in this zone. That we can now experience wolves, for example. in Oslomarka, is nothing new, but I think it's good. It was absolutely necessary that a larger part of the country took its responsibility, and not just left it to a small area. I believe that the stock numbers we are now adding are sound. For bear and yer, they are less than the government proposed, and for gloat and monarch, we support the government's proposal. For those people who live on a daily basis with predatory challenges, whether because of yours or fear of the wolf rushing around in the construction field, this is about everyday challenges that we have to deal with. When we finally reached the goal in this case, it says itself that all the parties have had to four at their primary positions. Of course, this also applies to us in the Workers' Party. We believe, however, that we have had a positive impact on many of our proposals, and I also feel that the other three parties are well satisfied. This is good for future cooperation in the field of predatory wildlife policy. We have reason to thank each other for coming up with this result. However, it is very important that the administration follow up the decisions that will be taken here today, so that the level of conflict also goes down in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e252	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e255	The representative, Brustad, said that the Progress Party chose to stand on the sideline during the processing of this message. We were at least no more on the sideline in this matter than we were called in by the government parties, and in particular by the case-rapporteur, Mr Rahm, for negotiations. We even got a draft with five points from the Christian People's Party. When this happened, it was enough to scare the Workers' Party and SV back to the negotiating table. You got the message you unfortunately got. I could also intend to ask questions about the local democracy of Sylvia Brustad, but in danger of getting such a “good day, man – axe shaft” response that I received from Brother Yngve Rahm, I will not do so. But I want to ask you a question about proposal IV, which goes on economics. How much money is there to give to these regions? Should there be equal amounts for the regions? And what are the criteria for compensation to be paid to municipalities that have large predatory wildlife populations and the extent of damage in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e262	I understand that the representative of Korsberg and the Progress Party is a little offended because they did not join the agreement. There may be a lot to say about the negotiations before we got to the goal, but I will leave that in this round. The working party has not been frightened. We've been busy getting a better policy than the government originally proposed. And that is what we have been given, on very important points that there have been very strong demands from many parts of the country – this is not least about local democracy. It's not just a ‘good day, man – axe shaft’ response. There are good measures that lie there, that we get political appointment in regional terms, and that we get the Ministry of the Environment as an appeal body. There are also a number of other measures. As far as the economy is concerned, it is clear that we are going to spend more money on prevention measures. How much, of course, belongs in the budget; it is not dealt with in a big message. It is also clear that it is the regional denominators who are to receive money and who are to pass them on to the municipalities that are to house most predators. Then, on the way, we have to figure out how much it is going to be when the budget is being discussed, but it is based on the fact that we are going to spend the money that is needed, as the rapporteur said.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e271	The representative, Brustad, said that the centre party was on the sideline. No, we do not, but we have a completely different starting point for predatory policies in Norway, among other things. we say no to the breeding wolf. We share that position with many outside the country, including among voters and members of the Brustad Party. We in the Center Party believe that this stand point should and must be represented and fought for as a primary position also in the Storting. The effect of promoting it is, at least to the conciliators, something like splashing water on the goose. But it's got to be. I want to address two small questions. One is that of reindeer farming and cohabiting in my and Sylvia Brustad's home municipality. There it is now that the wolf zone is placed on the border between Engerdal and Trysil, and it is only 3 to 4 miles to the domestic grazing area. Does Brustad believe that this is a safe and adequate distance and buffer to the domestic area? The wolf moves up to 20 miles per. 24 hours. Then to the replacement policy. Brustad promised better compensation arrangements and guaranteed it would come. [[The President clubs.]] [[The President clubs again.]] Now you push on this until 2006, without any clarification. Does Brustad think that's a good policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e280	The President reminds us that the speaking time for lines is one minute. The President will also express some doubts as to whether it is appropriate to involve the goose in addition to the animal species already in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e285	I think it's pretty obvious to everyone that the Center Party has not had one word to say in relation to the improvement that is now in this setting. It's free choice. The center part has chosen the line by saying no, and it's on it – I would almost say, until Dovre falls. That means that if there had not been any other parties, including the Workers' Party, who here had taken responsibility for influencing and dragging the Government's proposal in another direction, it would have been the Government's proposal that had been adopted. For the county that Ola Dagfinn and I are from, Hedmark, and for other counties that are already struggling with many predators today, the situation would be even worse. That is the reality. This is what the Centre Party has chosen to do. Then I might also think there's reason, as in myself, Inger Enger did, to give a little honey to those who have actually done this better. But that's okay. As far as tamrein is concerned, we have specified that special consideration should be given to the domestic areas of Engerdal, since Trysil is inside the wolf zone. We've also said that in terms of pest withdrawals in these areas, it's going to happen much faster than the case today. So I think that's taken care of. Yes, we're adding up to a much better compensation scheme than that, and we're not pushing on it. The current system shall be maintained until the new one is put into effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e294	The President is not fully involved in the local situation, but will assume that in this case, Ola Dagfinn is the representative of Wickedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e297	It was interesting to hear the representative Brustad, but I do not agree very much with much of what she says. The claim that the Progress Party has been on the sideline together with the Center Party is totally wrong. For there are some who have really understood the problem of predatory policies and the pressures that the large community, with the Workers' Party at the head, has imposed on a small part of Norway, and the Progress Party has tried to do something about this. Then I have a question for those who make up the majority in this case. There is talk of remedial measures and living in harmony with predators. I read in a local way here during the day that a wolf walked 300 m from a kindergarten and walked through the center of a municipality. How, then, can the Workers' Party and the other parties be able to take remedial action so that predatory fear is subdued and gone? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e304	As far as the Progress Party is concerned, it is said that if the Progress Party had been able to determine district policy in this country, some districts and quite a few nutritionists would probably have had to go down. We can just go in and see what they're proposing in the agricultural transfers every year. It's a dramatic cut. It helps very little in a matter of predatory policies, as well as fighting for farmers and those living in the districts, when they actually have a policy for depopulation of large areas of the districts. Yes, we have proposed several remedial measures to deal with predators in a better way: more local participation and influence through regional denominators, lower numbers on bears and yerv, expanded wolf zone in relation to the government's proposal, money for the municipalities that house most predators, and a number of other measures. We feel that this is a setup that takes care of both parts, both domestic animals and predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e312	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e315	It is gratifying that today we have adopted the main features of the Government’s rapture message. This case is of a nature in which it is desirable to have a solid majority in the Storting, so that one avoids constant rematches. It was therefore good that the government parties, the Workers' Party and the SV could be grouped together on a common position that all parties have put their mark on. This case has been difficult because there are strong feelings about the issue of predatory game in Norway. In particular it applies to wolves. There's a lot of mystery around the wolf, partly based on real stories, partly based on adventures and traditions from generation to generation. It's true, as has been claimed by many teams, that the wolf does not belong to any original Norwegian or Nordic tribe. Today's wolves most likely belong to the Russian wolf tribe, and it is not endangered. Nevertheless, most of the parties have programmed that we should have all four major predatory species in Norway, and also royal eagles. Norway has also signed the so-called Berne Convention, which obliges us in the field of predatory game policy. Although there has been a dispute over the interpretation and duration of the Convention, the majority have set up extensive legal investigations to establish that we have international obligations in this area. The government has wanted to take some action in the field of predatory game policy: change the substitution rule, in order to encourage more measures to protect bofe against predatory wildlife damage, seeking to limit particularly the wolf to areas with a limited number of sheep establishing management regions that allow a local administration to be implemented; The government initially went in in order for the wolf to have a more central government. However, this agreement means that wolves may also be part of the local administration regime. In the case of government parties, it has been important to establish viable strains of predators, taking into account the densities — and killings — of buffalo and pure. Especially for the wolf, the discussion has gone high. The government wanted to limit the breeding wolf to the area east of Glomma, partly because that area only has approx. 2 pst. of the ovine population in Norway, and because Glomma could be a fairly straightforward limit to follow up. The working party and SV initially wanted a much larger area, where it is approx. 100,000 sheep, as well as those on the east side of Glomma. But in cooperation, you have to give and take. The compromise to extend the proposed zone with several municipalities in Akershus, the whole of Eastfold and Oslo is within what the government parties consider acceptable. The fear of predators must be sought, partly with information and partly with an extraction regime and hunting predators when the populations increase beyond the target population, or move outside the zone. The fear of walking in forests and fields and the fear of parents and children of meeting a hungry predatory flock shall not be minimized. Fear-reducing, preventive and administrative measures should therefore be targeted at those sections of the population that have the most predatory animals close to each other. Licensing and quota hunting when the wolf comes outside the wolf zone, or when it poses a danger to children, adults and dogs, is likely to make the wolf more cloudy and prevent it from sneaking on the stairs to people. It is quite easy, however, as the Progress Party interprets our predatory obligations: letting the wolf go where it wants to, but taking it out, that is. shoot it when it does damage. A wolf does per. definition harm when it eats to stay alive. It can be lively in the woods with such a policy! The centre party, which says no to the breeding wolf, today has a slightly different policy than when they were in the Bondevik I government. The rapture message was greatly dominated by the wolf shadow. It is also important to discuss the other predators: numbers, prevalence and management. In principle, there is agreement on the total national number. The majority of the Committee has subsequently given leadership to the Ministry in determining the number within each region. This is based on the fact that the Storting is not qualified to enter into such a detailed regulation. It is important to focus on mitigating the level of conflict where the large predators harm the population, livestock and game. In addition to extensive information efforts, there may be transparency about stock monitoring and stock registration. Furthermore, it is important that the forms of compensation seem fair. The majority have therefore discussed in detail new replacement rules for lost buffaloes, and ask the Government to present this in a separate case. However, the hope is that the damage will be somewhat reduced by a new form of compensation, but until it becomes operational, the current compensation scheme will continue. The Committee has also wanted to continue and subsequently evaluate the pilot scheme for renting hunting grounds. In some places, the predatory game has reduced the possibility of renting landowners. The size is known to exist in some landowners who claim compensation for the loss of grazing rights and reduce the attractiveness of hunting grounds. So we're not going into this. Finally, I would like to mention that the Committee wants an assessment of the extension of the emergency rule to include attacks on dogs. There are many dogs that have been lost. There has often been a wolf in the barrel that has taken a dog. Everyone is not satisfied with the setting. I believe that it should be possible, however, to mitigate the level of conflict with this, and hope that we now have good cooperation on the further management.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e358	The party of progress will let the wolf go where it will, and that is, in practice, what the wolf does too. I'm not so sure that it's going to read the proposal for a decision that's been presented today, but for the wolf's part, I hope it does. In 1998, the Right promoted a proposal to amend the emergency right because there was a high level of conflict between predators and boars on pasture. The level of conflict has not diminished since 1998, it has increased. But now that the Right is in government, they don't want to change the emergency court, and I want to know a little about the reason for that. The representative, Brustad, from the Workers' Party, said that the policy has now become better after the conciliation than the notification provided. Does the representative of Onarheim agree with that? And on what points has it gotten better?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e367	It's probably true that the limit is not so clearly marked that the wolf can see it in the field when it passes, but it's however such that these rifles often get rather stuck, even if the wolf moves quite a lot out of them. It's also the case that some striped wolves cross the border, and they could be extracted if they go outside these areas, or if there's an increase in the number. So we feel that this is possible. As far as emergency defence is concerned, we have said that this should be further investigated, because it is clear that the situation as it is today is not entirely satisfactory. It is uncertain how far the emergency court is actually going. So the question of whether the government parties also think it's an improvement. Yes, I'm honest enough to say that on some points I think so. There were some points that were a little bit uncertain, and we've now got them fixed in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e376	At this point in the debate, there is reason to conclude that there would not have been much predatory debate here if it had not been for the Centre Party and the Advance Party, which, according to the conciliators' statements, has resigned from the predatory debate. This suggests that this debate and this major issue should be avoided as much as possible in silence, when one cannot even discuss the matter in a line change, as much as one initially was, and so many shades that are unexplained in the communication as well. The representative of Onarheim was concerned with this with fear-reducing measures. Now what is that? And then you make it look like this is pretty harmless. He also used the expression that many people use, that the wolf can close on the stairs. It's not just sneaking, it's acting scary towards people. Why couldn’t the Right stand by what they have said before about the emergency section, that is, Section 11, that you can take out pests and traps under threat of direct attack? That's my first question. So to some of the Right-wing slogans: Right-wing guarantees ownership, they guarantee the right to engage in nutrition, and they guarantee your cause. This has been said by the right. Does Onarheim feel that he has done so to the people of these territories?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e385	I can assure the representative Joyful that there has not been much peace in this matter so far. It's been a pretty high level of sound, and there's been a lot of requests. To not having lines here, I would say that we have an agreement with Inger Enger that we should not take all the lines when you only have three lines. So we thought it was only quite reasonable that the centre party got to the present day in this matter. Here we think we've been a little "large". So for fear-reducing measures: as I said, not least this is that you should also be able to have license and quota hunting, which will make the wolf somewhat more anxious and a little bit more cloudy. There are also a number of measures that can be taken on the information page. So there's a lot of things you can add up to that that makes you get a little bit more calm about this. But the most important thing is, I think, that it is not added to that wolf and other predators are going to walk and sneak around the stairs. There's going to be a natural fear in this, and I think we're going to be able to establish with the rules that now apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e392	Right, in line with the Advance Party, shall be a lot to be understood, inter alia. the interests of the landowners/business operators and shall take care of them. With a new predatory zone and many predators – how will Right explain that they now agree to vote in order to reduce income opportunities by hunting, hunting, renting, adventure tours, that it is difficult to operate with bofe, etc. – thus reducing the possibility of living in nature and living by what it can provide? The reply from the representative of the Right may be that a remedy and compensation should be provided, but compensation is not the correct answer. Money can never replace the quality of life we now lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e399	It's true that both Bredvold and the previous replicator said that the right is occupied by the landowners. But at the same time we have to accept that in a field there are also animals other than those that we have on pasture. There's something in our fauna. Now you could say that the wolf hasn't been there for a long time. That's right, that's what it's been here for the last few years. But it's like in a field there's a lot of animals. Some like us less, maybe because they also hurt and cause fear, but we can't say for that reason that we don't want any of these predators. It is important that we are open that in a country we should have a variety of animals, including predators. We are also obliged to do this. Therefore, I believe that we need to have compensation schemes that take care of any of this. But you can't rule out all the animals that at some point do something wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e404	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e407	In this case, I actually feel like a lonely wolf [[muttering in the hall]] I would first like to be allowed to congratulate the representative, Brustad. It's just to lay flat for the impact she's had in these negotiations, and the results she's achieved for Hedmark. There's been a lot of local politics going on here, and there's also been a robbery center in Trysil. I'm sure Mr Norderhaug is pleased with that. There's also an elk center in Kongswinger. I'm sure Mr. Bones is very pleased with that. That some municipalities in Hedmark have come outside the wolf zone, is only to be registered. It is probably a good part of the working party rapporteurs and the SV rapporteurs who have come outside the wolf zone, who are happy about it. So it's almost that you could be a little tempted to wish her happiness in the nomination and election campaign. But I think it's a little sad that in such an important matter as the treatment of the wild game message, which affects the whole country – it's not just about the wolf, but it's also about the other predators – you have as subtle a focus as that of the setting in this case. I am amazed that the government parties have been able to participate in the drive that the Workers' Party, together with SV, has obviously submitted in this case. I see no reasonable argument that some of these municipalities are located outside the wolf zone. Having a wolf zone doesn't make sense in itself. But what the government had at least assumed, that it should only be wolf east of Glomma, was basically a little natural, for Glomma is a natural limit. We didn't agree with that, but at least we thought it was the most sensible thing here. What you've done now is complete – I shouldn't say it's completely meaningless, but it's not far away. It's totally confusing for people, and not least for the wolf, but it probably doesn't care about this. The municipalities located east of Glomma are naturally a wolf zone, no matter what the Stortinge would adopt. The wolf comes from Sweden, and then it comes through these municipalities. We think the way the majority of people have laid up the administration is hopeless. It will be an administration that increases the level of conflict quite radically. We want to allow the individual states to manage their predators. That the state politicians are able to do what we believe in. Unfortunately, the population doesn't want this. You will have much larger zones, and there will be much less opportunity to influence the predatory game policy. Whether there are six zones the government suggests, or whether there are eight zones, really doesn't matter. We live in a long-term country, there are large geographical areas to take into account, and we have county municipalities and county representatives who could clearly do this, just as they do a good deal of other areas of policy. We also believe that the decisions taken by wild game subjects should be final and not as they are today, where they are appealed to the county council, and in reality it is the Directorate of Natural Management that trains any application. In any case, what has become quite clear in the process we have had with this communication is that the Directorate for Nature Management is completely untrustworthy in the areas affected. Now, when you say that it's the Ministry of the Environment that's going to appeal, we don't think it's a step in the right direction. It will in fact be the same assessment, for the Directorate for Nature Management must give its opinion on the matter. We believe that regional and local problems – or challenges are probably a fairer expression – are best managed where it is possible, namely locally. There are some beautiful formulations in prevention. The experience we did as a committee when dealing with this matter was that prevention measures helped very little. We have seen problems with fences, in the case of watchdogs and in the case of conversion. Then I think the matter in Hasvik in Finnmark is the best, where a farmer had converted from sheep to bear, no, from sheep to pigs – not from sheep to bear, but it may be the next [[muttering in the hall]] Then I have to come back to the proposal under IV, which concerns that the municipalities will get their own pot of money for distribution. I think some municipalities, some nutritionists, the population and politicians regionally and locally now need to figure out what this really means. I expect that during this debate at least some signals will be given as to how much money you have thought about. I am aware that we are not going to have a budgetary procedure now, but it is possible to give some approximate answers, so that you know the amount of money you think about here. Because there can be an atmosphere out in District Norway that there will be a lot of money here for actions that will help, and I think the height of the fall can be quite large if it is not the case when the budget is presented. I guess the majority in the vote has discussed the amount of that amount, and it would be interesting for us, and not least for those who are affected by it, to get an overview of what you're thinking about here. I also have to go into the emergency court. It's just a shame that the Right does not stand for the policy that the Right stood for earlier, but it has to do with the fact that you have ended up in a position where you go away from what you thought before. An amendment to the emergency protection right is a change that would make it more appropriate for the sheep owners to be in the field just to be able to take care of their predators. This is the input we have received from all those who have made their views on this matter, and I can't understand why you can't change the emergency court, when the Right agreed with this earlier. As I said in the line to Onarheim, the level of conflict hasn't fallen, it has increased, but now you won't change it. In my view, we should do what we can to reduce the level of conflict and, in particular, to implement measures that will help those living in rural areas who are affected by this problem that the majority of the population now provides them with some means and can do some action to strengthen their faith in the way we manage predators here in Norway. As regards the notification itself, it is clear that the notification has been powdered through the treatment it has undergone in the Committee. I agree with both Brustad and Rahm that there have been significant changes. Unfortunately, the changes that have been made have not made it better, it has become worse. Here the Right has had to bite the sour apple once, and it must be a little sad for the Right-Representatives to see that a message that a Right-State Council has submitted has been smashed in the way it has been. You've constructed a completely artificial wolf zone, which doesn't follow any logic. There is no one who is positive to this wolf zone, except the majority here in the Storting. Those who are concerned about this issue, among others. Norway's Hunters' and Fishers' Federation, shaking their heads, it's just reading the press releases they're sending out. They do not understand what has happened in this case, and we understand them very well, that they have not understood it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e436	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e439	The Progress Party has for a long time been aware that they want more power in Norwegian policy. The party of progress is at regular intervals outside and is angry and hurt at other parties – read Right, in particular – so that they do not take the party of progress into the heat. The party of progress will have power, the party of progress will enter the government! Getting power involves taking responsibility. The progress party could have taken responsibility in this matter, the responsibility to contribute to calming Norwegian anti-roar policy and Norwegian anti-roar management. The party of progress doesn't do that. Instead, they beat in traditional fashion in all political directions. The representative of Korsberg is using the pulpit here to attack people. He comes with insinuation about the motives for the individual representative's reasons for going into things. These notes also give the impression that the reconciliation will reduce confidence between the local population and the central authorities, because the local population’s wishes are not being heard. This is gross, even from the Progress Party, but it is not yet too late to turn around, and also contribute to district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e448	More power, it's said. Of course, like all political parties, we want more influence on Norwegian policy, and in this case we tried to take responsibility. So, as I mentioned in the line to Rahm, we were in negotiations with the government parties. It's not a secret – it was in the media. We have also received a draft from the government parties with five points that we could agree on. But it seemed that it was not a desire and a willingness to come to an agreement with us. In my lines and in my post, I have commented on what is in the setting – that is what I have commented on – and it is quite clear in the setting what we think about this agreement, and what we think about some areas being more favoured than other areas. There's nothing to hide. There is black in white in the comments, and then I must also say it from the Stortings pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e455	It's a reasoning that I hope the representative of Korsberg can help me understand the logic of, and it's about the policy of the Progress Party in the field of wolves. The Progress Party’s 2001–2005 Major Election Programme states: ‘In Norway, a herd of wolves, yews, bears and boars should be maintained.’ Then the Progress Party writes in its comments that Norway is not obliged by the Berne Convention to have wolves. So you have programmed that we should have a wolf population here in the country, even if we are not obliged to do so. At the same time, when they point out in very strong order what plagues the population and businessmen have in relation to wolves, I have problems understanding the logic of their policies. The representative of Korsberg said in his speech that a wolf zone east of Glomma would be the most sensible, and attacking the Workers' Party to enter into a settlement with the government parties and the SV that extends this zone. Why was not the Progress Party initially supportive of the Government's original proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e467	It is nice to hear that the Right reader from our party program, and I understand from the national meeting that you should also start drawing plastic cards when necessary. On the back of those plastic cards with good quotes you can also have good suggestions that Right have made earlier when they were in opposition, but they do not promote when they are in government. I'm thinking about the emergency court. In the case of wolf east of Glomma, it's the best of two bottoms, because the wolf zone you now have is completely hopeless. Wolf east of Glomma is the best. But we were never allowed to get so far that we were able to conclude some negotiations with the government parties, and I think that is sad, because we had got a better policy than is the case today. It is quite right that we in the party programme have said that we should have a population of the four large predators in Norway, also wolves, but we do not have the objective of being breeding wolves in Norway, because wolves in Norway will anyway have as long as there is so much production of wolves in Sweden, and it is increasing. Then it is quite natural that the immigration of the wolf will come from the east, and we want wolves in Norway, even in those areas that the government parties think you can keep wolf-free, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e476	The President understands that this is part of immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e479	It is quite clear that there are two parties that have actually come out of the closet and in this setting have said that they will eradicate the wolf, and that is the Progress Party and the Center Party. When the Progress Party states that there should be no objective of having breeding wolves, but that it can happen naturally if it does not cause disadvantages to the population or owners of land, it must mean that the wolf will come to Norway if it changes and becomes a vegetarian. The wolf can't do that! We must draw the conclusion that if the Progress Party gets its will, we do not have wolf in Norwegian nature. Then Korsberg and others must stand at the Swedish border and shoot those who cross. It's not a legitimate policy. If Kenya, Tanzania and South Africa had conducted the same policy towards lions, we would not have had lions in the world. If India had led the same policy towards tigers, we wouldn't have tigers in the world. It's possible it's naive, but to me it's a basic choice: do we have room for predators on this planet?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e488	I think it is an advantage to keep this predatory debate mainly to Norway, not to do as SV does, to go to Africa and start discussing the level. Clearly, wolves will suffer. But I think it'll be pretty hopeless if you start to decide how many breeding wolves you're going to have in Norway, and where that wolf is going to be allowed to move. Our starting point is that you would like to have breeding wolves in Norway as long as it does not cause major problems. There have been wolves in Norway for quite some time, which have not caused problems for the population and for the sheep industry, above all. What is our starting point is that we take into account the part of the population living in the district. That is not the case with the policy they are currently pursuing, and that is the big difference between SV and the Progress Party in this case. We take account of local democracy, and we defend it in this Chamber. We're all alone, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e497	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e500	I must repeat to the Progress Party that I believe the Progress Party is ten times more dangerous for the districts than the wolf! I would like to thank my conciliators for a good cooperation in this process. But I would particularly like to thank the Workers' Party, which together with SV, I believe, made sure that this matter got back on track. It was nice. I would also like to thank the many organisations that have made recordings, both business organisations and environmental organisations, as well as municipalities and municipalities. We've got a lot of input, it's been a lot of activity. There has been a lot of criticism, but also some positive input that we have been able to use in our work – to the very end. Let me also clarify what both the committee leader and others have had to say that because of the fact that it has been a little impeccable who is responsible for the roll-over message and what is in the setting, the settlement partners have had to put forward a proposal that clarifies that this responsibility in relation to the measures mentioned in the resolution lies with the Ministry of the Environment – so that it becomes quite clear. SV immediately said that this is a good starting point. We pointed to a couple of things that we would negotiate. The one thing was wolf sona and preventive measures, and then it was the fact that one was going to shoot out gloat and yew in Finnmark, which we totally incomprehensible to us. But in addition to this, we also said that we believe it is necessary to have a broad plurality that can last for a long time – preferably ten years, so that one escapes such uproaring debates as one has now had on this matter. The majority on which a majority is based shall have a two-part objective at the bottom: we shall have both living districts and small-scale use, and we shall also carry out the international obligations we have to have viable populations of the large predators. Today, by this agreement, we have made it! So even if the way forward has our thorny and difficult, we've come up with a wide, 80 pst deal. by the representatives of the people behind them. It's heavy! This will ensure that we have a far-reaching predatory policy for a long time. Then the challenge for the many with whom we have cooperated in the process towards the decision is to be involved and to contribute to the effective realisation of this heavy conciliation now, in a way that everyone can be satisfied with. It's a challenge for the many people who have made contributions – and that challenge I hope people will meet. In the evening post yesterday we could read about a schoolgirl, Anne Marthe Lie, who met the wolf, and who says to the newspaper: I knew how to take this. She was calm. There's also a quote from the father, who said, "I want us to keep our obligations in relation to having the big predators." It may not be that in Africa, where we are to demand that they have lions and tigers, while we ourselves should not have predators. There is no logic in it, says this father. – There I thought the parties that think otherwise had to think carefully about. Is it the case that only poor countries are going to have predators? Is that the policy of the Central Party and the Progress Party? Shouldn't Kingdom of Norway take responsibility for the predators we have? There are many things SV is pleased with in this agreement, among other things. to get an Abruzzo project. In Italy there is a national park with a sloping area where there are a lot of predators. There are a lot of tourists who come to look at this area – not just because of the predators, because there are also buffaloes. Now through this setting, we've suggested that we get a center like this in Trysil. It's SV happy with. So it's clear that SV is very pleased that the bulk of the population realized the stupidity that was in the message, that one would actually shoot you out and gloat in Finnmark, something that seemed completely incomprehensible to us in the SV. Why would one do that all day? It's still in place. Now Finnmark will also have to keep what they've had since the morning. And I hope the Environment Minister can comment on it – whether he is also pleased that it is now coming back into place again. The inventory measures have been slightly lower than the one the government has created, but one has made it clear that the government has not succeeded in setting a figure for the young wolf. Even if that number is low, one must be satisfied that one has a stocking number on the wolf, and one has clear and clear numbers on the other varieties, even if one has gone down on the bear and yours. Gaupe and the king eagle were all parties some about. We suggest that there should be a new case about a replacement arrangement. Our starting point was that the incentive that the government came with was very good, and it feels SV is represented by the reconciliation that we now have. There shall be important preventive incentives in the new compensation scheme, to which we shall return. However, there should also be discretionary loss possibilities when there are specific situations that require it. Now, there's a couple of things that we have to do. We now also get an administrative regional spot, but we don't have a certain amount, which the Progress Party is asking for. But we're going to get this pot, we're going to have one point back. This pot should be an incentive for municipalities to, for example: can apply for funds for preventive projects in its municipality, without necessarily having to be so very specific. This is precisely to try to bring the local level in a different way from what we've been able to do now, to ensure that resources are provided to those municipalities that have predatory problems, so that they can actively pursue prevention measures as they themselves wish. That thinks SV is important. Then SV is also pleased that the conciliation has taken hold of the animal crime as one, among other things. has been illustrated in Focus programs on TV, where an actual active target predator, and there is not enough research into this so that one can capture the sinners who are doing this. Now you should get a stronger focus. That's what the conciliators are all about. It's SV happy with. Finally, in this debate and when I've been out at the meeting, I have sometimes felt that it's a very iceberg, and on top of that iceberg there's a wolf. During this wolf debate, some people have shown an enormous amount of aggression when it comes to the wolf, which we will in a way force on people. I think a lot of the reaction that we've got from the districts also goes on a lot of other things. It goes under poorer conditions for agriculture in the districts. There is a need to reduce incentives for small-scale use in the districts. This is a policy of EU integration. It is in the EEA Agreement. It goes on a bunch of things that have accumulated, and that end up at the top of an iceberg, where the wolf is sitting. I'm glad we've had a broad deal in predator policy. SV is set to last a long time, and we hope for the sake of the cause, not only for the district industries, but also for the predators, that this agreement will last a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e542	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e546	Langeland quoted in his post from the Evening Post a touching story about a little girl who met the wolf. Fortunately, it went well. If he had taken the trouble of reading the rest of the piece, he would have seen that the picture was somewhat more nuanced than that. I'll quote from another newspaper. It's from the nations. A few days ago, it said, ‘Stop the watchdog project’. I might have to tell the people that we were around on a lot of hearings. We went on tour in the whole country, and Langeland recommended watchdogs as something very safe and sound. Now it says in the nations: ‘Two of the three sheepfolds who have taken part in the watchdog project in the Lierne have completed...’» I'm not going to accuse Langeland of misinforming, or that he's got himself into things badly, but has he now come to the truth's recognition and realize that watchdogs are not something to bet on, that the whole project has gone over?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e558	The Special Center Party is one of the parties that does not take international responsibility for the possession of predators. They say we shouldn't have wolves in Norway. They certainly think there should be tigers, cheetahs and lions in Africa, but in Norway there should not be predators. When it applies to the 11-year-old, I have history here. I've read it. It's very clear what the danger is saying about this. Companion wants predators. But we need to take a joint initiative – it does compare – to address the problem and recognize that someone has been afraid and worked on it. This makes the comparison in text. In the case of dogs: in Abruzzo in Italy and in many other countries, this seems to be a real bet on it. That bet adds up to this equation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e567	Local animal protection subjects and game subjects have worked well for a long time in the municipalities of Norway, at least in my opinion. I would like to ask the representative whether he does not believe that the local animal welfare authorities are competent to assess what is best for landowners and residents in each municipality, so that local knowledge and values are taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e572	This is precisely what the representative here is asking for, that one should try to get more local management, not only by predators through the administrative regions, but also by being able to control funds, money, locally where one has the predatory problem. There is no doubt that the direction of the agreement is that local democracy should be more involved in this. When it comes to animal welfare students, it's clear that our starting point is that it's not the ones that should primarily govern this policy. As a whole, predatory policies are supposed to govern this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e579	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e582	It is well known to everyone that the Central Party is very critical both of the predatory game policy we've had, and of the policy that the majority of the Stortinget is now putting up. But when it's true, the Central Party actually feels that the Committee has now worked hard on the message and has taken on many weaknesses. The message had not captured the major conflicts we have in the roving game management. The resistance of builders and fear of predators were not taken seriously. There is no doubt that the Committee has met much of the criticisms made by businessmen, local politicians and a few political parties. Some of the majority settings have been pushed in the right direction. Then we'll hear, the center party is out. Far from it – since today we have received a proposal on the table for compensation. It is almost identical to the proposal put forward by the Senterpartiet long ago, i.e. that all the costs of predatory game policy should be borne by the Ministry of the Environment. For example, the committee setting contains: There are also many improvements in the role of the Ministry of the Environment as the appeal body and in the fact that the members of the authorities of the wild game are elected by the people. So there are still improvements that the majority have come up with on the basis of signals they have received. Now it might sound as if the Center Party is very satisfied with all the things. We're not, because in one area, when it comes to how many predators we're going to have here in the country, the Central Party has a completely different view than the majority. And it's this theme that's absolutely crucial. Fewer predators would mean less conflicts and disadvantages. With the stock targets now set by the majority, problems will increase. Local influences, more reliable stock records, efficient take-offs and the gradual introduction of hunting are good. But it would have been a much simpler and more predictable situation if the Senter Party had been able to get through for fewer predators. It would really help both for the exercise of legitimate grazing and for all other land-based activities, not least for those living in the exposed areas. The centre party has understood the arguments of those who want more predators. I'm sure that's sincere, but the arguments are completely different from those we hear from people who have the problems of life -- a little less grounded in a way. The centre party is not in doubt that consideration for the local population and the district industries should be crucial. That is why we strongly regret the fact that the majority does not take the decisive step of reducing the number of predators. The centre party disagrees with the fact that three breeding family groups of wolves will now be allowed in addition to an unknown number of cross-border and individual flocks. The centre party is suspended because we do not want breeding wolves in Norway – it does not get any help. We think it went quite well without the breeding wolf in this country, and the period was quite long. We also disagree with the increase in bear strains to 15 annual juveniles. The problems are big as they are in the exposed areas, so they have to get worse. This proposal will involve approx. 150 bears, and there'll be about a quadruple of today's number. In the case of you, the main problem of grazing, the large number of juveniles – almost 40 – will continue to kill thousands of sheep on grazing every year. Unfortunately, the number of flaps should also increase again. On the basis of the number of populations added to it by the government parties and the Workers' Party and SV, it is difficult to enjoy the good aspects of the message, as I mentioned in the introduction. The improvements provided by the adjustment are subordinated to what is and will be the main thing: there is the amount of predators that the bulk of the population will have, with the major disadvantages and costs involved. At this crucial point, the minority totally disagrees with the majority. Occasionally, proposals for the evaluation of a case are made after a few years. It tends to be effective for issues where developments in the future seem uncertain. No one has it this time. Nor have I seen the need to make proposals to adopt an evaluation. It's probably getting off its feet. For the requirement of fewer predators, good and well-thought-out formulations in the bulk documents cannot be met. It doesn't hold, we have to have proper decisions that would have done something about predators' numbers. Finally, I address the proposals on which the Central Party stands alone. We also support the proposal tabled by the majority today, and we also support what Mr Rahm said, where we were left out in the first place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e613	The representative, Inger S. None, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e618	Politics is to be desired, but politics is also to be achieved. The agreement now in place, and the majority that has been reached, is inter alia: described as a better solution than the Government proposal by the centre party newspaper Østlandingen. It is described as a great victory for those who want more local governance, and it is also there – from the leadership position – described as something to live with. After all, it must be a cross of thought for the Central Party that, in such an important case, you put yourself on the sideline as you have actually done in this case, without any opportunity to influence in a matter that is so important to the party and its voters. Is this a dilemma for the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e625	I do not know how well the representative Storberget followed when I spoke. I actually said – I almost used one side of it – that there had been many improvements in the setting. It's made things better, and I think there's a lot of people working on it. I also mentioned that there have been different organisations, local people and actually also some political parties that have stood for it since. It is completely wrong when Storberget says we are outside. I actually don't understand what he's thinking about then. As I said, as late as today, there has been a proposal on our table that is almost identical to the senterpartiet submitted before the deadline for the release of the setting expired. It is one of the proposals that help make this more viable. It's almost like the Center Party has been a gangster here, and the others have come after – and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e632	Inger S. Enger is talking about the populations; she specifically mentioned the bear. However, if you are to have a viable, sustainable population, you must have 14–15 annual young people. Then it's not easy, if you're going to have a viable population first, to go as far down as the Center Party wants. But my question goes more to the procedure itself. I have great faith that Inger S. Enger and I share the same opinion on how to deal with difficult matters in Stortinget. As for the meeting we had in place here – and I understand that those who are affected are quite strong in their characteristics – the Center Party and the Center Party leader were out with a statement that went very far, I thought, pointing out that this majority of the Storting did what they could to make it unkind to other people around the country. Does Inger S. share that vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e640	Onarheim took up two themes in his line to me, as I experienced it, first of all this with bear and viable strains. So we're talking about 15 young people per year. years. They don't get kids that often, so they need two and a half guts -- I've read about this -- to get a kid this year. It's going to be about 45 inches, and think of the pile of free males running around them. So this is going to be clumsy, and there's going to be a lot of bears of it, and we have big enough problems with the way it is today. That's the one. As far as the public meeting is concerned, there's probably a lot to say about it from more teams. But the leader of the Center Party had an appeal that only went on the wolf, and in that context I share her opinion. She concentrated only on one subject, it was wolf, and there we agree completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e647	I have two questions for the Center Party. One goes on if the Center Party can't help marginalizing itself. In this case, the party has in some way gone to the stage where they think Norway is going to break international agreements, the same thing that the Progress Party is doing in some cases. The EEA Agreement allows labour immigration under certain conditions, but the wolf must be gunned at the border post to be set up by the Centre Party. Is it good central party policy to break international agreements? Point 2: This is the danger that says we have to have wolves in Norway, we can't just demand one in all other countries, for example. in Africa, shall have tigers, cheetahs and lions, while we shall not have predators. So Riche Norway isn't going to take care of its obligations, but the Central Party probably thinks they're going to take care of this in Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e654	We have obligations to have predators. If you look in the setting, you'll see that we're not against having predators in this country. We want fewer than the majority, and there are a lot of people who thank us, but we're not against predators. In the case of wolves, we do not break any international agreement at all. Norway has no obligation to have its own tribe in relation to this Russian wolf. It's plenty of it. There has been talk of mountain reefs, and we have actually entered it to strengthen in connection with this message. We believe that one should take out the royal eagle to save the mountain reefs. The majority say no. So here's a couple of sides that Langeland should also take inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e659	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e662	The government has launched a new and honest predatory policy with the big message «Rovvilt i norsk nature». While predatory policies in the past have been the embodiment of conflicts under the chair, the government has come up with a solution-oriented message. It is gratifying to the Left that a broad plurality of the Stortinge essentially supports government's predatory policy. It asks for one to be given a long-term administration. Our large predators are a valuable and important part of Norwegian fauna. To the extent that predatory protection, animal husbandry and reindeer management have not been achieved, Norway’s obligations to sustain viable predatory wildlife strains must be maintained. However, this also means that compensation must be granted to farmers who have to bear the cost of a protection policy established by the Community. The left is satisfied that the stock targets behind a broad multiplicity are in line with our international agreements. Much of the focus in the predatory game debate in general, but also in this debate, is on the damage that comes from predatory game. Have a look at the positive ringing effects of having a viable predatory wildlife population. I am thinking in particular of the tourism industry, where Norwegian natural experiences are a salsa product. I'm overconfident that wild nature with wild predators like gloupe, yerv, bear and wolf is attractive, exciting and exotic to tourists from abroad. I am therefore calling on the new local administrative regions to also see opportunities, not just the disadvantages. The left is excited about strengthening local democracy. We are concerned that those who are close to the problems are those who are best placed to make the best decisions. At the same time, Norway has international obligations in relation to predatory game. National minimum populations allocated to local government regions will be able to find sensible and conflict-reducing solutions that balance the human burden and industrial interests against the concern of predators. We believe it is entirely in line with the democratic principle that decisions by regional elected bodies should be handled by a department, and support the majority in the committee, which asks the Ministry of the Environment to be the appeal body for decisions by regional authorities. The left is satisfied that the new replacement system contains strong preventive elements, and that the Government takes important steps to stimulate a distinction between predators and grazing animals in time and space. Sau alone on pasture goes bad with you and wolf. This is precisely what the new compensation scheme takes inwards. The sheep farmer is still being compensated for documented predatory game. A scheme designed to provide a significant part of the compensation as a prepayment, as an incentive for the implementation of prevention losses, is much better. This gives clear incentives to keep the animals and screens them from predatory attacks. In the Government's proposal there are also possibilities for understanding. The left is pleased that the predatory game policy in Norway has been given a new and honest course. Clearly defining the priority of predators and the area in which the sheep is to be protected will help to reduce the level of conflict between humans and predators. The government's proposal for the management area of the young wolf was based on input from the professional community, and the Left was well pleased with the restriction and son proposed by the Government. We're behind the deal and we're supporting the extension of the sona, and we're very happy that the sona has become very limited. And then I'm going to say that when one has now entered an extension of this area and clearly defined these zones, the major community's orders must be followed up. The major community must also take responsibility for securing the commercial interests of these regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e683	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e686	We are discussing today the report on predatory wildlife, which the Committee, among other things, has come to the conclusion that we should have wolves in a particular zone. But the Council of State has not taken a position on what he thinks about introduced species in Norwegian fauna. The wolf was eradicated in Norway and Sweden. It's introduced. It's out. I have a picture of the last wolf that was exterminated by the Norwegian state in Finnmark. It's introduced. It's a new species. It is not Norwegian, nor is it Swedish, and it is not endangered at all. But we just have to accept that the Storting sets a limit. However, the size does not say anything about the possibility of killing the animal outside that limit – they say nothing about it. I assume that the committee and the Stortinget are aware that wolves also breed and get up to six kids a year. They live on. We also need to take a stand for eagles, youives and gloats. The eagle trunk has grown enormously, precisely because no more eagles are caught. This has resulted in that we almost don't have an errand left on the coast, because predators must have food. They don't eat potatoes. They eat other animals. It's predators we're talking about. Jerv eats other animals too. And what you have to ask is how long will the sheep farmers continue to feed predators? They feed you, they feed wolves and they feed eagles. How long are they going to last? Well, they're going on for so long that it's going to be unprofitable to do sheep farming. Then they end. But then the predatory problem is solved, even for the Storting. It is not possible to combine livestock and predatory farming. It's just like living in Ole Brumm's world: yes, thank you, both! I don't think that's a good idea. People older than us understood that. The stock of predators was reduced for the benefit of the food and beneficial animals. When predators were reduced, there could be larger populations of food and commercial animals. We're increasing predators' populations. It affects the food and beneficial animals. Do we? The majority of the population will. We just have to bend for that, but I'm going to vote against this predatory message, because I know predators and beneficial animals can't be combined. Because they don't eat potatoes, as I said. They eat other animals. And they must have food, otherwise they crack. And that's not going to be the Storting. Or do they want them to crack? No, they have to live their own lives. They will live on as if nothing has happened. I haven't mentioned Gaupe. But when the gap starts going into kindergarten, then there's danger on the road. When I was a child – and it was a long time ago – I never saw otter. Because before, you were hunting for oats. Today, the otter and root in the garbage bins drives people to find food. For the predators must have food, otherwise they will crack. How long will we continue to feed the predators? We're over! Then the problem is solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e697	For me, who comes from a municipality all the way out on the coast of North Troms, the report of robberies and its treatment has given me new evidence that Norway is a large country – a country with a variety of interests both among businessmen and others, a country where conditions can be dramatically different from local authorities, a country with intelligent and educated actors who are individually very conscious and very good at delivering their message. It makes great demands on us as politicians, and it imposes great demands on those responsible for administration. The Committee and its fractions have spent a lot of time listening to the report on predatory game. We've listened and we've talked to individuals and representatives of groups and organisations. We've got kilos of input -- summed up: a huge commitment. We've got a lot of strong input. One of the strongest and clearest feedbacks is about trust — or lack of trust. I refer to an example from the municipality of Balsfjord in Troms, a partial quote from a written recording: ‘In the past, the communities had a certain formal authority and real role in the management of predatory game. The municipalities and the local community are now essentially ‘set on the sidebar’ without any better management. The municipality of Balsfjord finds the situation both strange and unsustainable, and will stress that the municipality is willing to take responsibility provided that it follows the authority and resources to do so. The management of wild game seems to be characterised by mutual distrust between the central authorities represented by the Directorate for Nature Management and the local communities. There can be no doubt that this weakens the work of sound and efficient management.» In addition, it says: ‘If management is to be changed, this must be done through increased local and regional influence, not with increased concentration of power to the Directorate of Nature Management’. I have chosen to include this because it describes in an excellent way what we have heard from an overwhelming majority: It's a lack of trust. You don't speak the same language. You talk past each other. We do not even agree on basic assumptions, for example: assessment of the populations of predators locally. The Committee has now had difficulty in producing a document which will take account of different considerations. I believe that we have, even though some of us could clearly have wished for other conclusions in some areas. But this is about politics. One of the policy objectives is to find solutions. The Progress Party has, in its comments, sought to point out that some of the majority’s conclusions are policies that are not based on professional justification. Oh, yeah! What's up? There are professional reasons for most of the time, including in this case. The majority have taken responsibility for cutting through. The party of progress has chosen to ride further into the sunset on its populist padded horse, wounded and indignant under the motto: ‘I am a poor lonesome cowboy’. I want as much as I can, to ask the administration and all other actors to address this lack of trust. Put you down around the same table. Talk to each other. Talk to each other. Speak the same language and agree on some basic assumptions. It does not benefit either with money or with clear measurements if this is not possible. The County of Troms points out in a letter to the Directorate for Nature Management dated 6th a.m. inter alia: that in parts of Troms now there is a very high level of conflict, especially in relation to you, and that this will only increase in the future. The distribution of funds for prevention is highlighted. Specific prevention options are identified, but at the same time it should be noted that there is currently no funding available for them. The Directorate for Nature Management is asked to consider what can be done in this situation. I would like to encourage the Directorate of Nature Management to address this issue immediately with a view to finding a solution. So I'm going to stop by referring to the representative Korsberg, who said that the wolf does not read the staging message. I guess the Storting can agree on that quickly. But I'm really more concerned that the Progress Party acts as if they haven't read what the majority in the Committee is in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e753	Robbery management is a challenging topic. It is therefore important that a clear majority of the Committee has now shown the willingness to draw up a wide-ranging agreement which will take account of both the responsibilities of endangered species, the agricultural industry, domestic farming and the concerns of the population of large predatory areas. As broad a settlement as we see today, it helps to create the necessary peace around the future administration. I note that the main lines of the Government's proposal for a new policy on predatory game have been widely endorsed. This concerns the issue of the design of regions with their own wild game subjects, the design of concrete stock targets at national and regional level, new cutting regimes licensed in several species, new replacement model and increased emphasis on local knowledge related to the stock monitoring programme. In the mandate of the work on the Roofing Game Communication, Stortinget said that the Communication should be based on international environmental conventions. Therefore, thorough legal assessments of our international commitments have been carried out through the reporting process, including: at the University of Oslo. These have clear and unambiguous conclusions. For the Government, therefore, it has not been a topical issue whether we should have the different predatory game species in Norway, but where we should have them, and in how large populations to help ensure survival. For the Government, it is important that the majority of the Committee reaffirms indisputably our joint responsibility to preserve all parts of biodiversity, including the species that some would consider to be of concern. Wild plants and animals are part of our common natural heritage, and ensuring biodiversity is a prerequisite for sustainable development. There is no doubt that the issue of the management area of the breeding wolf has created involvement. The limits, with the comments of the Committee, have been slightly changed in relation to the Government's proposals. However, the new management area still affects relatively few sheep and grazing animals, and it does not affect domestic areas. On the part of the Government, it was important to demarcate the management area of the breeding wolf, so that a more targeted effort could be made in relation to the sheep population that suffers from animal diseases caused by wolf injuries every year. With the new management area defined by the Committee, this important objective of the Government remains feasible. The Committee has also endorsed the Government’s proposal for a more regional management of wild game species. Instead of the Government's proposal for six new administrative regions, the majority of the Committee has set up eight new regions based on current county boundaries. These will be followed up. Furthermore, the Committee unanimously supports the Government's proposal for a separate name in each region, which is responsible for the overall instrument for harm reduction, quota hunting, licence hunting and preventive and conflict mitigation measures. The Committee also unanimously supports the Government’s proposal that the names should be given the responsibility of delegating authority for the collection of pests to each municipality in individual cases. In order to ensure the survival of stocks while allowing management to be delegated to a regional level, it is important that minimum targets are set for each predatory game in each region and that this is practised in such a way that the denominators are initially only competent as long as the withdrawals do not fall below the targets set. This principle has been agreed by the entire Committee. I will follow up quickly on the request of the majority of the Committee on the allocation of national targets for the number of young people in new regions. I note that a majority in the Committee would like to see increased efforts to prevent and mitigate conflicts. This concerns both measures to prevent the loss of grazing animals, information work and knowledge-building related to the fear of wolves and bears. Furthermore, I have noticed that a majority of the committee wants a separate pot with increased appropriations for predatory wildlife communities to ensure a better local anchoring and participation. Robbery policy always creates great commitment and leads to strong opinions. I hope that the broad agreement now reached can give the necessary reassurance on the broad lines of policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e785	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e788	I am pleased that it has been possible for the Workers' Party and SV to agree with the government parties on the broad agreement that has been much discussed today, but that also involves some changes to the Government's proposal. One of the areas of economic activity. Where the government had suggested that one should not spend more money, but increase predatory pressure, the conciliators now say that more money needs to be spent, among other things. on prevention. I want an assurance from the Council of State that the Council of State and the Government are now following up all the points on which the settlement partners are agreed, including more money for prevention, so that we drop the rounds every year in the budgets by arguing about how much money we are going to spend. Otherwise, I just want to remind you, to the extent that there may be some misunderstanding about population, that the settlement partners have said there, about population and not minimum populations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e798	This government is aware that it must seek out other parties in order to have a majority of its policy in the Stortinget. We have achieved this through constructive cooperation in the Grand Duchy, linked to the predatory game policy this time. There is no doubt that what has been the result of this policy, which can create predictability in the years to come, will be followed up. As I said in my post: 'I note that a majority of the Committee wishes to increase its commitment to preventive and anti-conflict mitigation measures. This concerns both measures to prevent the loss of grazing animals, information work and knowledge building.» I have also noticed that the majority of the committee wants a separate pot with increased appropriations for predatory wildlife communities in order to ensure better local anchoring and participation. Now I can't guarantee that there won't be any discussion about the size of it in the budget, but this is a big message that the government parties have also joined, that we're going to invest more in these areas. It will be the basis of my further work as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e808	I am not going to interfere in the Council's response to the reply to Sylvia Brustad, but I just want to remind you that a proposal for money is being adopted today in a pot. Then I guess the government follows it up and has not only noticed it. The Council of State was concerned that the bulk of the population has contributed to the calmness of the notification. I think it's more correct, as we evaluate it, to say that you've tried to keep quiet in the whole game problem. Several of the representatives have said that the settlement has become better than the notification. Rahm has said what Brustad has said, and Onarheim has said it. Does the Council of State agree with that, and does the Council of State agree that the wolf zone has become better than that proposed in the notification? Then I just want to show you an example, that Engerdal is kept outside the wolf zone, strangely enough. At the same time, I would like to ask for an explanation of how the Council of State views this with border groups of wolves. What are the criteria for exactly that? Then I have to be allowed to bring up the proposals No. 1-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e821	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e824	I think it's a good deal that's on the table today – just so there's no doubt about it. This agreement is so good that it is clear that the Government intends to follow up both what is in the comments and, of course, what is in the decision. What is good is that we now move to eight administrative areas where stock targets are set. These objectives also give rise to more local ownership in relation to these predatory game species. If you cross the stock targets, you can use quota hunting and licence hunting, which is a natural way and also creates more cloudiness in the animals. We have reached a good settlement on the compensation arrangements. It has also ensured the important predatory species to be in Norway in relation to our international commitments. So Stortinget has taken responsibility and arrived at a comprehensive and good solution in a difficult case on this point as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e833	As the Council of State points out, this is a compromise. We have all taken and given, with our different starting points, and arrive at a result where SV is very happy with many things, not least that we now have increased efforts for prevention, that municipalities get money that they can spend on what they want to do in order to run prevention, and that one gets an Abruzzo Centre in Norway. It thought SV was very interesting and good. That we also get back yours and yours in Finnmark, is very nice. There is a problem that has arisen in the context of the conciliation, and that is animal crime. One has been shown to be deliberately engaged in illegal hunting. The parties to the agreement wish to increase their efforts on this matter. What concrete evidence does the Council of State have of his ability to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e840	Like the representative of Langeland, I think it is a good solution we have on the table today, as I also said in my previous reply, not least because it does not create any uncertainty that Norway also accepts its international obligations. I believe that with a smaller management area for the wolf, as it is now set up, it is easier to go in and make measures more targeted to mitigate the conflicts associated with perhaps the most controversial predator. In the case of the predator that takes out the most grazing animals in the field, the tiger, the Storting has reduced the number somewhat. In the case of illegal hunting for wolves, there is a case for the police and prosecution authorities. Ecocrime has said that it will focus more on monitoring environmental crime in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e847	The message says that there will be some annual young wolves. Everyone thinks it's been very important to get clear numbers here. Now there are three flocks, and in addition there are the cross-border flocks. There is very little about them in the majority voting, except that they will be managed in cooperation with Sweden. In Sweden, the number of wolves is very high. Border flocks will, of course, further increase predatory pressure. There will be a rapid imbalance between the region’s population targets – Burnde said that it was important to get these figures out quickly, so that you could start the administration – and the actual number of wolves. In other words, I would like to ask, what is the definition of a frontier group? How does this problem with cross-border flocks seem to be solved in these vulnerable areas? The issue was addressed earlier, but it was difficult to perceive a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e852	First of all, I cannot deny that I have made an observation during the debate. It has been emphasised how important it is for this predatory message to create predictability in the years to come. Now we don't need any new messages. Now this policy is firm. It should be interesting to see how this could possibly be solved in a tripartite government with the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party after the 2005 elections, because there is a rather large distance here. Then one would have to go into the theme that the representative Enger addresses in relation to the Swedish wolf policy. The Swedish Parliament has decided to have 200 wolves. Therefore, I had initially proposed an administrative area for wolves that would have made it easier to have a clearer Norwegian administration. But we're going to do what the Stortinget has now added, with three younger wolves on the Norwegian side. It is wolf that has its main place of residence on the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e857	For those of us who come from the areas of the country that are reasonably badly affected, it is with pleasure that I welcome the settlement that exists today, both in relation to larger local management, better compensation arrangements, clearer stockpiles and what is now being done in relation to wolves. I'm glad the Minister for the Environment says it's a good deal. But does the Minister for the Environment also agree that the changes now proposed in the Grand Duchy contribute to further mitigating the conflict, in addition to the Government's proposals, and that these also increasingly safeguard agricultural opportunities in the vulnerable areas and create understanding and acceptance of the population of predatory policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e862	First, I have to say that I'm a little surprised at the enormous interest that it is linked to me putting characters on the deal that exists here, and possibly on what the different parties believe and have meant in Stortinget. What I said in my reply to the representative Langeland is that I think it's a good deal that's on the table, and that all parties have stretched out. I think it has a self-esteem that it's a broad deal. It makes this predictable, and the batches cannot run away from it when the first problem arises. Often on Wednesdays I am answering questions about the wolf who has eaten sheep, and it is from representatives of parties who are in favour of it being a wolf in Norway. It should not be very surprising that there is any damage in connection with having predatory game. But it's also part of biodiversity. Gaupa belongs in Norway. Jerven belongs in Norway. It makes queens, and some wolves, or three younger ones, belong also on the Norwegian side. This is a good deal, a broad deal with a self-esteem. But it was also a good suggestion the government came to the Stortinget. If it had not been a good proposal, we would not have had a broad settlement either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e871	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e875	St.meld. No 15 for 2003–04, on predatory game in Norwegian nature, has been of great interest to many, and opinions for or against predators have been different, while others have had no particular point of view. Often, opinions have been based on where you live, including: whether you live inside or outside the so-called zone. Also family relationships, whether it's children, and nutritional bases have played out as several external things that have influenced one's view. Opinions have often been strong and emotional. Those who are critical of too many predators, or come within or just outside a zone, are afraid that their choice of residence must be reconsidered. I'll call this message and the result of the nearest disaster for parts of Building Norway. There's negative district policy at its worst. The basis of activity disappears. Fear is increasing, and the quality of life is greatly reduced. I believe that many are also creating negative predatory policies by the fact that a relatively small area must bear the burden on the big community that imposes on them. In the case of the proposed zone, you can discuss forever where it is going to be and how big. Crazy is going to be it anyway. If you believe or believe that predators – read the wolf – will stay within these so-called limits, you have a belief that cannot be measured. The wolf stays within this area just as long as he wants. It depends, among other things, on: the size of the mattress, the search for other wolves, whether it is young or old, etc. When you know at the same time that a wolf can move up to 200 km in a day, distances are not a problem. It goes without saying that when there is no more sheep or buffalo or elk or deer to eat within the zone, it naturally seeks out to find more food, if none of the zone trailers want to feed it somehow. You can also ask yourself the question of how to figure out the size of the zone, and how and why some municipalities did not join. I note that the rapporteurs in municipalities who have not joined are also sceptical about the border crossing. Exciting, with negative signs, it will at least be to see how long the wolf will be where the majority of politicians today have decided. Don't think me and the Progress Party that the wolf cares at least. For those who have buffs either as principal or secondary income, today too will be a disaster in the long term. Replacement schemes or prevention measures cannot in any way replace the losses incurred by individual users. In addition, it is not due to compensation, for example: with sheep. On the other hand, there is faith in producing something that society needs and that also helps to keep the districts and the outsmart in claim. The housing pattern also depends on a good buff team. The income from this helps to maintain the population by obtaining income that can live from its production. In the Municipal Report of 26 February 2004 we can read about a farmer who lost 100 of his 500 sheep last year. He lies within the proposed son. How many more sheep he'll be able to lose gradually is hard to predict. But at least one thing is certain: it will not be fewer! And what about the future for him and like-minded people? Another industry that District Norway has invested more and more in is hunting and natural experiences. You've invested in nature, in cabins, and you've organized yourself together. This has gradually become a relatively good recreational activity for some. But when e.g. The elk and the deer are eaten – what then? The same can be said of beekeeping and the production of honey. It does not help with the replacements alone. If one is to have living areas, one must be able to have permission and opportunity to reap from what nature can provide. I also mentioned the word ‘quality of life’ earlier in my article. By this much can be understood, among other things. It's that living where you want, with your family, and thus allowing the children to play safely outside. With a predatory zone, it would be rather doubtful if you could do it in the future. There are many examples. In the Glåmdalen newspaper on 8 May we can read about a wolf 300 meters from a kindergarten, and an hour later the same wolf walked to say through the municipality center, and at night took the sheep as a bait on the outcrop in the neighbouring municipality of Grue. The one of you who manages to reassure young children's parents in this particular area, and not least convince them that the wolf can't be dangerous to their children, has a big task. Anyone who does not realize that the wolf can create fear should take a trip to these areas, which have experienced and will experience this. The experience will be guaranteed to be great. In another pagan newspaper, we could read about an 11 - year - old girl who rode to school and met wolves. Many children in the district have the same school route. Overall, this is a message that has little good district policy in itself, and the quality of life of many is greatly reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e903	A year ago, St.meld was. No 12 for 2002-2003, on animal husbandry and welfare, dealt with here in the Storting. That Communication also contains a chapter entitled ‘Society’s View of Nature and the Environment. In this chapter, a new policy on predators was mentioned. In connection with this communication, too, there was a debate, with strong opinions. The Committee said the following at Innst: S. No 226 for 2002-2003: ‘The Committee points out that the notification sets out several measures to limit the loss of sheep on pasture as a result of attacks by wild game. The Committee has heard during the hearings that this is an area in which there is considerable disagreement. During the consultations, the Committee has obtained information on several of the measures mentioned in the notification, including: The Committee points out that during the hearings both the Norwegian Farmers' Association and the Norwegian Farmers' Associations and the Sau- and Geitäflslagen have been negative to the measures proposed in the Communication, while the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association and other nature conservation organisations have been positive.The Committee welcomes the preventive measures proposed in the Communication such as the use of fences, watchdogs and guessing, and considers that the authorities and industry must continue to participate in and finance such test projects. In this context, the Committee points to the project of electric bells that will be tested in the summer of 2003.The Committee would point out that animal protection must be an important element of predator management.» This was entirely in agreement with the Business Committee, but then we split up. The majority of the Committee chose to recommend that questions relating to the management of wild game and grazing animals be considered in the context and that all aspects of this matter should be addressed in the context of the communication we are dealing with today. It was already notified. The opinions that we were presented at the hearings in the Environment Committee have changed my mind. In particular, the industry has become more positive in trying out new prevention measures, and this is good. In view of the postponement of the Business Committee and the Stortinget last year, we from the Workers' Party have tried to follow-up animal protection in the context of the processing of this biggest report. Conflicts with grazing animals and predators are not an unknown phenomenon around the world, and many countries have experience in various prevention measures. The challenge is that not all measures are appropriate in all areas. With us are the costs of e.g. guessing higher than in other parts of the world, which has led to many being negative to such a measure. However, other prevention measures that have been implemented have had a positive impact, but have not been adequately tested. However, during its hearing a year ago, the Committee noted that the positions to test out the measures were not always as positive. This was a problem, and I think it's still a problem. If we are to find effective prevention measures, everyone must be willing to participate in pilot schemes. Resources must be put in place by industry as well as by administrations to produce serious trials. A compensation scheme that covers only losses and does not provide incentives for prevention is not a good measure of animal protection. So we have to have a combination of both of these along the way. The loss of sheep on the equestrian pasture as a result of disease and other accidents is described extensively in the magnificence report on animal husbandry and animal welfare. The reason is that there are relatively many animals dying during the summer. According to St.meld. No 12, the Animal Safety Notice, was released in 2001. Two million sheep on pasture. Of these, 117,281 were lost. 5.8 pst. by the crew. Most of these were lambs. As a result, compensation was paid for approx. 30000 sheep/lames due to predatory game. The reported figure was, of course, slightly higher. Why are the reactions so strong in the case of animals taken by predators, in relation to animals that die in other ways on the field? I think it's due to two relationships. One is the state in which you find the animal, which makes your feelings so strong. In addition, there are sometimes many animals in the same flock. This creates feelings and leads to reactions. The second is that there are predators in some areas of the country, and not in others. Everyone can understand the despair of the farmer who finds dead animals. Everyone agrees that we need to put in place measures to minimise such losses. This is why both industry and authorities need to continue their efforts in the field of prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e931	The right has confirmed, both through its magnification programme and through the Sem declaration, that the party wants the presence of predatory game in Norway, i.e. that we are behind the goal of ensuring that we have viable populations of the five great predators in this country: wolf, yerv, gaupe, bear and queen. Then there will be no question about, but how best to manage these. Of course, the right is behind the message and the important principle, or two-fold objective, that viable farming activities should be possible, including in areas of predatory game. The right-wing opinion is that the report of robbers and the settlement facilitates that we can reconcile these two objectives. It has been a general objective to lower the level of conflict with regard to predatory game issues. For this reason, the Committee's consideration has been a relatively long process, which has allowed many parties to express their views. I am pleased that there is now a broad majority who are behind the position on this matter. A broad settlement ensures predictability in the off-road industries and among the rest of the population. I think the position that now exists shows that the majority of the committee has been responsive to many of the recordings that have occurred during the process. In a case with so many different opinions, usually across party groups, there needs to be something more to make the individual 100 pst. satisfied with the result. But I believe that the agreement that now exists should be a direction that most people can live with. I want to highlight some lines in what's available. The first is that, through this treatment, we have set specific targets for the individual predatory game, and these are designed to avoid predators in the most sensitive areas for grazing animals, among others. in the West. The second main line concerns the issue of the fear of predators. The representative Knut Werner Hansen pointed out that Norway is a large country. As a rogalending with no particular experience with these predatory questions, I have had a very humble approach to the matter, and I am very impressed by the commitment that has been shown from several sides, whether it is spoken hotly for the presence of predators in Norwegian nature or the opposite. The fear is specific in areas where the wolf is present and is absolutely real to the person who experiences it. I understand that people who experience fear of predators are provoked to be met with: what you need is more information. This does not mean that we should not both research and inform about the realities of predators, but I think it is positive that the majority both signal a desire to clarify the consequences of living with predators in the vicinity, and that each region is given the opportunity to spend money locally in relation to particularly heavily underprivileged areas, and that they are set free in terms of how the money can best be spent. It involves action in relation to having respect for human fear of predators, and especially wolves. In this way, we also show that here we are taking seriously the input we have received into the process of how wolves affect the population and community. The third line concerns the replacement scheme. We must ensure that compensation schemes are in place to cover losses on domestic animals, but at the same time provide an incentive for preventive measures or for the conversion of agricultural production. This will be borne in mind by the majority proposal which is largely in line with the Government's proposals. It is also positive that a pot of money is proposed for municipalities that have a particularly high predatory load, and that these, as I said, can be used freely for, among other things. anti-conflict mitigation measures. In this way, each municipality will also be able to contribute with local solutions and ensure a greater anchoring in predatory game issues. The fourth line is to ensure a regional administration. Through the regional administrative regions that are now being determined to follow the county boundaries, the possibilities for reaching agreement on predatory game solutions are better whether they are management or stocking targets. These regional samples will be run by elected representatives, and they will also have the possibility to delegate tasks and powers to local authorities if they function properly within the region concerned. I believe that local and regional responsibility in this way is among the best success criteria in reducing the level of conflict in difficult cases. In this context, I would also like to say that it is a strength that the management of the wolf is also to be done at regional level. I'm glad that the Ministry of the Environment will be the appeals authority for this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e954	The setting is a compromise that greatly improves the government's proposed predatory policy in almost all areas. It is true that today's major predatory policy, with which people and animals must live, is not the policy that anyone might have to believe in in a minority. Therefore, it has been important for the Workers' Party to have the most possible impact on what is agreed. We assume that the government and government follow the intention, comments and decisions of the majority. We have now experienced and have experience in an ongoing struggle for interpretation and replay of today's predatory policy in the practical everyday life. A two-part goal of caring for a viable strain of predators, while the field is to be used by people and fairy for various purposes, is quite demanding. There is a clear conflict here today. If the conflict should be kept as small as possible, do not force on the destination of the predators to be larger than required. There has also been a strong improvement here. The wolf is a special challenge in a country like Norway, where the field is used differently from our neighbouring country. Norway now assumes a responsibility for having its own wolf tribe. It supports the Workers' Party. I still believe, regardless of the interpretation of the Berne Convention, that there is a basis for Norway to enter into negotiations in the future on the joint international management of a genetically common wolf tribe, which we have in the north. When a statement in the setting that the border group cannot be added to Norwegian targets does not mean that we must end up with more than three annual juveniles, which are the target population at least over a certain period of time. If we are to have respect for the predatory policy that we are adopting today and for the administration, we must now facilitate the rapid and effective extraction of pests. One must, unlike today, give quick cutting-offs on the wolf, except for the management areas, which are guilty of damage. For what has happened until now is that so-called striped animals have been allowed to roam in sheep flocks etc. It is necessary to bet on the prevention of damage as far as possible. But it has proved very difficult. Obviously, we should not have an exaggerated expectation of what the result would be. However, a system in which the administrative regions have their own pot for distribution to the municipalities will require local authorities, with the good intentions they have, to do what can be done to find their own preventive measures, as long as one above the Ministry of the Environment’s budget allows money to do so. This agreement provides for a much better regional breakdown. Three counties now stand as separate regions. What I think is good, because here's the challenge so big that it's necessary. It's important that we get regional predatory wildlife subjects, which are given important responsibilities, such as the quota for substituting damage management for all species, the quota area for gaupe and the quota area for the hunting of yaws, bears and wolves. When importing business organisations and other relevant organisations, this is a good basis for conflict mitigation. When selecting and setting up the county council, while the department is doing the final stunning, one must assume that the Ministry of the Environment establishes a practice of following the setting if there are no special reasons for doing anything else. The system, as it is now for file monitoring, will also be conflict-absorbing. Local knowledge shall be used, local mountain surveillance, mountain services in Northern Norway and nature conservation. Regional wildlife must have an important role to play here. It is also worth stressing a comment from a joint committee that there must be restrictive management and rapid harvesting of predators when they enter the wild areas and cause damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e977	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President notes that we must have a good debate, because 24 speakers have signed up on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e982	The treatment of the predatory message has resulted in a broad commitment, and committee members and other policy makers have been given a lack of information with a great deal of tension. The exposure of many parties and interests includes: are related to the number of predators we are going to have, reliable registration of predators, surveillance, preventive measures and the design of a precise compensation scheme. I would like to thank the many people who have taken contact. We have also experienced being asked for tuna, where we have gained insight into the many challenges the owners of the grazing animals have, both on a weekday and a weekend basis. We have taken care of the information we have received from the livestock owners. Otherwise, we would have done a big wrong. At the same time, we have a responsibility to facilitate the possession of predators in accordance with international agreements and conventions. The two-part objective that the management of predators should take into account the desire to have living communities and active activities shall be an overriding objective. That includes, inter alia: that rapid removal of pests can be carried out as a necessary and effective preventive measure to reduce the loss of grazing animals. Losses of grazing animals due to predatory measures are experienced as hurt and painful both human and economic. I hope it is clear that we have confidence in the many farmers who do a faithful service as animal keepers, and who at the same time help to maintain both pastures, cultural landscapes and seater volleys. Many livestock keepers have been eightfold for the changes in the compensation scheme. They've known on a raging eight that missing financial compensation for the loss of grazing animals would come to the top of the burden of loss of animals. I am pleased to stress that the current compensation scheme should be maintained unchanged and unabated until the Storting can deal with the matter of how a future compensation scheme should be designed. In time, predatory policies must be practised to ensure good contact and trust between the owners of the grazing animals and the administrative bodies. Preventing the loss of grazing animals is a central element of the setting. As a result, budget resources shall be assigned to a separate line item to be administered by the regional authorities. These funds may again be made available by the municipalities. This shows that we have confidence that local and regional authorities who know the local needs are capable of taking increased responsibilities and managing money to implement measures to reduce the loss of grazing animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e997	Robbery policy is about so much more than just predators. For many it is their livelihood, their love for nature. For sheep farmers, beekeepers and others engaged in similar activities, predators have become part of the daily uncertainty. Will you take the sheep, the wolf take the reindeer or the bear rage the hives? This is an uncertainty that politicians must take seriously, and that is what we are now trying to do through this broad agreement, which not only preserves business but also the fact that predators are and must be part of Norwegian nature and animal life. We believe that it must be possible to think about both of these at once. That's why a two-part objective is important to us, that we say yes to both agriculture and predators in the same area. Because of good arrangements we adopt today, this will be possible to continue. What is perhaps the most difficult in this matter is all the interpersonal aspects that have emerged, from the time the communication was submitted and until today. It is clear that we shall take seriously that a mother will not send her children on a mushroom trip, or that a nursery cannot use the forest to pick berries in fear of meeting the wolf. It helps little with all the world's good figures that the wolf rarely attacks people, when young children, parents and grandparents feel fear and fear. We've now tried to stamp this out. We're expanding the area where the wolf can travel, and we're applying a more efficient pest killing system. The exposure to this matter has been enormous. It's great to see that so many people engage in a matter they believe in and will fight for. As politicians, we've listened to and discussed all the recordings we've got, and we've been trying to find solutions that unite rather than split. We only got to that because a broad majority of the Storting went together to find the best solutions in one otherwise very difficult case. From now on, we are committed to a greater local involvement in the predatory game policy and a better compensation scheme for those municipalities that are particularly hard hit in this field. The Norwegian pop group Hellbillies sings: ‘Read that the wolf can settle in HolIt gets the ‘kji wolf allowed to do in Ål and Gol.But kiss they might think that the wolf could see in the loin here the municipality border goes’ Some people have chosen to joke about this agreement that is being treated today, because the wolf cannot see where the zone is going. To that it is to say that for those that apply, this frame is serious and no joke. That's why it's so important for the Workers' Party to be part of this broad agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1021	After several months and weeks of towing, debates and difficult negotiations, the Stortinget will today define predatory policies in the years to come. Although much was also good in the Government's proposal, not least that it opens up licensing and quota hunting once the stock targets are reached, I will not hide that I have disagreed with the Government's proposals on several points. From my point of view, it would have been best if we did not have a breeding wolf in Norway. It is not reasonable to claim that the wolf is a endangered animal species. In any case, we would still get a lot of wolf over from Sweden, which has decided to increase its population to 200 animals. However, there has never been any possibility of having a majority in favour of the Stortinget. In a case like this, where divisions and disagreements in the matter characterize most parties, one must choose a form of work that does not do the best for the good enemy. If you hold to your primary position of ‘the bitter end’, you only get to play yourself beyond the side line. For me, it has therefore been important to take an active part in the political processes up to today's debate in order to try to influence what is going to be the end result, in order to ensure a result that, after all, is to live with. There are several things to rejoice about: the government did not get through for its proposal to the wolf zone. Instead, the wolf zone is extended so that the load associated with the presence of the wolf is divided into several. This means that the wolf can establish itself, for example. in Nordmarka. I think that's good. Central politicians in Oslo have also said that they would like to welcome the wolf. A stocking target is set for the number of family groups of wolves on wood. The government proposed ‘some family groups’ without any clearly defined limitation upwards. This could at least be misused quickly by the bureaucracy of predator management. While the Government proposed that the Directorate for Nature Management should be responsible for the wolf, the agreement states that the wolf should also be managed regionally. This is good. Furthermore, there is a clear obligation to investigate a legal wording extending the right of emergency protection to attacks on dogs. This is good. Furthermore, compensation shall be granted to the landowner for lost hunting income where the wolf settles, in the form that the country enters and pays rent to the landowner for that area. This is also good. At all, there are several things here to enjoy that have gone in the right direction, and the final result shows that it is useful to influence. That's why I'm going to vote for the broad agreement that underlies today's debate, although it's still something I could think of differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1032	One of the things I think is the basis for us having such a high level of conflict in the case of predators is what is about trust. I think today we have a formidable breach of trust between the administration and the local population. We have a responsibility to rectify that, and I am very pleased that the message states that you should now have more confidence and faith in those who live and live in those areas where you have predators. Time and again, I experience that people from the Directorate of Nature Management and people from the County Environmental Protection Department don't believe in the local population at all when they tell me about the challenges they have. We can't have it like that. We just can't have it like that, because the local population is essentially representing the truth and not the untrue. I think that if you push decisions over the heads of the local population, which are perceived to be grossly unreasonable, you're doomed to failure in the long term. It is condemned to fail in the long term if there is an unreasoning downside of the local population. Therefore, after this decision is taken here today at Stortinget, the administration must take control and realize that their most important task is to play with the people who have predatory problems, and not go around with a crooked smile and believe that they present falsehoods. There is at least a clear opinion I have, who have lived and lived in such areas for many years and met the core people who are occupied with both predators, of buffaloes and of having living settlements. Then we can't have a government with people who come from the city and act in such an arrogant way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1039	The President would point out that ‘stretching down the people’s heads’ may not be a parliamentary expression, but at least it underlined the opinion of the speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1042	In the Christian People's Party's group, this has been a tough but open and necessary debate. The result the Stortinget is invited to adopt now, is an extensive compromise, which many in our group who have been sceptical about it will stand behind. A premise for this connection is simply the following: the majority of the committee emphasises the need for a more effective killing of pests. Getting a more damage-based administration thinks I'm an important key to understanding the population. In the case of the compensation scheme, I understand that the present scheme is valid until further notice. The financing of compensation shall continue to go beyond the Ministry of the Environment's budget. This is important and basically right. It is the Ministry of the Environment that imposes obligations, etc. the agricultural industry and the reindeer industry to tolerate the burden on predators. That is why the Ministry of the Environment must also pay for that order. In this way, the cost of keeping predators is visible. I am pleased that the majority is asking for an extension of the emergency right. We'll get back to this after it's been distributed, as it says in the setting. But with a more open emergency right, we would have been able to avoid some of the conflicts that we have today. So leave it a signal to the work to be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1056	This debate has given rise to three issues which are particularly central. All three are recognized by the fact that it's about trust. It is about reducing the level of conflict. It is imperative to achieve overall political results, and it is also imperative to reduce the pressure on those who have the greatest burden and who will have to face the greatest burden. There is also reason to remember that people have a nuanced attitude to these issues. It is referred to the father of the 11-year-old from Våler who met the wolf the other day, and who says to the Evening Post: ‘I am for us to have predators in Norway.’ Yes, the youngest are perhaps the most nuanced. Anne Marie Blix, seventh grade from Elverum on a visit to Stortinget the other day, says that the wolf should not be killed until they have damaged or are at risk. As politicians, we really have a maritime responsibility to create broad solutions and not just to leave the political arena to shriek and shriek and what I would call political impotence. For the Workers' Party, it has therefore been important to bring about the changes that are now in this agreement, all of which are about building trust. The continued two-part objective is to build trust. That is, it should be possible to farm in predatory areas. Increased efforts on prevention, increased efforts on replacement and compensation are aimed at building trust and understanding. In order not to forget what I think must be a supporter of this agreement: the local involvement and the local administration that is now being outlined is the main step towards greater acceptance, understanding and trust in relation to the set of rules that are actually to be managed. The wolf management zone also deals in many ways with contributing to increased trust and building trust. It's distributing the load. These zones are not a signal to the wolves flying around. Neither the Swedish border nor the zones can be particularly suitable to give a signal to the wolf, but that is our hope, and there I think the representative Inge Ryan had a good point, that the administration must become aware of where the boundaries are going, and that one is aware of how the management zones are to be practised. There are these, which I will not call wolves, in the administration that are now sitting on important tools to implement predatory policies, which must be conscious of the policies and boundaries that are now being drawn. Also, the good plans you have in relation to the Robbery Centre in Trysil and the Centre in Kongsvinger are confidence building measures. This is a step in the important and correct direction. The key points of this debate are only at risk of contributing to more fear, less policy and, ultimately, less trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1067	We have undertaken international obligations to take care of and increase the populations of the four large predators in Norwegian nature. But independently of the Berne Convention and other international agreements, I believe that we have a moral responsibility as politicians to ensure that predators are not eradicated. We have a management responsibility towards Norwegian nature that needs to be seen from a generation perspective. I also believe that it is totally unacceptable to shift responsibility to other countries, whether it is Russia, Sweden or Finland. If everyone had managed the predators as badly as we did in the 1900s, there wouldn't have been anything special again either of the wolf or bear in Russia, or for that matter tigers in India. Rich, industrialised countries cannot leave poor agricultural countries to manage predators alone. The wolves are not more dangerous to poor farmers in the Transylvanian Alps than to Bærum citizens. The fact that the centre party is against the wolf is not unexpected. But there are some paradoxes in this. It's paradoxical that the Center Party thinks it's a responsibility for Russian farmers to manage the wolf. It's a paradox that they're so passionate about global environmental protection issues, but when it comes to the local, they go against it. This is the third report from the Stortinget in a few years. The last time was the spring of 1997. I hope that the agreement that we are now getting will help to calm down around predator management. The agreement has become so good that there is reason to be optimistic in this regard. I'm optimistic about lowering the level of conflict. As it is today, it is too high. The attitude adds up to greater local participation, and I think that will help us reduce the level of conflict. But if we are to succeed in lowering the level of conflict, there must be agreement on the size of the populations. I am pleased that the Committee proposes that animal owners and other local actors be more directly involved in stock monitoring. I think it'll give an even better stock monitoring. I am also pleased that the Workers' Party has obtained a majority in order not to put a financial ceiling on the payments for prevention and compensation. The major community must take financial responsibility for its predatory policy. Regardless of the costs incurred each year, it cannot be the individual sheep farmer or the individual community that has to take financial responsibility. That's what the big community has to take. I have a great hope that today's report on predators, and the agreement that is now being concluded, is so good in character that it will bring peace around predatory policies in Norway for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1083	There is no doubt that the temperature of the debate around the report of predators has been high, and I think in essence we shall be happy that in this room we can discuss the message in a civilised way without the corresponding temperature. The representative of Korsberg says he feels like a lonely wolf. I think the wolf can be happy for that! The wolf’s policy of progress is not much to rejoice about – for the wolf. But in Trondelag it is not the wolf that has created the most debate, but the other predators. Last spring I was on a study trip in Abruzzo, Italy, and then with my own eyes. how flocks of dogs went with the sheep and gave them protection from predators. In the bear area of Lierne, a farmer started to gow the sheep with dogs a few years ago. Many are the ones who have shook their heads over the dogs. But I'm glad that someone has actually taken the burden of going ahead, also here in Norway, because it has actually been a burden for the farmers who have participated in the project, among others. because of allegations that dogs have caused greater damage to herds nearby. I think dogs are a good example of how to prevent predator damage, and that illustrates the need for this to be reflected in the new compensation scheme. Back to the noise level in the debate: I have great respect for those who live and work in areas with a lot of predators. I admire those small users who endure, despite the fact that the government's agricultural policy – and through changing governments – has gone to force greater use and fewer farmers. I believe that much of the commitment to the predatory debate is derived from a much more general and fundamental frustration over the treatment of Norwegian-District Society and the treatment of Norwegian agriculture by the large community in particular. Although we are now concluding the predatory debate with a broad political settlement, which may hopefully lead to a time to the next round, we are in the near end of the more general debate on Norwegian agriculture and rural policy in the future. In my opinion, the debate on the rapprochement of rural policy instruments by the EEA Agreement and an emerging debate on Norwegian EU membership are far more crucial to whether it will continue to live and live in District Norway than if we now have three wolves and a few more of the other predators in Norwegian nature, where they naturally belong – as opposed to the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1096	The debate on predators engages many and is ongoing. I'm not going to help extend this debate that much, but with my stand in District Norway and close to these problems, I'm going to come up with some considerations. I haven't heard of a single farmer or anyone living in the districts who wants to eradicate all predators, but they're asking that the populations become so that it's also possible to run livestock production in these districts, and that people don't have to live in fear of predators lurking around the houses, inside the kindergartens or in the schoolyards. Many have suffered great losses of grazing animals — they have been taken from predators. This concerns the loss of income and the loss of good animals that have been bred after extensive work. No compensation mechanism can compensate for all the loss suffered by users in such situations. I hear that someone thinks that users look too bad after their animals, but I will refute this. Farmers constantly care for their animals very well, but everyone must understand that it is not possible to care for several hundred grazing animals in large areas all the time. Where it is possible to maintain agricultural activities in predatory areas, predatory stock must be kept under control and it must be possible to react rapidly when predators cause damage to livestock. Therefore, there has to be more local control of this. This will undoubtedly be anti-conflict and trustworthy. I think population numbers are important, but it is also important to follow developments closely, so that population numbers are followed up in practice, and it is continuously assessed whether this works, and whether the extraction is large enough. Therefore, it is important that the Storting review the arrangements after a relatively short period of time and, if necessary, make adjustments. Let me say that I'm glad that this case didn't just become a wolf case, as it might look. In some areas, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you This affects many districts in a very unfortunate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1113	It is the responsibility of the whole country to take care of the predatory game, while ensuring a viable agriculture is the responsibility of the whole country. That's why, as I see it, a force for both predatory game and agriculture that a broad compromise has been reached, predatory. Anyway, I think it's tricking myself into thinking that the temperature in the predatory game debate is going to be completely normal with this compromise, but it helps well. What's very good is that we now get a better and more real local participation, and that Uppland becomes a separate administrative region. It is good that predators are held responsible for allowances, contingent damage and quota hunting. There is every reason to take note of what the majority of the committee says: ‘The majority therefore ask the Government to take action to ensure a better level of trust between public administration, community, land users and relevant organisations.’ I am very pleased that much of it a unanimous assembly in Uppland asked for changes to the Government's proposal, has been given room in the robberies settlement. But nevertheless, there are a few relationships that should be involved in the further follow-up by the Government. First, no one fully knows how many predators there are in this country. Knowledge of stock sizes is therefore important for the level of conflict. It is therefore very important that the research communities, together with local authorities and knowledge professionals, improve interaction and understanding. The second is the compensation scheme. Now the government is going to come back to Stortinget with a separate case about this, so until further notice, the existing compensation scheme will apply. However, it is important that the compensation scheme is not burdened with agricultural conversion and food and district resources available to municipalities, so that there is no new conflict. It is therefore important that prevention, conversion and replacement measures are the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment alone. All in all, I think there is reason to say that it is not a bad day for Uppland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1137	As usual, the government is doing most of the right thing when it comes to environmental policy. Man’s natural environment is a valuable heritage that few would be apart. It also gives us a caretaker responsibility. The colorful diversity that explodes against us on our journeys and through the TV screen gives us a human dimension of our own. It also literally gives us a colorful community. Not least, our children's wide-open and feathered eyes in front of the TV screen are proof of this. Would we be this diversity besides? There are some, among others. The Center Party and the Advance Party, who claim we don't need the predators. It has been said in this debate: we do not need them! And if we say we don't need them, then of course we don't need the elephants in Africa, the big cats or the big monkeys. Of course, we cannot isolate Norway. We have a common management responsibility with the whole world. If we mean something about nature being important, we cannot separate those elements of nature that must at any time be contrary to human business interests. That there is a green party, the Centre Party – self-appointed green, even a green symbol in its logo – that conveys these thoughts, is more than remarkable. Humans use management criteria and need criteria that go beyond material. Yeah, that's actually what distinguishes us from animals, that we have need criteria that we define beyond material. That's the difference between us and the animals. So to the fear that, of course, has come to light correctly in this debate. It is not surprising that someone has to pay a higher price at any time than others, and it is up to us as politicians to protect those who have to pay the price, as best they can. The government has that, among other things. made by initially entering a wolf zone confined to the area east of Glomma. There was a plan I thought was right, not least because I have an original view of the wolf, which genetically might be in a different class than the other predators. After all, we have a domesticated wolf in every four homes, so I think it was a nice delimitation. But in the compromise that arose, we had to take that balance. Then I am happy to say that Oslo City Councillor has said that in Oslo the wolf is welcome, and then we also meet the debate that goes on that in Oslo, Bærum and Asker we know best what others have to do. Now we're going to take it care of ourselves. So in the end, the replacement piece becomes very important, and it needs to be in place to get the plan that the government has invited to adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1152	It's not the elephant, but naturally the wolf that has become a combat symbol in the robber's debates over the last few years. One party claims that the wolf does not represent any danger to humans. The other side says it has its explanation that the wolf has been eradicated in the last hundred years. Anyway, the last one was a prerequisite to be able to operate the kind of agriculture in the East that we know so well, and which was the whole foundation of the landscape I think most will remember, and still appreciate. The marine keys, which belong to a fire-old group, are recanting at the origin of the land plants, still clinging firmly to the few used pastures we have left in this area. Two of these plants are on the list of the Berne Convention. The wolf is part of biodiversity, but also a threat to our remaining pastures, if domestic animals are displaced for the benefit of the species. I share the opinion that the Norwegian wolf tribe is not threatened. It is part of the large northern European wolf family operating in Norway in the periphery of its core area. I wonder if it is right that the wolf should have all this attention, while at the same time we have a red list that is not up to date, and a species database that is not yet complete. There are species that have been identified to be eradicated without particular attention being paid. What about the mountain reefs, for which we as a mountain nation must have a special responsibility? The situation is precarious, but what do we afford by means to preserve it, in relation to the great predators? We cannot prevent the wolf from coming in from Sweden. The most important thing now must be to build trust among the local population who have wolves in their neighbourhood — a trust that is anchored in a credible administration. When the Storting determines a number for a species, it should be to be trusted. Local anchoring in the stock records must be a prerequisite. There may be uncertainty here when the majority refers to national stock targets as follows: ‘In the case of the wolf border groups, the majority consider that they need to be managed in cooperation with Sweden,...’» I agree with this, but then it ends with: ‘... and may not be added to a Norwegian target.’; The wolf along the border with Sweden uses areas far into Norwegian soil as its dining room. Many therefore feel that these wolves must be included in the national target for the species. I note that a majority in this Chamber also want wolf in my home municipality Enebakk. It's already there! It's a paradox that we want to have the wolf in our densely populated areas, when we know that the proper wolf thrives best without humans in its close surroundings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1177	Given the assumptions that are in this hall, we've got a very good setting. I'm not hiding that Hedmark Right has an annual meeting decision that is about to say no to the breeding wolf in Norway. We certainly believe that we will get wolves in buckets and buckets, I would have almost said, by the neighbourhood we have to Sweden, but at the same time I note that this is not the opinion of the large majority. Of course, I don't want to go against the broad agreement that we've been able to; I want to give credit to the commitment that has been here. I don't think we would have gotten this if it hadn't been for the strong commitment of those who are often called a little contemptible lobbyists. I don't think we would have gotten this if we hadn't had a government council that had an open attitude towards the Stortinget, and I don't think we would have gotten it if we hadn't had a case rapporteur who had the ability to work together during the handling of the case in Stortinget. There have been many things that have been said today, many great words. A few batches – which should at least not have a short way to government offices – have been particularly important in their use of words. I just want to make it clear that if the policy of the Advance Party on agriculture, for example, at NOK 3.5 billion had been implemented, it would not have been necessary to discuss predatory policies in this country. Because then there would be no districts to live in at all. The Progress Party has the same credibility in regional and predator policy as the Swedish Defence Policy. They cut about the same amount. Apart from that, almost all parties have been in government in the last ten years where this policy has been pursued. So it turns out that no parties, even those who use very big words, are willing to put this matter very high on the agenda when they are in position themselves. There is no doubt that this has been a matter that has largely set up against land. Having the shoe on and where it is printed is much more uncomfortable than having it at a distance, and therefore I think it is not least psychologically good that Oslo and Akershus – Asker and Bærum – have joined the predatory zones, so that it can no longer be claimed that urban communities are pushing predatory policies on an unwilling rural population. I don't think one should ignore the fact that it can have the effect – for those of us who have stumbled with it – that when the first powder part of the Holmenkol lock is taken, the dimension of predatory policies will be different. I think we've now come into a situation where it can be real, but I'm not so sure if it's going to change on the broad majority we've now received.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1188	In my three-minute post, I will focus on the wolf. I don't think history repeats itself, but I actually think it's possible to learn something from history. Based on the history of Norway, it's possible to mean something about wolves. History and church books can tell of unruly clashes between people and wolf flocks, even with tragic results. People in rural areas have seen good competition for the forest dining room. Elk calves are the wolf's delicacy, and our senses understood that the moose population was threatened. Sheep, cows, and horses grazing were often victims of hungry wolf flocks. This came into conflict with Norway’s main activity at the time, the agricultural industry. People learned the following: that wolves and people did not go together, and that wolves and domestic animals did not go together. That's why they took the consequences, and they wiped out the wolf. The agricultural industry does not have the same position in Norway today, but people and wolves are just as bad together today as in previous times. Wolves and livestock are just as bad together as in previous times. And then in this room there are references to predatory policies in other countries. You compare with tigers in India and with elephants in an undefined Africa. To say that it is alarming that one has managed to go through this predatory debate in Norway and does not understand that the reason why we have to have a different predatory policy is that we have a different pattern of settlement than the countries that this is about, and, secondly, that we are exploiting it in a completely different way than this is about. And if you haven't brought the elementary things, it's a question of whether we have an enlightened predator debate in this room. There are many in the countryside who today have good reason to feel that the Right and SV have embraced each other in predatory policies, that the Workers' Party has been the promoter, and that the Christian People's Party and the Left are involved. Those who are to bear the burden of having wolves around the walls of the house have not been heard. Information has not been missing. The majority know what they do when they choose not to take into account the experiences that people who actually live with wolves have. People have to cover their lives because of wolves. People get poorer quality of life because of wolves. The qualities that many people want when they choose to live in the village are put under pressure. Why should people be deprived of the opportunity to have the baby lying in a car outside the house? Why should people be afraid to let the kids go to school? Why should people be deprived of the nutritional basis? Why shouldn't people be able to pick berries and use forest resources without feeling fear? Why should wolves be given priority over the quality of life of the rural population? The setting from the large majority that is now holding each other together today does not give a response. There is no reason to believe that the debate on predators will cease after this debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1207	In various ways, different representatives today have made it clear that nature is a threat to us humans. I tried to think through the situation we're in in Finnmark – and it's certainly true: when you live in Karasjok, you go out of the house, and it's under 50 degrees cold, it's clear that nature is a threat, because you can freeze to death when you're outside the house wall. Nevertheless, I have seen pictures of kids frying sausages at the head of the fire at minus 50 degrees. Two years ago, as I went up the Finnmark range, I suddenly experienced hitting a yerv on my way up the hill. Then I thought: That's why I'm Finnmarking, and that's why I'm proud to live in this county – because it's so different, and because you can meet nature as it is. That's why I could experience hitting two rags in my parents' garden. It has only happened once, and it would be absurd to claim that it was a dangerous experience. It was exotic. And I think that's something that makes me proud of being a Finn Marker, that the county is different, that it has a nature to live on, a fauna to live on. That's why I was proud that so many stood up in a rebellion against the Alta expansion because part of the flora was lost, because part of the fauna was threatened. What surprises me is that you can turn this whole debate upside down, as if it's not exactly man who's a threat to nature, and not nature to man. If there's something we see day by day, whether it's in the Amazon, in South Africa, in Southeast Asia, or for that matter in my own state, Finnland, then it's how human beings subdue new and new areas and explain what you're about to destroy, that it's nature that's a threat to us humans. It's a pointless claim. It is clear that it is equally pointless to claim that it is the wolf and the gupa that create problems for the reindeer operation in Finnmark. Everyone knows there's too much pure. We've been sleeping in relation to that problem for a number of years. We haven't done anything about it, and then you accept explanations from the industry itself instead of addressing the problem and solving it. It's not a grazing ground for so much pure. But the practitioners themselves explain that there's too much yerv, there's too much yerv, and there's roaming animals of wolf. The Minister for the Environment knows that this is not true, but he has therefore accepted it as an explanation to the Stortinget. And if there's something that's a strength relative to its own state, then it's that the mass mass does not agree with it. Of course there should be you guys in Finnmark, of course there should be gloat in Finnmark. It was supposed to be missing, too! And of course, one should say to mindless people that we should not accept that the animal should be removed just because it gets away with explanations from the industry. I think that more people should stand upright also in Hedmark in relation to their own attitudes among the population. This is largely about attitudes, about how we're going to meet nature in the future in a way that makes it sustainable, so that people don't overwhelm more nature and destroy more than what we've already destroyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1217	There is no doubt from my point of view that the broad agreement that has been reached has gone in the right direction in very many areas, and that it is useful to influence with descriptions from reality. I think that's positive and uplifting. It is particularly good that the two-part objective has been put in place. But then it is important, as several others have said, that we must also be credible in terms of predatory policy. Of course you have to follow it up. One has a responsibility to take care of this both because one has international obligations and because, as others have said, it is a commitment that Norway should deal with, in any case. However, we also need to put in place an agricultural policy that allows small-scale farming in areas where landslides are essential. We also need to put in place a district policy that makes it possible to live on the outskirts. Several speakers have been involved in the mistrust that exists between parts of Utbant-Norway today and the center, and that is a very important issue. I think some people lack to take inward the feeling of being forgotten, of being overlooked, of being branded as something immature that has gone out on date, and that doesn't matter any more. It makes people very despairing and furious, and it also turns their backs on any obligations you might have to bear in common. We all have a great responsibility here. There have also been some people who have talked about how much damage it can do when the administration meets people with little respect, and I want to underline it. Now more local government is being provided, we get compensation schemes that take into account the chance of gambling that can be in such cases, and the costs of policy are to be borne by the Ministry of the Environment. This is good and an absolute improvement. Then there's a piece that I think the conciliators have to look at together in the future. In order to achieve the two-part objective, I think you also have to look further at the outback, which is hard to exploit. One has promised to look at the relationship around the loss of hunting rights – it has to be investigated. But you should also look at the ratio of the loss of grazing rights, because this can affect some of the very smallest uses, which can have many but small legs to stand on. It is the structure that many of us have been committed to preserving, both for agricultural policy reasons and for the sake of regional policy. And there's no doubt in my heart that many of these peasants are also the most pampered environmental protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1226	I'm going to be pretty short. I've had the word a few times before, so I guess I've said most of it. But I just want to comment on something. There are some representatives, and Bjørn Hernæs was the last, who claims that the Progress Party has no district policy and agricultural policy, and that District Norway would have been depopulated if our policy had gone through. I'm not so concerned with what representatives in this room, or insofar as right-wing representatives around Norway, think about that matter, I'm more concerned with what the people think. And I just have to remind the Right that at the last election we did it fairly well. We have received a great many rapporteurs, and they come from District Norway. I would also like to mention to the representative here next that we have put forward the proposal he himself put forward in 1998, and it will be a little interesting to see whether he is voting against the proposal he was in favour of at the time. As far as emergency protection is concerned, the level of conflict has increased considerably. But we in the Progress Party are used to blame too much, and I think the representative Langeland really said it quite well, that if it had been up to the Advance Party, it would not have been tigers in Africa. There are not tigers in Africa – but we would like to blame ourselves for the fact that there are no tigers in Africa, if it can satisfy the representative Langeland. So we're willing to deal with that. When Knut Werner Hansen said that the Progress Party rode lonely into the sunset, it's probably a film he's seen that inspired him. But if we're lonely in this room, with the exception of support from the Center Party, at least we have support for the population out in District Norway, and that means so much, much more. But I have a challenge to the Council of State, because he did not respond to my line when it came to border groups of wolves. He did not respond when the Senterpartie took it up. Then I need to know if that's how the majority has expressed it in the position, because it says: ‘In the case of border groups of wolves, the majority consider that they need to be managed in cooperation with Sweden and cannot be included in a Norwegian target.’ What's a frontier crew? How often should that flock be in Norway? How often will it be in Sweden? How big is it? What is it that suggests that there is a frontier crew? I think it's pretty important to clarify that, because here it could be a pretty large number of wolves. And I want to know how often they're going to be in Norway to be referred to as a border group? I would recommend the Council of State to respond to that, and I expect the Council of State to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1244	I think this is a rather sad matter. When we discussed the previous report of predators, I used my article: ‘Cry, my beloved country’. It's a book and film title from some years back. On behalf of District Norway, and not least perhaps this area to be affected by wolves, I think it's pretty sad, what's happening now. I still feel that there is a part that thinks of the lion and the lamb can live side by side, and that they do not take enough inward into consideration the problems that predatory policies create. Life quality, security and well-being have been much discussed here, but it is really a struggle for the existence and existence of many in this matter. I also think that some have encountered these problems with an arrogant attitude, where there seems to be a willingness to expropriate and take away some people and areas most – yes, what can be described as the basis of existence. Its longer off are from these everyday problems that this policy poses, the more arrogant and obtrusive are the attitudes. It's kind of like an older, wise person in my own district said some time ago, that it doesn't cost Rasmus Hansson and Viggo Ree anything to cut broad straps of other people's skins. There is talk of economic balance and diversity, and I often ask myself if it is that man and human activity are involved in the ecological image that some people have and foreshadow. The creation includes, in my view, at least the human being in the ecological image. I also think there is reason to look at some of the major weaknesses of the communication presented by the Government, which the majority of the Committee has not at all affected, among other things. the legislation and agreements and conventions which should have been clearly taken into account in the future of predatory policies. The soil law clearly states: ‘This law aims to facilitate the land cover of the country with forests and mountains and everything that belongs to [[area resources]] I think this is an important prerequisite when you are going to deal with, among other things. a new predatory policy. The government has not at all added it. I understand that I have to come back to a few more moments in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1264	Today, we have heard many beautiful words about taking care of the sheep industry, while at the same time reducing the conflict and maintaining the quality of life of people. For example, a group of committees say: ‘It would therefore be desirable to initiate studies to provide knowledge of how predators affect people’s everyday lives and quality of life.’ It's fine, but they could have been involved and reinforced by going in to the proposal of the Center Party here, which goes in the same direction, an investigation of the consequences of quality of life and also economic consequences. It was just that we wanted the results of that study to have an impact on policy. That's why I think it's a little weird when they say that we're on the side line. We have, according to my concepts, moved the majority in the right direction. I'll give you one more example of that. It is about the cost of the predatory game policy. The Central Party has included in the proposal here that all the costs of the predatory game policy should continue to be covered by the Ministry of the Environment's budget. It's been free to join at all times. Today, at 4 p.m. 9.00 we got a new proposal, and it says: ‘The size suggests that the measures referred to by the settlement partners in the setting of the robberies message are entered under the Ministry of the Environment’. There must be small differences here. I can't see why, if it's equal, you wouldn't as well have joined the proposal of the Center Party – otherwise someone would have to be so kind as to explain to me what is actually the difference. If there is not a very clear and good explanation for this – I absolutely believe that it is a step in the right direction – we will do so so that we vote on proposal No. 11, which is our own, and then we will vote in a subsidiary way on the new proposal that has arrived today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1281	The report on violence, which we are dealing with today, is an important matter for many people in this country, and many have been involved. There's some reason why it's like this. For some people, especially the wolf, which takes the domestic animals and tusks around the vicinity, has given a lower quality of life in everyday life. The Storting must take it seriously. What's special about what's being adopted here today is that in the case of the wolf, yes, it's going to be allowed to stick to where it lives the most people, and where it's probably also the most asphalt. It's not easy to understand, especially not for the wolf, I think, because it's not very concerned with asphalt. It probably thrives better out in the woods, but it doesn't. I agree that Norway should have yerv, gaupe, wolf and bear, and that it is a national responsibility that we must take. But that responsibility cannot be borne by a few. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party and SV have changed the Government's proposal to zone the wolf, which meant that the load should only be placed east of Glomma. It was totally unheard of. Now the son gets bigger, but the Workers' Party still believes that the wolf zone should be even bigger and the burden divided by even more, but we didn't get a majority for that. Eastfold is a small group with relatively high population density. This is not a good starting point for predatory game, especially not wolf and gauze. Eastfold is also the state that has the largest globular population. Large parts of the county, especially the eastern part, are an integral part of Swedish wild game management. This area will have both wolf, gaupe and bear from Sweden, regardless of Norwegian tillage management. This is in itself a significant load for the area. It is therefore important that ‘the total pressure on predators should not increase in the regions where there is a great deal from then on, rather the number of animals should decrease’, as stated in the positioning. It is positive that we now have increased prevention efforts, that compensation will be granted to municipalities with large predatory wildlife populations, that Oslo, Akershus and Østfold will be a separate administrative area, that the administration will take place regionally, that we will have a more effective killing of pests/animals with abnormal behaviour, that the compensation schemes will be maintained, and that the rights of emergency protection for dogs will be investigated. Had it been so that it was the Government's proposal that we were to adopt here today, there would have been every reason to go against the whole message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1296	The debate during the treatment of the report on predators has mostly been about wolves. That debate is important, but while the debate is going on, your friend is creeping around almost the whole country and doing infinite damage. We know that the wolf does damage to about 8 pst., while sometimes the damage statistics are up to 40 pst. because of yours. I'm glad that the majority of the committee is able to reduce the number of juveniles, but there are areas in which I believe the administration needs to go into more detail to find local solutions and create trust between the authorities and the industry. This is District Norway. Throughout the Nordic region, the sheep and reindeer industry is heavily plagued by you, but it is particularly difficult right now in the coastal communities of Meløy, Rødøy and Gildeskaal. Historically, in these three municipalities, you almost did not exist, and therefore many farmers have invested in sheep feeding. As late as 1998, only 15 replacements for sheep were requested to be killed by you guys in these three municipalities. In 2003, the number of animals killed was 908, so there was an explosion. The Irish warned early on against developments that they would then come, and recommended hunting in coastal areas as well. Until 2002, the Directorate for Nature Management has refused to do so, but since then it has opened its licence hunt. Unfortunately, the topography in this area is so that it has not been possible to withdraw the quota in the licence hunt so far. Municipalities have a typical coastal climate with strong changing weather and poor track conditions, and also steep mountains. The hunt takes place in the darkest time of the year, and for that reason it is difficult to keep both stock records and hunting. The three municipalities have 13,200 animals on pasture, and there will be a great loss for the industry and the district if the sheep farmers have to cut down. Due to major losses, the Food Safety Authority is concerned about the welfare of the animals. Perhaps the farmer is obliged to cease operations. I'm glad that a broad settlement means that Nordland should be a separate region within the administration. I expect the problem in Meløy, Rødøy and Gildeskaal – and in the rest of Northernland – to be solved when the majority has now so strongly stressed that predatory wildlife subjects are to be responsible for quotas and areas of licensing for you, bear and wolf. It means a larger local government, and I hope that agriculture throughout the country still has a future. At least we can't wait and believe that predators will ever become vegetarians.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1313	The first part of my post is basically only for the protocol. It's because SV, at Hallgeir Langeland, talked about the Abruzzo project as well as was part of the agreement, that we now had to build a very center in Trysil. That's not right. What's in the setting is that if you were to have such a center, a predatory game center in Trysil can "point out naturally". In addition, it says: ‘If this centre is established, the majority would like the authorities to contribute money to information and anti-fear measures.’ Just so that's clear, that's the part we might be going to be on. After all, the centre party disagrees most of the time. Inger S. Enger, however, points to some positive things. I would actually believe that also some farmers in Agder, Telemark, Buskerud and Vestfold will find it quite right that there should not be wolves there. In this way, some things have been done that might make it easier to manage these predators, especially wolves, who have been very central in this discussion. It is gratifying that although in most groups there have probably been some dissenting views in this matter, it seems that everyone will now join the agreement that has come. In itself, I think it's very valuable, so that the four games at least stand behind this equation, behind this setting. I think that's very good. It is important that we all now try to build a bridge between the administration and those affected, that we seek to restore the trust that many have pointed out is not present today, because it is absolutely vital for good development that there is trust between the different levels of government. I think it is very good that the appeals committee is now being added to the Ministry of the Environment, where there are political issues that have to be cancelled. So in the future, we have to make sure that we have better trust between the different levels of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1329	The fight for the existence of human beings and predators is far too far-reaching. On planet Earth, everyone else is living by the grace of men. It's time for us to decide what nature will look like around us, and we're the ones who decide who it is we're going to divide this planet by. Fortunately, biodiversity on earth is still rich. We have large predators in many parts of the world. Fortunately, we have societies that have shown the ability to take care of them. We have crocodiles in Australia, we have puma in America, we have tigers in India, and we still have lions and gorillas in Africa. Today, I was quite shocked to hear the leader of the Center Party, who almost thought it was a great part of the Norwegian community tradition that we wiped out the wolf. I don't think so. I do not share the view of the representative Åslaug Hagas that what we were doing in the last century, when we had a shot premium on predators, is a proud part of Norwegian rural traditions. I thought it was a stage we had set behind us. If it is the case that Norwegian agriculture operates in a way that is so completely different from the way it operates anywhere else in the world, that right here we can take predators, it is also not a view that is particularly sustainable. In India, there is a larger proportion of the population living in rural areas than in Norway. 28 pst. by the people of India live in rural areas, and they are able to have a policy that allows them to take care of the tiger. Many have said that we have an international obligation. It is absolutely right, and it is essential that rich countries, such as Norway, show that we are able to comply with international obligations. But more importantly, we have a moral responsibility to take care of what we are set to manage. We have a management responsibility that we can't push away. I am pleased that we have a broad deal in this matter. I'm glad that we have targets for all the big predators, so that what we're going to discuss in the future is no longer whether we're going to have predators in Norwegian nature, but in what way we're going to manage, so that we can live with predators. Because that's what it's all about now: we have to, like you have to elsewhere in the world, learn how to live with predators, because we've chosen, internationally and nationally, to divide this planet into predators. And that choice I am pleased that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy today is taking.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1348	From almost no repetitions of the main speakers and a relatively tame debate, with the exception of the speeches by the Centre Party and the Advance Party, a number of representatives have now signed up for three-minute speeches. I think it's approaching 50 pieces. This is interesting. Is there anyone who should explain what they themselves think, while their party today decides something else? Could it have anything to do with their district profile, which they want to promote in this way? On the other hand, in the view of the Progress Party, there is no doubt that this is a message that makes it more difficult for people to live in districts that are now somehow affected by predators and the report of predators. I would like to repeat that I believe that too many of those affected are going to be a disaster. The quality of life is being reduced, and I think that the population will eventually be reduced where predators are now to rule after they are satisfied. Of all the families of children I have talked to who are affected by the message, many consider whether to move. But of course this isn't easy. You have roots in your home, you have invested in housing, you have a job nearby, you thrive and thus you have quality of life. Thus, such a zone is not a positive one. And then, hunting opportunities disappear, and buffing becomes impossible. The question is, how can this worldwide be replaced by money or remedial measures? In the opinion of the Advance Party, this is impossible, with or without a Robbery Centre in Trysil or an Elk Center in Kongsvinger. These are two projects that have otherwise been worked on for a long time and beyond this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1357	Rarely does one thing concern so many so much, and with such strong feelings. In Telemark, my home country, the matter has been at the forefront of the political agenda for many years. And for my part, I want to say that the matter has weighed down, precisely because the wolf is strongly unwanted in our county. I supported the report when it was submitted. I think the Council of State deserves commendation for providing a message that balances important considerations. It is a fact that it takes care of our international obligations, while the proposal for zones in the case of wolves was acceptable in relation to a restriction. The government's proposal made it possible for us to reconcile predatory populations here in the country with active off-road industries. And then after that we've got the deal. I think that is also good – I was worried for quite a long time, I have to admit that. However, together with the government parties, the Workers' Party and SV are now helping us to pursue sustainable predatory policies that provide predictability both for the off-road industries and for the rest of the population. I have all sorts of respect for the fear and concern of many people that the wolf will still be in certain areas of the country. It is not something we should take lightly, it must be taken seriously, and therefore I am also pleased that the conciliation focuses on targeted work in relation to just fear. Then it is added up to also ensure local anchoring. Eight regional elected bodies are responsible for the management of predatory policies in their region. And this is where I don't understand the Progress Party, which is now suddenly in doubt at the county boundaries, at the county council – and there must be new tones from that party. The question of compensation is important and it is of great importance that a replacement scheme with increased incentives to avoid losses is now being introduced. And that the Storting should look further at compensation schemes, I think is also positive. Then I'm going to take a last visit to the Progress Party, which in its bigming program says yes to the wolf, but which here says that it's not a goal to have breeding wolf in Norway. At least one can't call it firmness!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1373	There has been a long debate, probably going to the end, but there has been a good debate, in the sense that there has been a high level of factuality. There have been some comments that have presented the various points of view that have been made. However, I feel the need to underline something in relation to what Åslaug Haga suggested in his speech, that the vast majority of her colleagues on the Stortinget are uninformed about the issues they are going to discuss, that the large majority deliberately choose not to listen, and also deliberately want to give priority to the quality of life. When we talk about prevention measures, I could be tempted to suggest that we take action in Stortingen to counter the lack of knowledge about colleagues! – None of this is true. That we should have a different and less valuable view of people and quality of life than what Åslaug Haga has, I feel a need to reject. I am very pleased that her colleague, Inger Enger – in the same party – is meeting the challenge and the debate in Stortinget today in a much more factual and constructive way. Then I will be allowed to thank everyone who has contributed through this process. As rapporteur, I can promise Stortinget that it will be good to finish! It has been a job to grow up, and now I long for Telemark! So I hope the debate doesn't go very far beyond the afternoon and the evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1382	It looks like we're within the reach of the representative's wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1385	I brought this up with the subject-matter paragraph of the Earth Act. I think there's only one law and the convention majority use it, and it's an interpretation of the Berne Convention. The Norwegian Government has also approved and signed the European Landscape Convention, but that is very little. It is such that the European Convention on Landscapes is of great importance, inter alia: in the case of grazing and plants dependent on such land use. The many endangered plant species that are placed on our list of roots in terms of the conservation of the flora depend on this. However, this is obviously not statusal enough in terms of biodiversity and that discussion. The protection of the landscape does not appear to have been taken into account in the notification. No 15, although Norway has signed this Convention. What's going to happen now is that biting bumps and grazing game — especially deer game — get away from the landscape. I also think that the ILO Convention should be more widely addressed, perhaps also in the UN Children's Convention on the Rights of a Child to a Safe Growing Up and Life. This also applies to the Convention on Biological Diversity, which states in Article 9 that it can be based on: ‘ex situ conservation in a manner that does not threaten ecosystems and in situ populations of species’. This is completely absent from the debate on future and modern predatory policies and management. Then I also believe that the Animal Protection Act should have been much stronger – the authority of animal protection scientists and sanctions against the pests. And those who are responsible for these perpetrators, that's the state, that, by the majority here today. In the practical everyday life following the adoption of this suspension, the responsibility for these animals lies with the Minister for the Environment and the Ministry for the Environment. For example, when other animals are attacked by a bump, a child or a privately owned dog, the owner of the dog has immediately been held responsible for what is taking place. But in relation to the predatory game, we withdraw to our summer vacation and sit on each of our tweezers and take no responsibility – this also applies to the Ministry of the Environment. It must be that those responsible for this policy and these animals also have a responsibility towards the victim and the victims' owners. It must also reflect better the animal protection law, so that one goes not only to the victim's owner but also to the victim who is a perpetrator. There has been talk of local ownership of predatory policies. I fully agree with that. I agree with Inge Ryan's description of the lack of trust in the administration. I believe that both hunters, livestock keepers and representatives of the residents of the areas must be involved in terms of stock registration and stocking. Then we can at least get a little more understanding between the administration and the residents. This applies to local ownership. Why not ask the people what it wants? What does it mean, for example? the majority here today on a referendum in relation to whether you want predators in your municipality or not? It could have been interesting to hear the silence of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1405	This has been a debate to get wise, at least most of it has been said. It has also been important in relation to the leadership that is now to be given in the future in the field of deforestation policy. There have been some questions, including questions about what has not been proposed by the Government, but about what has been agreed within the Committee, including: relative to the stock targets. Population targets have been set by the Committee to which these eight regions should also relate. In the case of wolves, it is right that the Committee, as I can at least read it from the recommendation, and that it will be managed in relation to, is in favour of a stock target of three annual young wolves in Norway. Of course, I will deal with that. I also look at page 13 in the vote, that in the case of the border groups of wolves, the majority believe that they must be managed in cooperation with Sweden and cannot be included in a Norwegian target. I'll deal with that. Then there are questions, including: from the Progress Party, on what a border group is. A border group is, of course, a border group. So it's a family group that has its territory on both the Swedish and Norwegian sides. That, as far as I can understand, is the only natural interpretation of it. If you're going to do a very thorough job, you might have to interpret both the one and the other. What would have been interesting to know – I'm not going to discuss it at the bottom of the debate – is how the Progress Party actually defines having wolves, as it says in the party program, as long as the wolf does not create problems. It might also have been pretty interesting to know a little bit more about how to practice it. I might not think it's of the most practical. This morning I was giving a talk at something called GRIPFORUM. There was a representative from the Masai in Masai Mara talking about the travel industry. Then I heard something about this masai shepherding the family's goats and cows among 2,000 lions, 6,000 hyenas and 200 leopards. Norway has 40 wolves. Now we don't have 40 wolves, then, but it does put the whole little bit in relief, so these three breeding wolves we're going to try to manage also in relation to taking our responsibility, also in relation to not putting everything on our neighboring country and not everything on poor Russian farmers. We're going to try to do it with the lowest possible degree of conflict. I can promise that on behalf of the entire environmental management at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1416	To the representative of Rahm I just have to say that there is some party that has been subjected to generalizations here today, it is the Center Party. I don't know how much good it comes out of continuing that debate. The one who made me speak was the representative Sørensen, who in his speech was concerned with India and the management of the wolf in India, where she almost suggested that the Indian administration should be a model also for Norway. Now there aren't so many countries in the world that I have a good knowledge of, but in India I have, after all, lived a few years, so I know a little bit about how things work there. It's true, as the representative Sørensen says, there's a lot of people living in India. You live very closely in India. Thus, the population density cannot in any way be compared to the population in Norway. It is also a fact that people live in villages in India. The fact that people live in villages also has a maritime impact on how predators — in this case the wolf — are to be managed. The fact that people live in villages, in itself, seems deterrent. There's life and touch there. It's activity. That makes the wolf shadows away. It also makes the wolf become natural cloud. We have a different housing pattern in Norway. We live widely, and so it's like a mailbox has a completely different deterrent effect on a wolf than a village with life and touch, rhythm, fire, etc. I must also ask the representative Sørensen, to pursue this a little, what she knows about the shooting of the wolf in India. I don't think it's an entirely unknown phenomenon. It may also be that in terms of the use of land, it is carried out in a completely different way in India than in Norway. So in Norway, we have a very unique use of the field, and the comparison with India does not last in any way. What I'm trying to say is that I'm concerned that we're going to cross-border. We're supposed to. Then we're going to look at the similarities that make it possible for administrations to compare, and then we should also look at the inequalities that make it necessary in some countries to take some particular consideration. From my point of view, there is no doubt that Norwegian housing patterns and Norwegian use of land mean that we have to deal with things in a slightly different way than they have to in a number of other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1431	As a representative of East-Agder, I must leave the wolf alone in this debate. I am pleased with the broad agreement, it is a political compromise that brings together all the strong and conflicting interests. It is, in my opinion, a good political craft of the Energy and Environment Committee. The Berne Convention and Norway’s obligations have been a subject of controversy. I take note of the conclusion that it is not a question of whether we should have predatory game in Norwegian nature, but of how we should manage it. The notification shall be subject to a regional breakdown. The pressure shall be distributed as it stands. When Agder and Telemark don't want wolves, maybe the pressure is high for bears. I have to be allowed to express my concern over the fact that 15 year old bears can seem very much. It's not long since the bear Lefto was shot in Åmli. It came out of its home in Fyresdal, Telemark. I have seen the damage the bear has done to hives, and the fear it created. I assume that the stock is regulated according to the rationale principle. I am also aware that the eagle population has started to get very close to the mountains in the interior of Agder and Telemark. I am almost not out once on a hot trip without seeing eagles. That we're going into such large populations, I'm also very skeptical, but once again I assume that the rationale is used in administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1440	In the course of the debate, there have been a few touching speeches about the need to protect species other than those we call predators. I fully agree that we should do that. I fully agree that we are going to protect the species that only exist in the cultural landscape. It's clear that we're going to protect those species that don't reach the front of today's newspapers. We have many such debates in the Storting, not least in the Committee on Transport – we have many of them there. I expect that all those who have talked about the other species will be involved when we're going to discuss whether we're going to keep a small frog trunk that unfortunately is in the way of the Kvivsvegen. No one was there to defend the bird reserve around Tønsberg when a road was to be built there. There's a lot of exciting biodiversity, and it's clear we're going to take care of it. Sometimes I feel that it gets a little sticky when we're most concerned with the other diversity of things where we're actually trying to treat the wolf the same way we're trying to treat the second part of biodiversity. I am unable with my best will to follow the representative Haga when she says that Norwegian agriculture is completely unique worldwide, that it is nowhere else like in Norway, so we have to be able to eradicate the wolf in Norway. I would assume that it is much harder to have tigers in India than it is for a rich country like Norway to take our share of an international responsibility to make sure that we share this planet with some other predators than ourselves. Finally, I would like to say that we need to have a debate on how to live with predators, because fortunately that's 80 pst. Of this big thing, we're going to do. I would also like to say that I am proud to represent a state where an overall political environment has welcomed the wolf. I think it's good that we've got a zone that makes the wolf welcome in Oslomarka. And then we're going to get to work so that we can come up with good ways to live with predators. In the end, I'm worried that we're in front of other big things that threaten Building Norway more than the discussion about the wolf. I'm a little surprised that, in the light of the EU issue sailing up, the Centre Party does not see any greater need to build alliances with those who can stand together with the Center Party in a battle that will be far more important for Building Norway than a couple of three wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1451	I agree with Åslaug Haga that it is not a big point to continue the short, small round we had in between. But I felt a very strong need to stress that I don't feel that I have any worse ideals in my relation to quality of life or in other human issues than what Åslaug Haga has. Now that I am asking for the floor, it is because I was a little disrespectful not getting a response to Inger S. Enger's questions linked to the proposal that was distributed today early. I perceive that the centre party does not see any nuances in the relationship between what has been inserted in the setting and what has been presented today. I personally believe that there are some nuance differences here, without going into a debate about it. This reflects what is in the majority's position and thinking about this, simply because we've got signals that there may have been too vague signals in the setting. That is why we felt the need to clarify this through a concrete proposal. If the Center Party feels that this is very similar, I can only encourage the Center Party to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1458	Ola D. Glötvold has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1461	It concerns credibility, trust and stability. I do not think in any way that the Minister of the Environment's statement concerning these border groups was good and clarifying. I ask, for example, this Årjäng team, who is it to belong to? Is it a Swedish flock, is it a Norwegian flock, or should it not count with any place, so that there will be a bonus group in predator management? I believe that the predatory game policy in Sweden and Norway needs to be coordinated so – between the two ministers, if not otherwise – that we get a clarification on it. It also has to do with trust. So finally, my concern about the compensation scheme: SV says that the starting point was good, the Labour Party says it was too bad. Birch and honey production are ‘assessed’ in the compensation scheme by the majority. I think that's petty. It should be possible to say something clearer. And then a push on this and live in uncertainty: what will be the future, until 2006? In the context of the previous report of predators, the majority promised that the pressure on predators should not exceed that of majority decisions when dealing with that notification. Now we see that there's a huge increase. We're leaving our promises in Stortinget again.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1468	The Social Committee was on Svalbard a few years ago, and when we visited New Ålesund and got up in the morning, we saw that there were polar bear tracks just outside where we had slept. It's a very special experience – if you'd gone out there at night, you'd probably have hit that polar bear, with the father it meant. So what you see is a community where you put on Finnish hoods because it's cold, and your guns are scrambled because it's dangerous, and you're in a banking queue to take out money. It's not an unusual sight. And you've been thinking about that particular situation. We see how tourists visit that area. No one comes up with the separate idea that this should be an argument for eradicating the polar bear – I think someone had responded to that. But when you hear Åslaug Haga here, you realize that had it been possible to do small farms on Svalbard, the argument would have been that the polar bear is a threat to those who are farming, and for humans, and therefore, at least to a large extent, must be taken out, as you say. In the case of Finnmark, it's not many days since I argued for and supported just one who drove small farms there, a dairy farmer, and other farmers, based on an understanding that there is a valuable industry that needs to be taken care of. But I have to say that when you hear the Central Party here, or experience on television a people's meeting in Hedmark and see the reactions there, I think, is it right to support them? Does it make sense if they do not see that agriculture must be managed in a pact with nature and in a way that makes it sustainable? After all, people from SV are also forced to start thinking: Is it right to have support schemes for this type of activity, which operate in the barbaric way, and which do not at all see that this is a nature to be taken care of? In the next round you have to think about the consequences of that way of reasoning. I have to say that I am very much in favour of organic farming, because you preserve nature, because you create healthy products. But if the person who's going to run that farm argues that then we have to take away other people who are in the area, predatory game, or take away parts of nature, I'll say, it has nothing to do with ecology. Then the farmer has no idea what's in the concept of ecology, and then we're not going to support it either. It is clear that, in my view, with the way the Central Party argues here, we have to look at the support schemes on the basis that this is not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1476	I did not have the right to complete a comment in my first post on compensation. This is a general plan with different impact fields for individuals. In order not to become a theorem, it is necessary to implement measures to mitigate the fear and loss of perceived rights, and I perceive that the Government is willing to do so. There is no doubt that in some places there is an attitude that goes on that it doesn't matter what the Storting does in this case, because I take the gun down from the wall and fix it myself. In order not to recruit to this group, it is absolutely essential that the most affected are given the impression that we also care about the rights that they perceive as theirs, that it is mitigated by compensation schemes. This applies to hunting dogs, to hunting grounds, and to the loss of hunting grounds. There, the Government has provided – and I am very proud of it – one of the elements that will show in the future in this plan, namely the prevention measures, the use of funds for prevention both to mitigate fear and to address what I have already mentioned, and so far, the current compensation schemes will apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1481	I've heard two of Olav Gunnar Ballo's posts now. In both posts he makes himself a spokesman for the visitor to the countryside. He does not make himself the spokesman for the Finnish mark that lives off and off nature, and that gets his livestock torn in pieces by predators, or that gets his income base severely weakened because more and more people think like Olav Gunnar Ballo did now: the predator is something exotic that it's nice to meet in nature when you rarely go out and walk. More and more of us are still living a life where nature, including predators, represents a lovable moment of tension. It's actually not like that for those who live with this every day, and feel at the body what kind of problems predators can represent. More and more of us also have a job in which to leave the desk, get into nature and, at best, have the hope of seeing a wolf or a yer at close range, making us feel like real sons of nature. It was the impression that I was left with after hearing Olav Gunnar Ballo in two rounds, also when he described his visit to Svalbard, which probably felt a little different for those who live there every day, and who have to go armed only they are going a trip outside the corner of the house. Norwegian agriculture preserves biodiversity. Norwegian agriculture exploits the land in an excellent way, and of course it is up to SV to look at the means used in agriculture and to believe that this should be done in a different way. Of course, it is up to the Swedish authorities to believe that more land should be used for grazing sheep, with manure, with the use of sprays and with long-range food, which I thought SV was opposed to. And I have to say that there's a pretty big contrast between the representative of Inge Ryan earlier in the debate, and what Olav Gunnar Ballo now made himself a spokesman for. Ryan had a completely different view of the challenges of having predators close to the body. Lars Sponheim was quite honest in a post he held in Bodø at an agricultural policy conference, when he said that the problem with livestock farming east of Glomma was so small that the people affected by this were able to start with ungulates rather than drifting with sheep. It is possible that there is the attitude that some people take in relation to the real size of the predatory problem, but there is no doubt that what the majority now do is contributing to a deterioration in the quality of life of quite a number of people. I see that the representative Sørensen shakes his head, but a good number of people have been met who feel that way. And people's feelings need to be taken seriously. The level of conflict will increase. The number of predators and the prevalence of predators will increase. It's naive to believe anything else with the predatory policy that the majority put up. And so the level of conflict will also increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1492	I don't think that's good with too much beauty paint on one side or too much black paint on the other. I think this debate has now taken a little off, and I think the accusations here from the minority, and perhaps especially from the Central Party, in relation to the majority, are unreasonable. It is a fact that when the Central Party and the Advance Party choose to stand firm on ‘no’ – and that is a free choice – it would have resulted, if no other party had taken responsibility here, that the Government’s proposal had been adopted as it existed. In my opinion, it would have been the worst. I am therefore pleased that it has become such a broad agreement, and I am pleased that the speakers from the government parties have also said that it is a good compromise. The Minister for the Environment has also said that. We have a setup where we've taken people's opinions seriously. We've reduced the number of animals. We have committed ourselves to more preventive measures and a wide range of other things that people have asked for. So it's okay to think it's bad, but what I think is interesting to know is whether the parties that are now the most critical, actually think this is a worse proposal than what was on the table. Because that's what we had to deal with. It has long been clear here in Stortinget that there is a majority who want to say yes to taking care of the predators, and that has been the starting point. Therefore, I believe that the agreement that is now on the table is to live with for most people. I also see it as very interesting – as the representative Storberget said here – that one of the most praised is the newspaper Østlandingen, which is basically a centre party. And I think that might not be for no reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1501	We've tried to end the debate a lot, but it looks like it's not that easy. I'm starting to say that I'm going to introduce the tiger to Africa, just so that's said. I was a little eager to frame different predators and poor countries that have to live with different predators, and that actually take the responsibility that, among other things. The Minister of Environment illustrated what he read from the Masai tribe. That's where the Center Party really has an explanation problem. So when you look at the responsibility that poor countries take to take care of their predators, the Center Party cannot agree to take responsibility for, for example, their predators. The wolf in Norway. It's a paradox to me. The deal is a compromise. Selects one of the items in the list. And in different articles one thing is that this is a compromise. That compromise is based, among other things, on: to have a two-part objective: to have viable rural areas, to have agriculture in the district, to have environmentally friendly production there, and to follow up the Berne Convention and to have the four predators in Norway. And that is what the compromise says. Everyone who has been up on the speaker's chair from the Right, from the Labour Party and from the SV has defended this compromise and this conciliation, and that is good. You will not get a split that can weaken things in the next round. So finally, it's my hope that the conciliation will facilitate the trust that a person wants out in the districts and out in the municipalities. Now we are inviting from the conciliators' side to constructive cooperation to implement a predatory policy that the country can be proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1512	The representative, Mr Brustad,'s comments here at the bottom of the debate cannot be denied. It is possible that the representative Brustad looks at what the centre party has said and believes, as a black paint, and she will be allowed to do so, but what the centre party has done here today is to put words on what a lot of people feel – and in fact also think – about the issues related to the predatory game policy. It is possible that this is not pleasant to hear from the majority in the United Kingdom – and it is possible that a person would like to call it black paint, and then a few will do so – but it should be said in this Chamber during this debate, and it is not unreasonable at all that the predatory policy it is now put up to will impair the quality of life of many people living around this country. It is not unreasonable to point out that the stock targets and the management to which it is addressed will increase the level of conflict between those who operate and have their livelihoods in these areas and the management of predatory policies. Then it is quite unreasonable for the representative Brustad to say that if the Workers' Party had not taken responsibility here, the Government's order had been adopted. Hey, hey, The scheme of the government had not been adopted. There had not been a majority of the Government's arrangements, for neither the Central Party nor the Advance Party had come to support the scheme of the Government. Indeed, we in the Central Party believe that our proposals would have been better for those who live, work and have their way of life in the areas in question, for those who are most affected, and we believe that our proposals would have helped to reduce the conflicts that have to be overcome by what is being adopted today, not only in the case of wolf management, but also in the case of bear management. Then I have to say that I am very surprised at what the representative here says. If there is a general perception in the Socialist Left Party that one should look at the support schemes, in other words, punish those who are not as organic or as predatory as SV would like with regard to agricultural policy, if one is to punish those who live, for example. in the North Trøndelags and farming there, and perhaps also voting SV, because they actually find it problematic with today’s predatory management or will not accept the predatory management that is, that is the most alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1521	On the other hand, the President would remind us that the word 'deaf' is not parliamentary vocabulary. The next speaker is Øyvind Korsberg. Mr Korsberg has spoken twice in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1526	I didn't really intend to take the floor, but when Sylvia Brustad comes up with the perceptive explanation that if the Workers' Party and SV had not taken responsibility and obtained a majority for a compromise, the government's policy had been adopted, I have to say that it belongs more at home in Rorbua in Tromsø under «You should hear a lot...», because that's not the case. If there had not been a majority of the government's arrangements, today's policy had been pursued. I can only refer to what happened the first time we treated the opera bag, in the last period. Then there was no majority for anything. There was then no decision to build the opera, and then there was a rematch on it. Then I just have to say that I also reacted to Olav Gunnar Ballo's threats to agriculture. I think one could have had a debate at a completely different level of factuality than simply coming up with threats to try to argue for his point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1533	Sylvia Brustad has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1536	I note that in this debate the Progress Party speaks with two tongues. Earlier in the debate, the representative Korsberg pointed out that they had been presented for up to five points from the government parties on which it was to be negotiated, and he has even said that the Progress Party could expect to support the wolf zone proposed by the Government. That is what I expect in the Minutes, because at least that is what the representative of Mr Korsberg has said earlier. But now leave it. Anyway, this is the deal that applies. We felt it was a great responsibility to try to get the policy in a better direction than what was the starting point, and we are pleased to have succeeded.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1543	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[Fotation, see page 2743]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1571	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1580	I'm typing these things can go a little bit calmer and maybe also get shorter duration. The Energy and Environment Committee discussed how to deal with these issues. We asked the Council of State to say something about when an evaluation of the pilot project was to be carried out in the case of snowmobiles, and the majority said that one should come back to a thorough examination of the theme when the evaluation was carried out. For this reason, the majority would like these two proposals to be annexed to the Minutes, and the Centre Party and the Progress Party would like to present their views.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1594	Let me first address the proposals of the Advance Party in these two matters. I shall make it quite brief, because this is not a new proposal as such; this is a proposal the Progress Party has promoted every year. The need to achieve this in more regulated forms is increasing for each passing year. We're aware that there's a pilot project going on in eight municipalities, but we also see that this is starting to get more and more out of time because you haven't started in these municipalities. In our comments in the setting, we have referred to the Hattfjelldal municipality as a municipality that has had this scheme for quite a long time, and it has worked very well. We believe that there should be sufficient grounds for taking a decision to delegate this to the individual municipality. As in the previous debate, we rely on local democracy. We trust the elected members of the local government. We believe that they are able to make the right decisions for their municipality, and we trust them in this matter. But I'm recording that it's not a majority in this case. With regard to the proposal of the Center Party to put a pensioner on the snowmobile to get a possible exemption, we believe that it is not the right way to go. We believe that there should be a general arrangement for all municipalities, and that there should be a conversion of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1607	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1610	The majority in this case is brief and straightforward: we await the evaluation in 2005, not least because the association of foreign municipalities has wanted this for themselves. The pilot project includes eight municipalities, and precisely this linking the practice to local authority, plan decisions and planning processes is essential. The Act of 1988 on motor travel essentially confers on the municipalities the power to take decisions. As you know, the law opens up a number of commercials that would cover most, but not just pleasure driving, except in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, where you can fasten up to 600 miles with scooter runners. I see from the comments of the Progress Party that they regard Utsira and Oslo as remote places because the tightening up of the law in 1987-88 equates them with municipalities like Hattfjelldal, which are clearly the source of this proposal by the Progress Party. Now I've been to Utsira, and I'm sure that's with the draftsman, Mr. Waksdal, who's from Rogaland, too. There are very few snowmobiles to see, to say it carefully. But Norwegian legislation also applies there, even though it is far out in the sea. Similarly, the Law of the Sea in Hattfjelldal applies, even though it is far to the nearest lighthouse. The comparison between the metropolis of snowmobile rides, Hattfjelldal, and the remote city in this context, Oslo, is, however, interesting, because there are also groups other than amusement riders trying to take into account in the current law. People seek out nature for the recreation and experience that nature gives. Here, in fact, silence, peace and tranquillity are essential. It's also an important consideration to take. The question has therefore received the correct answer from the majority. We await this case until the trial is completed, experience from the eight municipalities collected and the evaluation report from NINA is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1625	In trøndelag there have at least been many media headlines about this that pensioners' trips with snowmobiles have been banned in recent years. A title in a comment article was ‘Hygge for the elderly strictly prohibited’. We don't care about that, says the majority of the committee in this position. I find it surprising and disappointing that the majority of people in the United Kingdom do not care that some of the things that older people in Norway have so much appreciated have been stopped. For at least 20 years trips for pensioners have been arranged in many towns in the South-Trøndelag. In many of that time, we have had today's regulations that regulate motor travel in the field. When the matter was raised, the Council of State said that the legislation prevents us from allowing driving like this. The legislation was already written in 1988. A liberal and sensible interpretation of today's legislation is fully possible, for that is what has happened in all years until about three years ago, at least in my county. The intention of today's rules is not to stop mementos for pensioners. Then it had also been done from 1988 and in the years after that, to approx. 2000. I think it is pointless that a quiet day trip along the path to the mountains is called undesirable and environmentally harmful when it is arranged for pensioners to get out of the country, while driving with the council and my backpack up to the cabin of the Easter holiday could happen. The private proposal of the Centre Party is intended to clarify that the regulations are to be interpreted in such a way that organised day trips for pensioners are to be regarded as commercial driving and not pleasure driving, and shall be permitted on specific application under specific conditions. These conditions may be designed in such a way that the authorisation for individual trips will not have an infectious effect so that others will have to be allowed if pensioners are allowed to take a day’s tour of the year. There have been strong local reactions to this tradition of retirementist tours being stopped. There have been unanimous municipal decisions to grant, but there have been threats of punishment for environmental crime from the county and the police. We can't have it like that. From Røros it was reported in March: The snowmobile trip was the highlight of the year. The same message came from Tidal. In retrospect, the pensioners at Røros continue to rejoice over their journey, because Røros is a probationary community, and they are allowed to take the decisions that the people want. It is a decision that the Center Party believes all municipalities must be allowed to take. In Tidal, the municipality was fined NOK 50 000 for accepting the application despite the fact that the county council had notified in advance that it would be illegal. Not caring about the local reactions in such cases is arrogant, it's unwise, it's environmentally hostile, and it's square. Magnhild Away used the words 'childish' and 'heavy in the haue' about that attitude. I'll be able to put forward the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1642	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1647	I agree that the evaluation must be carried out before any legislative changes are made. The rules for using snowmobiles are very strict. This can be good in the first place, because any change becomes a liberalisation of or at least a relaxation of the regulatory environment – it can almost not go the other way. I have the impression that the debate on the use of snowmobiles in many ways is similar to the predatory debate: everyone has a clear view of snowmobiles – for or against. I believe that creating so-called recreational loops is the only way you can separate those who want to use snowmobiles, and those who want to enjoy nature with trucks or skis. This works in Sweden, Finland and Canada. I have snowmobiles myself, and the picture that the media creates of us as savages in nature is not right. This applies to a few. My experience is that the snowmobile is used for necessary, practical driving and recreation, for a Sunday tour with family and friends, where both skis, boilers and sausages are included – and many get into nature. I have seen many readings about the trials in Vinje in the West-Telemark Sheet. There are surprisingly many, including people who were initially skeptical, who have seen positive things in these recreational loops. I therefore agree with the majority that the evaluation report of the eight experimental municipalities must be based and adapted to the local law. In my opinion, it is only through legislation that all interests are safeguarded, that respect for the law is respected. There can be no goal for us as lawmakers to make offenders of initially law-abiding people, as today's law does in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1654	I'm gonna be short, too. Clearly, the use of snowmobiles is an asset for Utang-Norway. Recreational and not least nutritionally, a controlled use of snowmobiles is positive. Norway may have the most restrictive snowmobile policy in the world. We in the Progress Party fear that the situation will come out of control precisely because of that. Even more people will be bluffing the rules, and the conflict will be even bigger. The authorities will then have to deploy even greater resources to chase people off the snowmobiles, as if there were no other, more important, tasks to take care of. I mentioned business, and for the outlying districts it is important to use snowmobiles to carry things back and forth to cabins and hotels, and it otherwise had to use a snowmobile for nutritional purposes. But it's also about recreation. Before today we have talked a little about this with quality of life. Life quality is too many to get into nature. For some it is not to do it on foot the easiest way to do it, but then controlled use of snowmobiles can help them get out. There are many people who have snowmobiles in Norway. That's about. 100000 who is a member of some snowmobile association. Many of these are now beginning to look at Sweden. In Sweden, there are completely different legal rules for the use of snowmobiles. That's why many people travel to Sweden and drive there. So the problem is really going to be the same thing. If you think snowmobile riding is a problem, it's just a boundary separating here. You can ask the question about this, for example: is dangerous for a snowmobile to run on an unbroken winter road. All the snowmobile clubs in Norway, they also employ a lot of young people, and I think that's a good way to do youth work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1666	As a case spokesman for these two matters, I need to make a clarification. On the committee's side, it's not supposed to be showing arrogance, or not caring about us, which are expressions that have been used here. Of course, all representatives need to say hello to some people in some cases, and so do I, but I don't think that from the committee's point of view there's arrogance or that you don't care about pensioners and other people who want to go out and run snowmobiles. But in fact, we want to have that evaluation on the table, which will come in mid-2005. Therefore, we do not reject the suggestion that they be annexed to the protocol. So we come back with a thorough treatment when this evaluation takes place. So this isn't meant to be arrogance from the committee's side, it just makes sense to wait for one to have the information on the table, so that one can deal with these matters properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1671	I just want to make a little speech in relation to what the representative Halleraker said, that, after all, you need peace and quiet in nature. Now we have just had a debate on predators, and I would like to say the following: how we manage the natural values in relation to this with snowmobile policy, can make the management plan with regard to predators appear to be a tiny pitiful bracket in relation to what we can risk happening on a vast scale and in the nature of Norway in the future. It's completely different dimensions of what we're doing here, than the important thing we did in the previous case when it came to preserving our predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13.ana.ud1171e1676	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. The morning meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see pages 2744 and 2745]]
