ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e42	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Odelstingen meetings this week and Monday and Tuesday of the coming week – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Åsa Elvik and Heidi Grande Røys. – Other proposals are not available, and Åsa Elvik and Heidi Grande Røys are unanimously elected presidents of Odelstinget’s meetings this week and Monday and Tuesday next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e57	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e66	In Ot.prp. No 86 for 2004–2005, the Government reviews the laws on alcohol and reviews them. A comprehensive committee is in favour of such an audit in the light of the general societal debate we have, more recent research reports and also our relationship with the EEA Agreement. Throughout the entire setting, there is a large majority, consisting of the Labour Party, Right, Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, which are behind most of the changes. If there's another plural that's behind it, I'll clarify it on the way. I expect the Progress Party will comment on its own proposals. A number in the Committee believe that the goal of Norwegian drug policy must be a significant reduction in the social and health damage to alcohol. So they're behind the measures that the Government is drawing on the proposition. The Committee’s plurality underlines the central objective of reducing total alcohol consumption, and believes that Norwegian alcohol policy has been effective. In examining this proposition, the Committee has decided that the modernisation and updating of this alcohol law will continue to serve as a good management tool for the municipalities. The Committee is concerned that municipal alcohol policy should be policy-driven and comply with national objectives. Therefore, the Committee believes that the preparation of alcohol policy action plans is still a municipal obligation. The Committee’s plurality suggests that there is a need to make the decision of good repute more effective, and supports the changes in this area. The plurality is also positive to facilitate more effective, targeted and holistic control of the platoon and platoon. The Committee's plural opinion suggests that one must fight against outdoor discrimination, and therefore supports the proposed clarification in paragraphs 1 to 8 that repeated outdoor discrimination should be a ground for withdrawal. The Government proposes that the classification of alcoholic beverages into the categories beer, wine and spirits should be replaced mainly by a categorisation according to alcohol content. The proposal provides for a simpler legal framework while complying with the requirements of the EEA Agreement, and the Committee endorses this. The Committee believes that there must be the same rules for age limits for the sale and donation of alcohol. The Committee considers it to be of little importance if the wine monopoly and a wine canning site are to be adapted to different limits. The Committee believes that the Government has found a good solution when it is proposed to replace the paper regime for the import and wholesale of alcoholic beverages with a registration system administered by the Customs and Tax Administrations. The plurality of the Committee also supports the proposal for the establishment of the system of registration, which is still intended to ensure sound and defence control. The Committee's plurality is concerned with keeping up with the current ban on advertising alcohol. The same majority emphasises that a ban on indirect advertising for alcoholic beverages is absolutely necessary in order to improve the effectiveness of the ban on direct advertising. The Committee's plural opinion is that the State monopoly on wine is a very important element of Norwegian alcohol policy, a system that effectively excludes private economic interests from the trading of alcohol. The wine monopoly scheme also offers good opportunities for regulation and control. The plurality of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, also support the proposal to wind up the country plan scheme. The Committee's plurality suggests that municipalities should have the opportunity to comment on the establishment of new wine monopoly shops in their municipality. This majority therefore assumes that the Ministry ensures that the Vinmonopolet establishes such a listening practice. The plurality of the Committee wishes to maintain a wide-ranging composition of the works council at the Vinmonopolet. The Committee believes that a broad set of measures will ensure regional representation while contributing to greater support for the wine monopoly system. The multiplicity of the Committee does not want beer to be too low and used as a attractor. The majority are afraid that the pricing of different rebates could also challenge the advertising ban we have when it involves alcohol, even more so. The majority therefore believes that Document No. 8:79 should be rejected. The Christian People's Party is pleased that, when we are now revising the alcohol laws, we can manage to have so much unity and build such a broad alliance in the social committee. We hope that this alliance can help focus on and set the arrows we need to keep up with the good and restrictive alcohol policy we've had.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e106	I agree with the case rapporteur that today's position shows above all that there is broad agreement on the main lines of Norwegian alcohol policy in the questions expressed through this proposition. By and large, it's just the propulsion part that's on the side line. This means that the Progress Party does not have an influence on Norwegian alcohol policy, and that is good for Norwegian alcohol policy. Essentially, I would like to agree with the assessments that the rapporteur has now made. I think he had a good review of both the position and the reason from the majority to stand for the position we stand for. For this reason, I will focus on a point where there has been a debate in the Committee — and this is also reflected in the vote — namely the question of using the alcohol law as an instrument for safeguarding the rights of people with disabilities. I don't think there's any doubt that people with disabilities are discriminated against at the service points, at least in two ways. Firstly, the attitudes of disabled people discriminate against them. It is a well-known case that e.g. door guards reject disabled people because they might look different, they might go different, and they might talk differently. So they're not rejected because they don't have physical access to the room, but simply because they meet people at the door who have attitudes toward people with disabilities that just cause them to be rejected because of their disability. In addition, of course, it is the more well-known form of discrimination against people with disabilities that the room is simply not available to them. With regard to the first issue, which concerns attitudes, the majority, where the Labour Party is not involved, demonstrate the work of a separate legislative committee dealing with the legal protection against discrimination against people with disabilities in the wake of the position of the Manneråk Committee, in the wake of the requirement for a separate anti-discrimination law. I understand the argument that we must first get this full law review before we release certain special laws, but I am very afraid that we will now in the Stortinget for a long time live with a situation where the best is the enemy of the good. We could have made changes already now. I understand that there are representatives in Stortinget who are working on a Document No. Eight proposals related to this question. I just want to say that the Labour Party will strongly consider supporting such a proposal, if it is promoted. It is the municipalities that grant permission for the sale and donation of alcohol, and it is clear from the law, as we are now adopting it, that the municipalities in that context must assess the whole. I have to say that I am actually disappointed that the majority of people today cannot support the proposal for a law-enforcement clause 1-7a, that the municipalities, in their overall assessment, should also be able to focus on accessibility for people with disabilities. The local authorities will focus on many aspects when assessing funding, and that the majority does not want it to be possible to focus on accessibility for people with disabilities, I have to say that I feel more like unwillingness than a particularly good political argument. I'm sorry. With that, I will address the proposals on which the Workers' Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e123	The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e126	Initially, I would just like to refer to what the rapporteur said about the majority voting, and join it. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteur for a good job on the matter. It is essentially a matter of simplifying and modernising the alcohol law, one of which adapts the law to the reality of the day. However, I want to get into some matters, and then especially the same point that the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was at. It may initially seem strange that one does not support the good intentions that are behind the Workers' Party's proposal, but the reason why one does not do so is – as the representative Hanssen also pointed out – that there is a wide-ranging work going on here in connection with a change in the law. Then one in the situation that the alcohol law regulates a single industry in a very strong way. It is not because, as such, this industry needs a stronger regulation than other industries, but that the product it sells has such a meaning that one has chosen to have more stringent regulation of it than that of other products. Then it can be very easy for us, as elected representatives, to fall for the temptation to impose much more stringent demands on this industry than it imposes on other industries, and attach it to relationships that are not related to the donation of alcohol. You can see that sometimes this house happens, and not least you can see that it sometimes happens around some municipalities, precisely because the penalty option that you have through the alcohol law, either by not granting or by taking out a grant, is so absolute in this sector, and so much stronger than in almost all other industries that you can compare with. Therefore, we believe that it would be wrong to make this type of regulation related to this industry in particular, but that this industry must have the same regulations and regulations as other types of industries. It would be very special if we chose to have stronger requirements for accessibility for people with disabilities to do so than for example. have a cultural house in the municipality, which might be one of the consequences of the proposal that the Workers' Party has made. We believe in availability, and this has been demonstrated by the Government through the action plan that was just presented. We hope that this will be an important topic when we deal with this matter in its breadth, but going into and regulating one area related to alcohol in relation to this will be wrong. Paragraphs 1 to 7a, to which Bjarne Håkon Hanssen referred, are essentially about matters to which the municipality can place emphasis, and which are all relevant for the donation of alcohol. You also have to include it in this picture. One has also made some changes to the operation of the wine monopoly. I am pleased that one of them has completed the country plan scheme. However, the Committee has made it clear that, of course, the wine monopoly must continue to be in dialogue with the municipalities where one wants to establish itself, where one plans to establish a wine monopoly, and listen to the views of the municipality. However, the municipality should not, of course, be subject to a veto in the future, for example. location of pole. The municipality has other instruments in relation to the place where the business is to be carried out, including: the normal regulatory plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e139	Now the good mood is broken, now we must talk about alcohol policy also in the Progress Party! The Government suggests in Ot. pp. No 86 a number of changes to the alcohol law and to the wine monopoly law. Some of these changes are made to improve the adaptation of Norwegian alcohol policy to the EEA Agreement, but several changes are in the range of further tightening of Norwegian alcohol policy. A number of purely sensible and practical changes are also proposed, including: as regards the possibility of delegating to cases on the credit front. For the time being, the Progress Party is alone in proposing the repeal of the entire Chapter 9 of the Alcohol Code. This concerns whether or not to open up alcohol advertising in Norway. The Party wishes to remove this prohibition in order to allow its products to be informed even if they contain alcohol, as is the case in most countries within the EEA territory. The Progress Party wants an alcohol policy that is more similar to that in other European countries. There is also reason to wonder how long Norway will be allowed to keep its ban on advertising, all the time when most, and hence the EEA, are pursuing a different policy. In this regard, it is interesting to read the opinion of Einar Bull of the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, to the FK Handelsbladet on Tuesday 5 October 2004: ‘Alcohol advertising is permitted in Norway in half a year to one year. The monopoly on wine will disappear in the longer term – and the monopoly on slot machines may well be stopped.’ This is no one who thinks, and who says, but a person who works on these issues for a day-to-day time. We already know what's going on in the automatic case. Now that we are dealing with the problem of the wine monopoly and its further existence, there is no doubt that, among other things, the Progress Party. wish for the sale of wine to take place in the retail trade, and we will propose it at a later stage in the hope that there will soon be a majority in favour of this, as is the case in the Norwegian population. Studies that have been carried out just show a majority that goes in that direction. The reason why proposals are not being promoted now is that such a majority is now composed in this larger case, even the Right would obviously vote against its own party programme, where this party actually says that they are for the sale of wine in the grocery trade. What I find very strange, however, from the majority, is that one does not want to give the Vinmonopole the opportunity to run information about their products in combination with food through so-called public tests outside the opening hours of the store. This is very amazing, because even if you're concerned about the existence of the pole, you're going against a measure that could just help build up under the confidence of the wine monopoly. At the same time, those who really want to learn more about wine would, among other things. in combination with food, could reap the great amount of knowledge available to employees of the Vinmonopoly in this field. Some time ago, the authorities actually introduced a minimum price of beer in their grocery stores by reference to Sections 8 to 12. The party to the progress is of the opinion that the retailers themselves are able to assess their business situation without intervention by the authorities, and that Norwegian consumers must also be able to enjoy the competition that may arise in this area, with lower prices as a result. Today, the party of progress is only about softening something in the very strict Norwegian alcohol policy. However, although the majority provides for further tightening today, there is reason to believe that our view will win through the EEA system in the future. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, which has been included in the vote. Finally, I would just like to say a few words about outdoor discrimination. It is said that it is regrettable that the Progress Party does not agree with the proposal on out-of-court discrimination in this area. The reason why the Progress Party is opposed to the proposal contained in the proposal is the issue of double-punishment. The Progress Party clearly believes that discrimination at the time of outreach is also subject to criminal law and is to be judged accordingly. However, in the view of the Progress Party, the withdrawal of the grant of donations is a double penalty and should not be linked to this special alcohol law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e170	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e173	The debate on alcohol and Norwegian alcohol policy often arouses strong feelings. Nevertheless, it is largely under-communicated that Norwegian alcohol policy has actually worked. It is true that, compared with most countries it would be natural to compare with one another, Norway is doing well in view of possible harm as a result of alcohol consumption. It turns out that people from countries down in Europe through daily consumption of alcohol, often from young years of age, and as part of the culture, have developed health - care harm far more than we know in Norway. It is also seen that measures to combat withdrawal may indicate that alcohol also needs to be available in healthcare institutions, simply to avoid the emergence of abstinence for inpatients. This is a reality that we know little about in Norway per year. date. It is often said that continental drinking habits represent a type of quality that we should stimulate in Norway. It is precisely as a consequence of the type of drinking that has had such an adverse effect that it may be the biggest health problem in many parts of Europe. There is also a worrying trend in Norway. From its own figures, the total consumption of alcohol in the Norwegian population in 1993 was 4.55 litres of pure alcohol per year. population over 14 years, while in 2003 it had increased to more than 6 litres. And that's how 10 pst. of the population accounts for approx. 50 pst. of consumption expenditure. The trend has been particularly alarming in the 15- to 20-year-old age group, where the average alcohol consumption in the 1990s was 3 litres of pure alcohol per year. In 2003, it was increased to 5.6 litres of pure alcohol. What is positive is that the majority in the Grand Duchy is calling for the wine monopoly system, which has had an effect. It has also been effective that price levels in Norway have been high and that access to alcohol has not been on a 24-hour basis but within normal opening hours. The effects of this have just been that, after all, consumption has remained lower in Norway. What we hear from the Advancement Party is just going to be an instrument that reinforces the problems associated with alcohol. In statistics on crime, it is not least that the use of drugs can be included as part of the problem of increasing crime. SV supports the option of the majority with very few exceptions. In the same way that the Workers' Party has stated, we have been concerned that the rights of disabled persons must be respected even in terms of access to outpatients. We see that it may be difficult to demand the short term development of all patios so that you have physical access, for example for wheelchair users. However, it is clear that pressure needs to be exerted in order for more people to develop that type of availability over time. Then there is a problem that has arisen during the handling of the case, but which is probably not well enough caught up in the document, not from us in SV, namely that some people have disabilities that may give rise to a different kind of behaviour – there may be people who have cerebral mating, for example – that could lead to simply not having access to the outside area. You have to have a certain threshold, a certain understanding that there can be the misunderstanding that people are drunk. But when it's clear that that's not the reason, there's no reason to discriminate against people from getting in. It is important, as in other cases, to ensure that people with disabilities are also protected against discrimination. For SV it will be important to come back to this matter. We have a proposal in preparation that will take it into account and that we will later want to promote in Stortinget. I hear that several have stated that the system of land plan for the Vinmonopolet should be abolished. SV has seen it as a strength to have such a system in order to achieve as much equivalent a distribution as possible also in terms of access to wine monopolies, because alcohol is also a commercial product that is lawful to trade. That is why it is a point to control that development, not for purely business policy reasons, but for the sake of access for the population, and that alcohol is legally traded. We therefore want to continue that system, and thus promote the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e194	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo has promoted the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e197	There is reason to conclude that the objective of Norwegian drug policy must be a significant reduction in the social and health damage caused by drug use. In this context, we are behind the government's goal in this proposition. A key objective is to reduce total alcohol consumption in relation to the problems you face in this context. There is probably also reason to state at the outset that there is technical evidence to suggest that Norwegian alcohol policy has been effective in limiting total consumption, and we want to continue to do so. It is important that the alcohol law acts as the law is supposed to be, an effective alcohol policy tool. It is therefore right to try to modernise and update the legislation, so that it continues to function as a good management tool in this context. When the EEA Agreement was adopted here in Stortinget, its followers believed that they could have their own, national and unimpaired alcohol policy in relation to the EEA Agreement. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. That's one of the reasons why we have this revision of the law today. When the representative of the Progress Party in the Chair today says that the EEA Agreement will move Norwegian alcohol policy towards the policy of the Progress Party and that the attitude of the Progress Party will be fulfilled gradually, it is frightening to me, with my view of alcohol policy. I would think that no one in the majority would be particularly pleased with this, if they then accepted what was written down in this setting. As I said, a certain revision may be necessary. However, the revision needs to be based on its own wishes and national needs to modernise and update the alcohol law. In most key issues, there is a large majority to have a comprehensive alcohol policy, including: have a more efficient and targeted control of turnover and sales. It is also agreed that the same age limit should be set for the sale and donation of alcohol. Then we have a point on which there has been a lot of discussion in the committee, and it concerns accessibility for people with disabilities in relation to gift shops. It is a little surprising that no more could be involved in the proposal promoted here by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, especially in the case of the first paragraph of Section 1-7a, that there should be good and sufficient accessibility for people with disabilities. As Hanssen's representative from the Workers' Party said, it must be a bit of a wretched will when you cannot take this in, and it must only be the basis for having this with non-discrimination into the law as an essential part of the law in relation to giving and selling. Then I want to record a couple of other relationships. One concerns Document No. The 8th proposal, which we also deal with in this context, where the Progress Party wants to have a very liberal price policy in terms of the sale of alcohol, especially beer, and that it should be priced so that you can have it as an offer and a lure. I am pleased that the remaining parties in the Committee do not want beer to be priced like this, nor that it could be used as bait. This must at least be the case in a conscious alcohol policy in Norway. At the same time, in line with what the majority say in the vote, I would say that such a discount scheme for alcoholic beverages could also further challenge the ban on advertising. We have a very special advertising regime for alcohol in Norway. We've discussed whether it should be embellished, for the good purpose that breweries should be able to advertise the low-alcohol goods and non-alcoholic goods, but when we've chosen to be part of what the government here is proposing, it's based on the fact that you don't want to give a little finger here, so that we can question the advertising policy that we're going to have. So finally a little bit about this with the land plan and the role of the wine monopoly. We believe that municipalities should have the opportunity to comment on the establishment of a store when new wine monopolies are established around them. I am very pleased that there is a majority here, consisting of all parties except the Advance Party, who say that the ministry should ensure this with consultation practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e219	The government’s policy objectives for drugs are a significant reduction in the social and health damage caused by drug use. A key objective of alcohol policy is to reduce the total consumption of alcohol by measures targeting the whole population. The relationship between total alcohol consumption and the extent of harm is very well documented. The current alcohol law entered into force in 1998. Over the years since its entry into force, the Ministry has received input from municipalities, non-governmental organisations and traders on how the law works in practice. In 2003, the publications came in 2003:4 Research in the drug field and the major international knowledge summary «Alcohol: no ordinary commodity». These contributed to increased knowledge of the demonstrable impact of the various alcohol policy instruments. The relationship with the EEA Agreement has also contributed to the need for an assessment of some provisions of the Alcohol Act. Overall, this has provided the basis for a general review of the law. The main objective of the Government for the revision of the Alcohol Act is: continuing the alcohol law as a central instrument in Norwegian alcohol policy to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of reducing the social and health damage to drug use and to reducing the total consumption of alcohol to simplify legislation and remove unnecessary provisions that the alcohol law is an effective tool for local authorities' control of the sale and supply of alcohol to provide municipalities with greater freedom to organise their alcohol policy work in an appropriate manner; How is the achievement of these objectives ensured? In the revision of the Alcohol Act, it has been important for the Government to see the different changing needs in the context. This ensures a comprehensive alcohol policy, where the various measures work in interaction. The proposals in the odelstationsproposition can be summarised as follows: The Government wants the legal classification of alcoholic beverages into the categories beer, wine and spirits to be replaced mainly by categorisation according to alcohol content. The proposal provides for a more logical, tidy and simpler legal framework, while complying with the requirements of the EEA Agreement. The Government proposes to replace the authorisation system for the import and wholesale sale of alcoholic beverages with a registration system administered by the customs and charging authorities. This proposal should also meet our international obligations. The need for verification is ensured by the provision of detailed rules on registration and verification in the excise duty regulation and by the establishment of a register of authorisation holders and establishments entitled to wholesale sale. Furthermore, we propose a number of changes related to municipal governance, treatment and control. We have stressed that the municipal licensing system for the sale and donation of alcoholic beverages must be designed to help achieve the national targets set for alcohol policy, including reducing total consumption and raising the initial age. At the same time, local authorities must be guaranteed the necessary room for action for local adaptation. In addition, the legal system has to be seen in a coherent way; each measure and every act cannot be seen in isolation. The proposals take account of the balance between these considerations. The government has also proposed some changes related to the framework conditions for the activities of the Vinmonopoly, including: the proposed country-wide scheme is repealed. The need for checks is met by maintaining the department's authorization to fix the maximum number of appropriations and their geographical distribution. In the odelstingsproposition, the Government has also discussed in detail the ban on advertising alcoholic beverages. The Government does not propose any changes to the advertising ban, but concludes that the current ban is necessary and appropriate as part of the Norwegian alcohol policy system and that the advertising ban as a whole is legitimate and proportionate also in relation to the EEA Agreement. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the prohibition, it is also necessary to maintain the prohibition of indirect advertising. I believe that the proposals put forward together involve a revision of the alcohol law which modernises it, which simplifies it and, at the same time, sees it as a whole, so that the law can continue to be an important and effective alcohol policy instrument. For me, it is gratifying to note that the majority of the social committee seems to be largely in agreement with me in the view of the role of the alcohol law. There is a broad political background to today’s attitude, and hence to the view of the alcohol law and its role in alcohol policy, which is a politically important foundation for further work. I would like to thank the Social Committee and the rapporteur for their work. The changes which, in agreement with the Government, emerge from the majority of the caste, strengthen and substantiate this in my view. Finally, let me briefly comment on the issue of outdoor discrimination in relation to disabled people. The investigation to which the majority refers when it does not support the proposals that the minority are behind, I expect to come in April next year, and in this context we will consider the questions raised in the vote on accessibility for people with disabilities, which is a very important issue also in the outdoor sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e263	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e266	Until the last Council of State stated: I have said in my main post that I understand that one chooses to argue that one will first have the general review of the law on discrimination against people with disabilities, before going on special laws. But I think there is a somewhat sought-after argument in relation to the first paragraph of Section 1-7a, on which a concrete proposal has been made, which goes directly to what we think it is right that the municipalities should be able to focus on in relation to the question of funding. We do not have to wait for a major law investigation until we say something about what municipalities should be able to pay attention to. It should therefore be possible to focus on the number of outlets, the nature, location, target group, traffic and order, industrial policy considerations and local environment considerations, but not on accessibility for people with disabilities. I ask the Council of State for the reason for this somewhat square attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e274	With regard to the reasons for the position taken by the majority of the Committee on this proposal, which has thus been raised during the Committee's proceedings, I refer to what has been said by the speakers of the majority in this Chamber. From the Ministry's point of view, I would like to say that we are generally committed to strengthening the legal protection of people with disabilities, and we want to assess this also in relation to the alcohol law. But we believe that it is a fundamental step to take when you want to include this type of rule in the alcohol law, whether it concerns one or the other paragraph. Therefore, when we have such a full-width investigation right around the corner, we believe that it is factually well justified to wait for that investigation, before perhaps taking such a fundamental step in a special law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e281	Now, the undersigned has met the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in so many contexts where we have discussed alcohol policy, that asking questions as to why he believes exactly that about that paragraph of the Alcohol Act, I do not intend to do so. But I want to ask the Council of State questions about the following: We saw a while ago that several shops had varying prices when selling beer in the grocery store. Then you intervened from the authorities and said that the price is too low, you can dial up the price. In this connection, we have had the debate on how little one is allowed to sell a bottle of beer for in the grocery trade. I then ask the following question to the Council of State: What is the basis for calculating what is the lowest price a store is allowed to sell a bottle of beer for? It may be very good to know when to decide how low a price can be set.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e288	I have noticed that the Progress Party in this position and in this debate has parked itself in the extreme corner of the liberalist corner of Norwegian alcohol policy. I am so sorry, because the policy put forward by the Progress Party will mean increased availability and consumption and thus increased adverse effects of alcohol. That, I think, is the most important thing to discuss in relation to the policy of the Progress Party. In the case of price war on beer, the starting point is that the alcohol law bans the use of alcoholic goods as a bait to get people into shops that otherwise sell groceries. I would like to refer to the management of the legislation that the Social and Health Directorate has done in this way. There is also an administration when it comes to assessing the price level, which I fully support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e295	In the context of the treatment of alcohol law, there has been a good deal of contact with the organisations of the disabled with regard to discrimination against people with disabilities. One issue has been addressed by the Social Committee, to try to gain access to it. The second problem is that, in line with others, you can be discriminated against not because the room shouldn't be suitable to accept them, but simply because the person who might be standing at the door on a patio finds that he doesn't like him because of a slightly different behavior. And then you are discriminated against on that basis. Does the Council not see the need to clarify that discrimination should not take place, in the same way that it should not be discriminated against on the grounds of race, religion or perhaps sexual orientation, i.e. that it must be equated in many ways with what has otherwise been suggested in relation to non-discrimination between this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e300	I will answer yes to the question from the representative Ballo. There is every reason both to distance and protest against any form of discrimination against people with disabilities in the outlying world, whether in terms of physical availability, or in terms of the dissemination of discriminatory attitudes towards individuals because of their disability. It's just the overall approach that the sample now reviewing the legal protection of people with disabilities has in its work, and we want to see, when we follow up that investigation, that we have a law that adequately takes this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e305	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e310	What made me take the floor again was the representative Nesvik's post where he talked about alcohol advertising, and he says we need to get more in line with Europe. I also thought it might be interesting, it is made clear both in the committee setting and in the proposal that France's alcohol laws prohibit the advertising of alcohol and tobacco on TV, cinema and radio, the Irish government has promised restrictions on the advertising of alcohol on TV, the UK medical unit is now in a dialogue to try to get it in there, and the Latvian government is considering a ban. We also know that on 10 November, the Swedish Parliament adopted changes in relation to indirect advertising, to approach what we have here in Norway. Then I thought it would be strange for the representative, Mr Nesvik, to present it here as if we are so strange, when it now turns out that Europe is actually moving in our direction. So I thought it was exciting with the touching care of this, by referring to the quote from people who are afraid that it will disappear, when one on one side wants to take it away, and then show care because one is afraid that it will be gone, and therefore immediately suggests removing it. A collective committee type in its configuration that wants to increase the age of its debut alcohol use. Does the representative Nesvik not see that as he puts it, will this actually go in the opposite direction? We will have total liberalisation, we will move away from what is actually happening in Europe. Therefore, I am very pleased that the plurality of the committee so clearly distances itself from the Progress Party's argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e319	The representative of Osmundnes refers to a number of countries that consider making changes to their laws and regulations in this area. If you get a Europe in which all the countries with which we compare and trade move in that direction, we will of course all assess it. But reality shows something completely different. The reality of today is that, when you turn on and watch football matches from the Champions League, you sit down and read foreign journals, you board the Danish boat, you meet the advertising all the time. We believe, in fact, that Norwegian citizens are no more sensitive than those living abroad, we believe that the Norwegian people will be able to tolerate the kind of information that comes out there. When it comes to lowering the initial age of alcohol use, I don't think you get the big problem around that piece. Young people today are exposed to these advertising campaigns in – I kept saying everyone – ethermedia, the Internet, magazines, when they take a trip on the Danish boat, travel to the South, so I don't think it's actually going to be the big problem that Osmundnes here refers to. But let's send the challenge back to Osmundnes: here's a majority who want to maintain the wine monopoly system as it is today. The same majority then voted down a wish from the Vinmonopolet to have audience tests in their premises. Here we're talking about people who have very high professional skills in wine. They have actually gained so much competence in wine that I even have problems, I kept saying, as far as our proposals on how to look at this with regard to the existence of the wine monopoly are concerned, because there is a very good offer today in the wine monopoly shops. But can't the representative Osmundnes realize that they can use their expertise in addition to standing up and despatching customers, just to be able to inform them?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e329	In relation to the audience test and testmaking, I found it interesting that one has a touching care from the Progress Party to rebuild the Vinmonopole, when one wants to put it down at the same time. But there is no problem for me to defend why the Christian People's Party has opposed testing. If a sample opener is required, an opener is required for the wine monopoly to be granted a gift permit. There are some problematic questions asked. The wine monopoly should also be non-discriminatory, i.e. neutral, and how should a few get to it if one is to have a winemaking there? You must select the wines for which you want to test. Then a priority will be given to some emblems rather than others and will break with the non-discriminatory role of the Vinmonopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e334	It was a little short time to take up the wine monopoly especially in my post, and therefore I want to do it now, when it was first brought on the track again. The wine monopoly is doing a very good job and is a very good store, not just for the treasury, but to practice the alcohol policy that we want in Norway today. There's a big uprising in the population around the wine monopoly system. In many ways – and personally – I should have liked to have seen that one could ‘modernize’ the wine monopoly, so that they could carry out tastings and follow up on what has been the theme now between the representative of the Advance Party and the representative of the Christian People’s Party. But I very much agree with what the rapporteur, Per Steinar Osmundnes of the Christian People's Party, said at the end of the day, that the neutral role of the Vinmonopolet is so important that we have to hold our tongue in our mouths. And then we might not be able to meet everything that we might want to do under the auspices of the Vinmonopolet. So finally a little bit about this with the plan and the prospects for the wine monopoly. I think it's a little bad that we're now moving away from a plan. I had hoped that more people could join in on a proposal that we should have a simplified four-year country plan for the development of the wine monopoly sales network. I think it's right and important, so that the monopoly of wine, through popular governance, is given a hint that one wants to spread these sales in such a way that the monopoly of wine, at the most, respects its right and obligation to give equal availability, and so that the monopoly of wine cannot be accused of taking a market and profit perspective in the future establishment of new sales. Such an accusation may undermine the desire to maintain the monopoly of wine as an alcohol policy tool. In addition, it is important that this is spread out in such a way that the digestion and consensus you have on the wine monopoly system today can be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e343	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e359	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e366	In the proposal of representatives Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Per Sandberg, the proposers pointed out that the municipalities could not be subject to review by the county council of reimbursement by appeals against the decisions before the judiciary. These are, therefore, costs that individual municipalities may incur for particularly resource-intensive users. And that those costs can be high, we know. I know of a case in my own municipality where there were several million kroner. The proposers state five reasons which require the courts to review the decisions of the county council. One is that decisions taken by the county council cannot be reviewed by the higher administrative organ, and without appeal to the courts, the decision will be final. The proposers also state that equality of law requires that the decision should be subject to review, as otherwise differences could arise in the basis of the decisions of the various statesmen. Furthermore, it should be stated that the municipalities should not be weaker than the other legal entities do. A fourth element is that the principle of municipal autonomy requires that the decisions of the county council be subject to judicial review. And finally, the proposers say that it is likely to be contrary to the Convention on Local Self-Government that municipalities are not allowed to review such state decisions in law. The Committee has not supported the proposers. The reason for this is that, in the case of appeals for individuals, where their interests are to be taken care of, it must be quite clear that there is to be an appeal. But the things we are talking about here are not to be regarded as dealing with individual matters. It will not be the case that the individuals affected here will necessarily have a strong interest in the fact that one or the other municipality will bear the financial responsibility. The central concern will be the care of their interests, as described in both the Social Services Act and the Child Protection Act. In some cases it concerns both legislation at once. The consequences of the decision being taken by the county council may be several. What should not be overlooked is that there is not so little stigmatizing for a single user who, because of a type of disability – we know some of them because of the client reform, which came under the HVPU concept in the past – must experience that the legal system is to determine which municipality they are considered to be resident in or that is to have obligations towards them. Preferably, the argument will be about not having to bear that responsibility itself. It is relatively stigmatizing for the individual and could be experienced as a significant load. The Committee has also stressed that the central point for municipalities must be to cover the real additional costs involved. The central point must not be whether one or the other municipality is responsible, but that one actually has a system that ensures this in a good way. That is why the Committee has also made two different proposals. One proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the Government review the guidelines on the granting of compensation to municipalities for additional costs to particularly resource-intensive users, based on the objective of reducing time from recognised needs to compensation and presents the outcome of the review of the Stortinget as part of the 2006 Municipal Economic Proposition.’» This proposal also takes account of some of the intentions of the proposers, namely to ensure that compensation procedures are in place so that it does not impose unreasonable costs on the municipalities. Another aspect raised by the proposers is that different practices in different county offices may develop when access to appeals is not available. The Committee has also adopted the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to organise procedures for the registration and evaluation of local authorities’ disputes for resource-intensive users treated by the State and to present how such arrangements should take place to the Stortinget as part of the 2006 municipal economic proposal.’;» In this way, the majority of the Committee has taken on board important elements of the proposal, but has therefore not fully supported the proposal, since appeals are still not open to the courts. However, we hope that this can ensure that not least clients are well cared for. If I can add something for my own part, I would like to say that I think that the proposal is very much focused on the municipalities and to a very small extent on the people who are affected, to whom it is, after all, the key thing to take care of – it concerns both the clients and their relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e401	I think the representative, Mr Ballo, made a good introduction, explaining the very proposal and the background to it. I support that, and I will therefore, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, only promote the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e406	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e409	The rapporteur, Mr Gunnar Ballo, has presented the proposal by the rapporteurs, Mr Meltveit Kleppa and Mr Per Sandberg, so I shall not do it again. I believe, on behalf of the proposers, that it is positive that at least we have reached agreement in the Committee on Two Proposals, namely that the Government has to review ‘the guidelines for granting compensation to municipalities for additional costs to particularly resource-intensive users’, so that this leads to a reduction in the time from one has recognised the need for compensation and to this be compensated. Furthermore, it is also important, at least when the majority does not go beyond what they do, that the Government review the procedures for evaluating the disputes of resource-intensive users in such a way that they become similar to practice, and that an overview of how this is handled is provided. I am disappointed that the majority could no longer be involved in relation to what is mentioned in Document No. the 8th proposal, so that, in some cases, the decision of the county council may be tried before the courts in relation to the social services law and the law on child protection services. A long comment has been made here from the Progress Party and the Central Party to which I refer, which takes this into account that the municipalities should not be weaker in terms of the possibility of appeals to the courts than other bodies, and that the decision of the county council, when it cannot be further dealt with in a complaint system in public, should be a basis for judicial review. In this context, reference is also made to international regulations that may be relevant here and that should allow you to go a little further. It seems that in many municipalities it is very frustrating that a person is almost impossible to do so, and thus feels unwarranted in relation to having a decision that one believes has been wrongly made by the county council. What is also important here is that one gets these matters dealt with quickly. The majority of the committee says that the money should be used for the client and for the residents of the municipality. We agree with that, even in the minority. In fact, we believe that it is not a good enough argument that one says that when the state compensates for resource-intensive users, it doesn't matter which municipality the user sorts under, and which municipality is responsible. This is not true, for there are nevertheless large outflows that must be made here before the level of compensation and arrangements of the country break down. As case-rapporteur Olav Gunnar Ballo said, this is about very large sums for individual clients. I believe that the possibility to appeal to the courts should not go beyond the client. There are also clear rules for this. The municipality in which the client is resident must, of course, be responsible. But it's a matter of clarifying who has the financial responsibility and who has to take it for the future. It is quite clear that this should not be a system that should go beyond the individual user. It is worth noting that the Minister of Health and Welfare, in a letter to the Committee of 10 November, refers to the Bernt Committee and that one will not continue the provisions on disputes there. The committee believes that the current rules are not good enough. The Bernt committee comes up with other solutions to this. The responsibilities of the local authorities shall be laid down in a regulation which may, by reference to the rules, be subject to review by the courts. In our opinion, it would have been right to take a round on this and have it clarified already now, so that the municipalities do not have to have the regime that is, and that some municipalities believe is very incomplete. We know that things are going on today at this level as well, and there are a number of municipalities that are asking for clarification as soon as possible for that reason. Without intervening in what is the issue of each case in concrete terms, I had hoped that Stortinget could resolve this matter through this Document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e426	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 193]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e441	On 12 June 1997 the Stortinget Government asked the Government to assess the need for changes in the Maritime Declaration Institute. The proposal for a decision of the Economic and Social Committee was unanimously endorsed by the Stortinget. It was promoted as a majority proposal to improve safety at sea. The majority of the Committee expressed its views, inter alia: att «in view of the specific nature and competence needs of the seafarer profession, it is important that seafarers take part in the first instance in the clarification of the cause of marine casualties. However, one does not overlook the fact that today’s maritime declarations have not been developed in line with the challenges facing industry and the frequency of accidents for ships. In this context, the majority will ask the Government to assess the need for changes in the Maritime Declaration Institute’. There is a good deal of work between this decision and today, among others. by a committee entrusted with the task of drawing up a NOU. It was NOU 1999:30 Investigation of marine casualties. It is therefore with satisfaction that the Committee today stresses that there is a unanimous position to be put forward. We support both the work done in NOU 1999:30, and the work done by the Government to change the Maritime Declaration Institute. The proposal provides for the abolition of the old maritime declaration system for marine casualties and the establishment of a permanent investigation authority, as referred to in the legislative proposal. The amendments proposed in the Maritime Act are a follow-up to the proposals found in NOU 1999:30. In addition to amendments to the Maritime Act, there are also minor amendments to the Law on Courts, the Law on Seafarers, the Law on Criminal Procedures and the Act on Petroleum Activities. The changes we have dealt with in the Maritime Act now give us a permanent investigative authority. The background is that the Maritime Declaration Institute scheme did not seem appropriate. The Maritime Committee considered that the combination of accident investigations and the location of civil and criminal liability, to which the current rules provide, is, in principle, unlucky and of little use. One therefore proposes that the issue of civil and criminal liability should be treated as in other areas of life. This means that the main task of the new permanent investigation authority is to work with maritime safety. The laws do not specify the body to be added to by the permanent investigation authority, but the Government proposes to add it to a joint accident commission on aviation, rail and maritime accidents. That is to say, they are expanding the current Civil Aviation and Railway Disaster Commission. This committee seems to be a sensible proposal. It is not yet proposed in law in the proposition. The government will first, as it says, gather experience in dealing with the different transport areas in the same Commission before drafting a legislative proposal that brings this together in a common law. The biggest change that the new law will bring about is that we will now have a permanent marine casualty commission tasked with investigating maritime accidents by identifying the course of events and causal factors, and investigating matters of importance for the prevention of maritime accidents and the improvement of maritime safety. This is important to underline. The study shall form part of a report containing conclusions and recommendations on actions that should be implemented to improve maritime safety in Norway. Once this report has been submitted, the task of the Disaster Commission has been completed. The identification of criminal liability in the event of an accident shall be a task for police and prosecution authorities, while private law issues shall similarly be a task for the private parties concerned. This is neat and clarify the division of tasks and responsibilities in a much better way than the maritime explanation system, which we have today. It is also important to stress that the new investigative authority should have a stand-alone and independent position and that this is important in order to achieve trust and respect for its work. Since this is a unanimous committee position, I am not going to go into the individual paragraphs of the legislative amendments in detail. But I would like to refer to the enquiries we have received from, among others. The Skagerrak Foundation, in the treatment of this odelstningsproposition. The recordings they've given us, and the correspondence we've had with the Minister of Justice, have been useful in clarifying a few aspects of the bill. Among other things, we have checked the possibilities for the Norwegian authorities to investigate all maritime accidents where Norwegian interests are strongly affected, but where the ship sails under a foreign flag. Here it is not possible to follow up the wishes we have received from the hearing bodies, as this is contrary to international law. Furthermore, this is a legislative proposal which is fully supported both by the hearing bodies and by the Economic and Social Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e478	In the interests of health, the environment and safety, it is important that we have the best possible safety at sea. We have a coastline in Norway where many live to reap from nature or from tourism, and where nature is vulnerable. Very many Norwegians are also regular passengers on board ships, either as daily ferry passengers to and from work or as leisure travellers. And not least we have the seafarers on board the ships to think about. Safety at sea is therefore of fundamental importance to Norway, and in my work on maritime law, I am committed to focusing on the fact that the legislation should contribute to the development, security and consolidation of this security as far as possible. In this context, thorough investigation of the causes of a maritime accident is very important, as it allows us to learn from what went wrong and led to a maritime accident, so that we can prevent for the future. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee has given its unanimous support to the proposal for new rules on the investigation of marine casualties in a joint accident commission on transport accidents. I believe that this revision, with a completely new maritime accident investigation system, will provide a significant improvement in our understanding of why maritime accidents occur, so that we can better prevent such accidents. When a maritime accident investigation is introduced into a joint accident commission for the transport sector, the maritime accidents will be investigated on the same reading as are currently being investigated in the field of aviation accidents. There will be extensive studies by experts in the field, in an independent commission and in a context where witnesses can feel safe. The investigation will focus on the causes of the accident. Issues of guilt and responsibility are left completely out of the question. This is a form of investigation suitable for producing all relevant facts relating to the accident. Today's system doesn't work well enough in that way. In addition to this significant improvement in the investigation mechanism itself, I would like to emphasise that the proposal also means that more attention will be paid to the investigation of near-accident accidents involving passenger ships. Nearer accidents involving passenger ships, where there is no damage, but where there was nevertheless a significant risk of a serious accident, are not necessarily investigated under the maritime law today. I think it's important to change this. For the prevention of maritime safety work related to passenger ships, I think it is very much to go through investigating the near-accidents. I have therefore proposed a new system whereby all near-accident incidents involving Norwegian passenger ships are to be investigated, and I am pleased that the committee has agreed to this. Furthermore, I would also like to stress that the new accident commission will carry out investigations on several different types of fishing boat accidents than is the case under the current system, with a specific investigation commission for certain fishing fleet accidents. Experience from these studies will in the long term contribute to increased safety in this industry, which is so important along our coast. Finally, I would like to highlight the new rules on accident investigation in Norway with foreign ships. Today, it is required by law that the Norwegian authorities are only entitled to investigate accidents involving foreign ships in Norway when the ship is in Norwegian port. There is no reason to maintain this restriction. In the proposal, I therefore propose rules whereby the Norwegian authorities should have the right to investigate all maritime accidents involving foreign ships in Norwegian waters, such as: the accident with ‘Rocknes’. Under the new rules, the Commission, if it so wishes, will have the right to investigate all maritime accidents involving ships flying the flag of another Member State occurring in Norway. Let me just end by saying that I believe that this bill will lead to an improvement in the competence of Norway in understanding which factors are the most central to preventing marine accidents. It will therefore be a milestone for the overall maritime safety work in Norway when the new accident commission comes up and goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e508	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 193]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e521	The Odelsting should then be ready to go to voting. The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is over. But the president assumes that it's okay for everyone that we do away with voting before we finish the meeting. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e530	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 3, by Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on the proposals No. 4–6, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party The President first takes note of the proposals. 2, 3 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e577	The President will first vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 2 June 1989 No. 27 on the marketing of alcoholic beverages, etc. The following shall be amended as follows:Article 1-7a, first subparagraph, shall be replaced by the following:In assessing whether authorisation should be granted, the municipality may, inter alia, focus on the number of outlets, the nature of the site, location, target group, accessibility of disabled persons, traffic and orderly conditions, industrial policy considerations and consideration of the local environment. Consideration shall also be given to whether the application for authorisation, directors, alternates and persons referred to in the first paragraph of Section 1-7b are suitable for holding and/or exercising the authorisation.Articles 3 to 2 new second sentence shall be replaced by the following:A condition may also be laid down that the place of sale shall comply with the requirements for the availability of disabled persons required by the law.Articles 4 to 3 new second sentence shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e849	The Progress Party has notified that it is against §§ 1-7 third paragraph, 1-7 b and 1-8 third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e895	To these paragraphs there is an aberrant proposal, No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 2 June 1989 No. 27 on the marketing of alcoholic beverages n.e.c. The following shall be amended as follows:Sections 1 to 9 new third subparagraph shall be replaced by the following:The granting authority may at any time require access to the premises of the point of sale and the venue, including requiring the necessary information on the operation of the holder of the authorisation. The fourth sentence of the first paragraph of Section 1-10 shall be replaced by the following:If the application for a new authorisation is not finally decided by the municipality within three months, the municipality shall authorise the continuation of the previous authorisation until final treatment has taken place in the municipality.The fourth sentence shall be the fifth sentence.’ Alternatively, between the respective paragraphs of the vote and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e922	The rest of the paragraphs shall be added to the paragraphs and to the other paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e1094	For these paragraphs there is an aberrant proposal, No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 3 to 3 of the second sentence shall be replaced by the following: The Governing Council of the European Communities shall determine the maximum number of outlets for the AS Vinmonopolet within the municipality.§ 3 to 4, first paragraph, first and second sentences shall be replaced by the following: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. - Twenty. On the day before Sundays and public holidays, the sale shall end at 1 p.m. 18.00.§ 3-4, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:Sales of the AS Vinmonopolet shall be prohibited on Sundays and public holidays, 1st and 17th May, Christmas, New Year's Eve, Easter and Pentecost.» Alternatively, between the respective paragraphs of the vote and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e1122	It shall be added to the other paragraphs and to the sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e1579	The President will vote on proposal No. 4, of the Progress Party, repealing Chapter 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e1610	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e1647	The President will vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e1671	We're voting on the second option.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e1724	The position as IV-VII is corrected to III-VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e1736	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e1746	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e1758	Here, the President will draw attention to another correction. the second paragraph of point B is deleted; The corrected B is referred to: ‘Document No. 8:79 [[2003-2004]] There is an aberrant proposal, No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 8 to 12 shall be deleted.’; Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e1788	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e1803	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on I and II shall be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e1813	In this context, the Committee's position will be replaced by the proposal from the Party of Advancement and the Centre, which reads as follows: «Law No 13 December 1991 81 on social services etc. The following shall be amended:The second paragraph of Section 10-3 shall be replaced by the following:The decision of the State in dispute may be brought before the courts. [[Social Services Act]] All aspects of the decision may be reviewed. 100 on child protection services is amended as follows:The second paragraph of Section 8-3 is replaced by the following:The decision of the county council in dispute proceedings may be brought before the courts. All pages of the decision may be tried.IIIThe law shall be implemented immediately.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e2205	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e2215	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-06-lower.ana.ud274e2226	There is no record.
