ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e53	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, it is a pleasure for me to greet the President of the Hungarian Parliament, Dr. Katalin Szili, with a delegation, welcome to official visits to Norway and here to the Stortinget. [[It clapps.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e71	It's in the municipalities people cage. The municipalities are one of the cornerstones of our democracy. They are responsible for services that are fundamentally important to people. The centre party will call on the local welfare service. We want school and care, kindergarten, culture and nutrition where people live. We mean a short distance between those who make the decisions and the people who make the decisions is a self-esteem that it's important to take care of. The municipal sector is under pressure. There is currently a lack of consistency between resources and tasks. There are still reforms, bigger or smaller, without the funding being clarified. Municipalities come into disrepute between required residents and imposes from the state. The state is knitting around. State takeover of tasks that local authorities are now doing in a forward-looking way is still the topic. The last one is the government takeover of the tax collection. Many municipalities deliver great values to the big community without retaining enough resources for basic welfare services. Skular is laid down, care services are centralised. You have to change the structure. Governments have stated a number of times that if local authorities are not able to speed up merger processes, the state will be forced through structural reform. This deviation from the Court's fundamental view that municipal mergers should be voluntary and locally initiated. It also deviates from the clear wording of Prime Minister Bondevik that coercion is not a government's policy. The Council of State did not allow itself to be defamed, whatever the local populace, the inhabitants of a municipality and its own prime minister say – it must have far fewer municipalities than today. I want to challenge the Council of State whether it has real arguments. Have the recent municipal convergences given positive effects in relation to the economy, the provision of services and the strengthening of local democracy? Three questions are important to clarify. For the first economy: Governments often produce economies as an important element. Is there any evidence to claim that it is really money to save? Does it count on any conversion costs? We see in the transformation of state agencies, and we know from merger processes in the private sector, that such changes often have major consequences both costly and not least for them to add. Are such factors considered? Secondly, the strongest argument from the Council of State in these days seems to be the need for labour. The need for more rational use of labour is also argued. 41 pst. of all those added to the local government sector are in part-time settings. This means that there is a significant reserve of labour in the municipalities. However, the government has no overview of how the local labour force is divided. How, then, can the lack of labour and the need for better use of labour be an argument? The government seems to use incorrect figures about the employment rate in the municipal sector. It may seem that this is being done deliberately to tighten up the municipal budget. The fact that the Government does not really have an overview of the employment situation in the municipal sector is reflected in the answers to questions put to the Ministry of Finance by the Central Party’s large-scale group in connection with the 2004 government budget. It is dramatic if the decision-making basis of the Government is as weak as they express in the answer to the Central Party. One of the key points when the Government is talking about tightening up and improving efficiency in the public sector and municipal convergence, is that this is imperative in terms of total employment. The government doesn't tell me that a very large proportion of the employees in the municipal sector are part-time employees. In 2000 was 32 p.m. of the municipalities added in part-time settings, while the corresponding in the state and in the private sector were respectively 7 and 13 pst, according to the SSB’s figures. In 2002, 41 p.m. of local government employees in part-time settings, while in the state and private sectors there were about 20 pst. part-time added. The government seems to be basing its forecasts for growth in municipal employment on the number of added, not on the number of annual jobs. The local sector thus appears to have a strong increase in employment over a period of time, while the employment in the State and private sectors has been more stable. If one calculates employment in the number of annual works, throughout the 1990s, the municipal sector has played relatively stable on the other side of 20 pst. of the total employment. These numbers are smaller than the corresponding numbers in Sweden and Denmark. The political lease in the Ministry of Local Affairs claims that it was 60 p.m. several local authorities are added in a few years. This is how they spread the impression that Kommune-Noreg has experienced a tree. It is not correct! The high proportion of part-time settings in the local government sector blurs this image. The high proportion of part-time settings are related to poor municipal economy. This is an active grip from the municipalities to adapt to the tight frameworks provided by the Government for the sector. At the same time, we know that there is a great need to strengthen the staff both in the care of the elderly and in the school. It is true that many people who are currently in part settings want a larger part of the job. The government uses the employment argument heavily in its argument for changes in the local government sector, but does not seem to have an overview of the employment situation in the municipalities. Thirdly, the Council of State still claims that the municipalities, especially the small municipalities, will not be able to acquire sufficient professional skills in the future. What cover does it have for this claim? What is needed in municipalities is the division of tasks, the future of the regional level, and not least the ability of local authorities to adapt their services to local circumstances. There is little doubt that inter-municipal cooperation can solve the competence challenges in municipalities. The size of municipalities does not determine if it is an attractive job. It's just as much about the environment, about security in the job, and about resources being related to the tasks. So this is a matter of community economics! Then there is reason to ask: What kind of empire does the government build upon when it highlights the need for community planning? Is it money to save on municipal mergers when considering conversion costs, centralisation costs and the transfer of costs from the municipality to the inhabitants? What studies does the Council of State base on when it discusses the employment needs of the municipal sector in the future? Does the department know something they didn't know in December about the level of employment reserve in making better use of part-time work? What are the tasks that cannot be resolved intermunicipally, and that therefore require larger units? I will sum this up in the following challenges: economic employment competence
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e123	I was going to answer the question of the interpellation that the representative has submitted, which is therefore a question of what professional experience we have. I have to say that I am tempted to respond to the harang of both misinterpretations, mistrust and other arguments that are now based on the very mention of the interpellation. I'll come back to some of those points eventually. But I would like to stress that when an interpellation is promoted, it is the interpellation text that, for me, is the most important thing to answer. And I assume that's how you've calculated the interpellation to work. As has been explained earlier in the Storting, the assumption of volunteering in the case of municipal associations is established by the Government. The picture that the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa draws from what I have said, namely that the state should in any case make changes to the municipal structure, is therefore not correct. That statement she gets to cover with a clear quote if she's still going to use it. So what I have said is that, in the future, we need to assess whether we are willing to take the consequences for the welfare society and for our welfare state of not making changes in the municipal sector, and the opportunity we have to have in 2006. I believe that we get a better public sector if at least we have 100-150 fewer municipalities, and I will explain that later. We have, in cooperation with the Municipal Councils, launched a cooperation project on municipal structure. What I have said on several occasions is that if the cooperation project with the Municipal Councils' Central Associations against Presumption does not deliver results, it will be up to the Stortinget to assess whether the voluntary line, as it has been designed today, should remain firm, or whether it should be amended. An indication of the results will be given during the spring of 2005, when the local authorities are to give their opinion on the different breakdown options that are relevant to their municipality. I intend to provide the Stortinget with a briefing on the cooperation project in spring 2006. In this context, it is up to Stortingen, in line with the division law we have, to assess whether we are going to use other instruments than those that are inside today. When you go back to the question of what evidence you have of the consequences of municipal associations, I would like to give a brief explanation of what has happened to municipal associations, and what experience we have with it. In recent times, as we know, we have had two rounds of associations of municipalities. The first reform, carried out in the 1960s, mainly included rural municipalities. The aim was also to enable the smallest municipalities to participate in the construction of the Norwegian welfare community. At that time, it was clear that the whole reform was about enabling municipalities to be wide enough administratively able to participate in the building of the welfare society. If the nine-year primary school were to be implemented as a national reform, it was considered necessary for the smallest municipalities to have a larger population base as a basis for better administrative capacity and competence. The associations reduced the number of municipalities by 290 – from 744 to 454. For various reasons, inter alia: The question of where the centre was to be located, which was the most important, was later divided into ten of these municipalities. No systematic studies were carried out on the effects of these concentrations. However, there are summaries in various public documents which conclude that the division reform has been necessary to enable municipalities to take on important welfare tasks and become entrepreneurs and promoters in the development of the public welfare offer. A 1965 election survey asked the voters who were affected by the split changes whether they agreed or disagreed with the changes. 50 pst. of the voters agreed that the municipality they lived in became part of a larger municipality, while 30 pst. disagreed. 20 pst. did not take a position on the question. In view of the resistance with which the divisional reform started, these results, together with the fact that only 10 of the 290 municipalities were later divided, show that the experience in general was judged to be good. The second round of associations took place between 1988 and 1994 and concerned the division around enclosed urban municipalities. The main objective of these associations was to facilitate better coordinated land and resource disposal. There is still a theme that is important in several other areas. For me, the municipal division question is divided into two. One concerns those municipalities that administratively need to have a broader professional base than they have today, in order to be able to operate a welfare offer, and which have problems in recruiting their skills, which determines what welfare services will gradually be provided in these areas. The second is the question of coordinated land and resource disposal, which is about the urban areas and the way they work. In terms of these associations – there were eight urban extensions – we have a little more systematic experience. The experiences of the first three associations, Larvik, Tønsberg and Horten, build among others. on an evaluation by researchers. Two to three years after the association, one might sum up that one has gained a strengthening of the capacity and competence of the Vesfold municipalities, as was the case with municipalities in the 1960s. In the case of the Vestfold municipalities, specialisation, i.e. increased competence in individual areas, has been particularly important. In the short term, administrative costs did not decrease. On the other hand, the level of service provision was evened out in relation to the differences that existed between the former self-employed units. The main objective of the associations also appears to be to create better conditions for coordination, planning and development. This was particularly the case with land-use planning. With regard to the last five associations in the 1990s, Sarpsborg, Arendal, Hamar and Hammerfest in 1992 and Fredrikstad in 1994, there was a project work between the municipalities, the central federation of the municipalities and the department summarising experience in terms of both the processes and effects on the municipal activity. Since the summaries were made close to the merger dates, knowledge of the processes themselves would be better than in terms of the results of the combination. However, they collectively sum up that the associations include, inter alia: has provided better conditions for more coordinated spatial planning, in particular since the new municipal borders made it possible to see the residential, service and labour markets as a whole. So that was the main goal of these associations. They also point out that the level of competence was raised through specialisation and broader professional environments. They also considered that local business conditions were improved, in particular by the ability of municipalities to improve capacity and competence, but also by reducing localisation difficulties and thus making more efficient use of resources on basic investments. These summaries also indicate that the service provision is balanced between the former municipalities. The availability of the population to the municipal administration was somewhat impaired as a result of the associations. This was primarily due to the fact that the new administration was often spread over several buildings, which made it more difficult for citizens to have an overview. Efferent summaries have some methodological problems, including: is it very difficult to isolate the effects of what happens because of the combination, from what happens in relation to very many other changes around the municipalities in relation to the framework conditions. Therefore, there are many other framework conditions that will also affect how municipalities change after a municipal association. We are now working on a methodological review of the 2002 Community of Re in relation to the population, the economy, the pre- and post-employment situation and a qualitative study of different parts of the organisation of the association process. Two research studies have recently been carried out that have considered the consequences of previous breakdown changes. One relates to the importance of the municipal structure for local and regional social development work and has been carried out by Møreforschung. In the study, researchers have looked at the impact of the Sarpsborg and Fredrikstad associations on their ability to be development actors – and I hope that the interpellant is also involved is an important role for a municipality. It is concluded that the concentrations of municipalities have resulted in significant gains in these densely developed regions. The combined municipalities have managed to achieve significant specialisation and empowerment in the work of social development, and municipalities have improved land planning, better functioning centres and reduced land use. There can also be a positive impact on interaction with business as a result of a more relevant and specialised knowledge of the community organisations. What is typical of all the implementations we have had, with the exception of Re Municipality, which we are evaluating, is that these municipalities have been large and not small municipalities. The challenges in small municipalities are different. But I would like to stress a surprising finding in the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research relating both to the associations of the 1960s and to the newer associations, namely that the strongest sense of connection and identity with the municipality is found in municipalities in Norway with between 30,000 and 50,000 inhabitants, i.e. not small municipalities in Norwegian context. In my view, the aim of community associations is to increase the well-being of the population. I'm going to come back to the questions that are most crucial in relation to the interpellant's posts now, but the experience so far actually shows that the divisions and changes we have had have given positive effects on what has been the objective of the different groups. We have improved the quality of small municipalities since the 1960s and better planning in urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e157	I thank the Council of State for its answer. I think it is important in the debate that is now going to take place in each municipality, that the experience that has been gained over the last few years in relation to municipal mergers comes to light. I can then see that the Council of State here says that systematic investigations have not taken place. I can then interpret it, in sum, so that there is something mixed experience. I think she will agree that both in the Fredrikstad area and in the Arendal area, there is a great deal of wear and tear, a great deal of expense, which has also been brought to the Committee. I also think she will agree with the chairman of Re's argument that it was not economic that was decisive when Ramnes and Våle took the initiatives that they did. So I want to challenge the Council of State on what it says about the bias in service provision in the merged municipalities. That means that someone has improved their offer, and that means that someone has reduced their offer, as I interpret the Council of State. Would it deepen in relation to whether there are services that have been more centralised? When it comes to economics, it's a fact that the hundreds of smallest municipalities get only 5 pst. of the total transfers to the local government sector. In these municipalities, there are long distances, and there are schools and care and decentralised services that are the major costs. Is it now such that it shifts the focus from these smaller municipalities with long distances to municipalities located around the municipalities, and thinks that they have special challenges when it comes to land and other needs? So finally, I don't understand the claim of misinterpretation and misinterpretation and distortion of her argument. It must be that the argument about economics, employment and competences is an important part of both the experience that has been gained and the debates that are now to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e168	Suspicion and suspicion are two things. First of all, the absolute misquote of the interpellant, or a lack of citation, and the claim of what I have said about coercion. The second point is what has not been said this time, but that usually always comes from central party teams, that is, the reason why the municipal economy is the way it is, is that we're going to have municipal associations. I think it is a difficult way to hold a political debate if democracy in Norway is going to depend on having parties not talking true about other parties, as a background for creating a political debate. And for a party that's concerned about keeping democracy by the same, as they say then, I actually think it would have been more tiring to relate to reality and what you actually say than to have a consistent mistrustful interpretation of everything that had to be said. With regard to the three questions that have been raised in addition to the question of interaction itself, about the experience, I want to stress one thing: yes, there are two different issues of association. One issue concerns the small-scale problems of the municipality and the competence and quality of the services provided. And it's actually a challenge, among other things. in child protection, where studies show that nearly 50 pst. the municipalities of the country do not have sufficient competence to deal with the difficult and heavy child-resistance issues. And then the question is, would it be effective for a small municipality to have that kind of competence? No, not necessarily, because there will be so few things that it will be hard to sit with. We know it from complaints, we see it in planning and building councils as well, that there is a lack of competence to assess the heavy and complicated issues. Some have asked questions about the fact that, for example: in the large extension of the Augra now hires five people to work on it. I don't think we'll ever get away with that in a municipal structure debate, but it's a competence problem. I fully agree that intermunicipal cooperation is an answer to some of these problems. But for me, it's also a question of democracy how much intermunicipal cooperation you can have. Because if a person moves child protection out – and I am a hot member of a child protection unit that is to be involved in the prevention phase and not in the repair phase – in an inter-municipal cooperation, it loses contact with other municipal institutions that are important for prevention work. Then one has to move out of the PPT service, then one has to move out of the health care care service, and finally one has to sit outside with units that are, in fact, much more difficult politically. We have many good attempts in these areas, but in the long run, there is actually more expert government and less politician government by building many such construction works between municipalities. The question then is, wouldn't it have been better to have one municipality that builds around this, and one local government that is responsible for that type of establishment, rather than perhaps having to report to four to five, with the lack of contact with other public institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e177	The issue of municipal integration is a topical issue, not only in Stortinget, but in many of our municipalities as well. It is also the case that the Municipal Councils have had and now have a wide and extensive involvement in the matter. In the Labour Party, we have recently developed a separate advice on important municipal policy issues, where the issue of municipal structure is one of those undergoing thorough treatment. We are now going to have an internal debate on the issues and aim to debate the issue at our national meeting in the spring of 2005. The question of municipal integration is also difficult and controversial. Of course, it creates political unrest in some environments that community membership can lead to a weakening of the rule of law and a reduction in the prevalence of many of our local communities. There are also many people who are anxious that community ties can lead to a greater distance between the inhabitants and the people who are elected, and that, in turn, there can be greater distance in the provision of services. I would also like to point out that in the debate there is one point that I do not think has been subject to strong and comprehensive assessment. That's the question of costs, then I'm thinking about both the economics and the human beings, by increasing travel distances. There must be a theme that also matches the overall rating. I think that when we are going to discuss municipal union, we have to believe that there have been major changes in the communication pattern in our country over the last decade, that the labour market has changed, and that we have definitely got bigger employment and employment. In a more complex society, we also have a greater need for more specialised labour in the municipal sector. I think it has to be a point that we stick to a good bureaucracy, but the costs of bureaucracy, even in the municipal sector, I think I have to be the lowest possible. So this has to be one of the points that we have to look at carefully. There have been major societal changes since the Schei Committee did its important work in the 1950s, and these changes need to be brought with us when we are discussing municipal union and municipal structure. I think there is a need for a serious assessment in the matter. We've got a new terrain. A new map must be drawn, and it is the local people who must be the chief architect when drawing that map, not the Stortinget and not the local and regional minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e192	In my opinion, the fear of local associations is greatly exaggerated. Most preoccupations have not happened. And we have a lot of examples of that. Nevertheless, the fear of discussing this topic is still widespread, including in this room, we hear. As a major representative of Vestfold – the country that has undergone the most significant changes in the municipal structure in the last 20 years – I have a good basis for presenting some experiences. From 1988, the number of municipalities in Westfold has been reduced from 21 to 14. I'm not going to say that all this has gone painless. Conversion and change can be very demanding. It's also been in Westfold. But the experience of Westfold tells us that new opportunities are being opened up, new dynamics are being created, better services are being provided to citizens, and municipalities have been given the opportunity to establish a less vulnerable economy. In 1988, there were three so - called confined cities in Westfold that were given the opportunity to join good neighbors. Larvik, Hedrum, Brunlanes, Tjölling and Stavern became Larvik. Shem and Tønsberg became Tønsberg, and Horten and Borre became Borre, who relatively recently again took the name Horten. It is quite illustrative that the question of what the municipality should be called after a while became the big issue. Even in 1987, I was the rapporteur of the then Sem municipality, a sober and relatively rich municipality according to the conditions of the date. We had money in the bank, and the total municipal taxes on water, sewerage, renovation and sweeping were NOK 162.50. It was a challenge to convince the indigenous population that the future was to join the neighbouring municipality, which had more than ten times as high municipal taxes and, in addition, property taxes. In addition, Tønsberg had more debt than money in the bank. But on the plus, they had good babysitting, owned their own power plant and had reasonable energy. The merger was a happiness for both. As the Council of State had in its reply to the interpellant, the success of this association was particularly reflected in spatial planning. The requirement for coordination and planning was completely changed. For the inhabitants, it also provided better services. You could just pick it up from each of the two municipalities. Competence was improved and expanded. Administratively, the gain was not particularly high in the early days. The personnel service was well taken care of, so a little bit double up here and there it was. After a few years of adaptation, we took seriously the administrative transition – a much stronger user orientation, flat administrative structure and municipal activities organised in their own performance units. Today, few people want to return to old days. Success in Tønsberg was probably a bit of an inspiration for the two neighbouring municipalities in the hinterland, Ramnes and Våle, which became the municipality of Re in 2002. Here too, the experience is so good. My point is that most of the concerns about economics, services and local democracy were put to shame. In a startling short time, the success was all men's. Local democracy lives like never before, and I see a lot of opportunities. Maybe we should cultivate the possibilities and not just all the concerns?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e209	I have recorded that in a number of contexts, the Council of State has called for the other parties in the debate on municipal structure and also in the regional debate. I think that's a little strange, because my impression is that this debate has all the parties involved in it, but you have different angles of incidence. It also shows this debate. I think it is very important, and the Council of State is quite right, that we must now put a little more spotlight on this debate, for the Schei Committee, as the representative Sandal referred to, was set up in 1946, in fact, and I do not think we today, in 2004, have enough patience, and it will not create a better service for the citizens, if we are to have a long process in the same way as the Schei Committee had in its time. So I think we have to be quick, and then it's important and right that we take the debate. Then the question becomes simple. It is whether today's municipal structure and regional structure have been adapted to tomorrow's requirements for efficiency and adapted to the requirements that may come from citizens in the future. They're coming at us fast. There are requirements, as mentioned in previous speeches today, for the competence and content of the service provision and, in particular, for mobility. People are much more mobile. It is interesting to note today that State Council Meyer, a colleague of the State Council of Solberg, has gone out of handing out checks for the care of the elderly. We think that is a very interesting proposal, because it will affect structure and delimitation, by allowing the elderly themselves to choose services from the checks they have received from the Solberg and Meyer government councils. Then the boundaries become insignificant and will not have the effect that they have today. Although State Council Solberg has criticized me quite strongly for thinking in these paths in the past, there will be a reality in the long run. The progress party also has a process in progress, in line with the other batches. We actually had a debate about it at the national meeting. We have our own committee working on the matter. We have sent out a consultation note to our party groups around the whole country, and we will also have the big debate on this at our national meeting in spring 2005. Then there may be many blows at the various national meetings in spring 2005. We also have the Local Democratic Commission. We have the District Commission, of which I am a member. So I think in 2005 there will be a heated debate on this. Then we will probably also get results, and my hope is that the result will not take 20 years to set up, as it did with the Schei Committee's attitude in its time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e218	SV is open to community and county mergers, but we are very concerned that the initiative should come from below and that the debate should go freely. Then I have a comment that the Council of State is very upset that her motives are being questioned. It is not just representatives in this room who perceive it in a way that the main and underlying motive of the Government and the Council of State is to save money, so that less money can be spent on welfare and services and more money on taxation. It's out of your mind that if you don't do what we say, we're going to force you with economics. That derails the debate. It is probably scarce to encourage the Council of States to put the political ambitions aside, but I think she needs to understand the context in which this is interpreted. For SV, two main objectives need to be strengthened. One is democracy, participation and participation in people. It's the core of what makes our country a good country to live in and to be a state of law that people feel confident about. Then identity, availability and belonging are important. I think the Council of State is right that in many municipalities the identity is probably as strong as in small municipalities. But then there's the second question: Yes, do you have more belonging if it's ten miles to the next center, and it provides a better basis for the development of democracy? I think you have to ask that question. I don't think the answer is clear yes. The second is the improvement of welfare services. There is enough evidence that, in some cases, larger units may be needed in order to be able to recruit and to have a wide enough professional environment. But I react a little to the Council's argument when she uses the Child Protection Service as an example. Several municipalities have wanted to cooperate for a long time. I agree that if you put too many services into inter-municipal cooperation, you can have a democracy problem, because the local government must govern indirectly, and everyone must agree, otherwise everything will stop. But the argument against that if you have it in an intercommunal service, the cooperation with the municipal services can be bad, I have to say, does not hold. The consequence of this would have to be that all welfare services were at one level of administration, because if they are at different levels of administration, or in different structures, they are not working together. We can't have it that way in the public sector, no matter who it is. Those who are to cooperate with each other in order to provide a complete service to the users must do so. Then I fully agree that there is a big difference between the debate on what is called small municipalities, which in many cases can be giant municipalities with small populations, and municipalities that are around the city centres. There, in many cases, I believe that the argument about suitable and common housing and work regions is the most important, and there may be a simpler debate because belonging to the large geographical area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e229	The municipality is the main provider of basic welfare services. A well-functioning local democracy and a well-functioning municipal structure are therefore very important to ensure good and efficient services for the inhabitants. Unlike other framework conditions for the municipal sector, the municipal structure has remained relatively unchanged over the last 40 years. Several local boundaries can therefore be based on obsolete social structures and poorly adapted changes in transport, communication and infrastructure. In several sectors, we can face short-term shortages of skilled labour. In some parts of the country, I'm afraid the lack of access to labour will be a greater threat to the welfare community than the tight financial framework. In parallel with this, we see an ever-increasing demand for welfare services. Such a reality we must take inwards. Both central and local elected representatives need to be constantly in the process of developing a more robust, comprehensive and equivalent service provision, including all citizens. We must ensure that those with great care needs receive a satisfactory and individually adapted offer. This may mean that the municipal structure also needs to be reviewed critically. It is likely that several municipalities can benefit from joining forces, but the Christian People's Party does not want to force the merger of municipalities. Good local processes and interaction will provide good and functioning municipalities. But man has a fundamental responsibility for managing the creation. It concerns natural resources, economic and human resources. Goods are to be distributed according to the fact that all people are equally valuable. Christian human vision obliges us to protect our basis of life in such a way that we pass the world over to our descendants in the same good condition as when we were given responsibility for it. We cannot exempt the municipal administration from such thinking. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased with the process initiated between the KS and the Ministry of Local Affairs to review the municipal structure. It may also be that the widespread use of inter-municipal cooperation documents and confirms the need for changes and associations. How, then, should we meet the challenges we face? Firstly, the associations must be based on volunteering. This concerns the backbone of our political and democratic structure. Local debate and anchoring are therefore crucial. Secondly, both central and local politicians have a fundamental responsibility to assess which solutions provide the most well-being for the population. And last but not least, we have to meet the challenges with an open mind and an objective attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e242	Let me first get to grips with something that the Council of State said, where she almost made it a democratic problem that the Central Party was supposed to think that the Right is driving the economic victories of the municipalities. There is no democratic problem that the Central Party believes that the Right Party does. Let's not take our sail so solemnly. It has certainly been a few times that the Right has also assigned to the Center Party both opinions and opinions that we believe we have never had, but we have to bear that. There is no democratic problem. It's part of a mutual political challenge, and we have to endure it. And, of course, the best option for the Council of State and the Government to abolish what the Central Party believes is the right to impose, in terms of community mergers and coercion and economic vigilance, is to demand here today that it will at any time be relevant to use coercion as an instrument of municipal merger. For it must be allowed to say that it is highly unclear what the Government believes about the issue of coercion and volunteering related to the forthcoming process of the municipal structure. The Central Party considers that the process initiated between the Department and the KS should be allowed to proceed and should be allowed to rely on the principles underlying it. Nor should there be any background step in a possible coercion in the future related to community mergers. One must have respect for the process actually started, and for it to go its way as it does. The central party believes that the debate on municipal mergers that we have seen in the media tends to be very diabolical. Firstly, the Central Party believes that one must have greater respect for the inequalities in the municipalities. There is a big difference between merging two of the smaller municipalities in the east and merging two municipalities in Finnmark or two municipalities in the inner Namdalen, to put it that way. Sense if I have respect for the differences in municipalities, distance considerations and geographical distance must be taken into account as an important element if you see it as the Center Party, that proximity is an important criterion in itself – proximity to good services and proximity to the governance system that the municipality is. The Council of State was not concerned with the question of proximity as a criterion in itself, but for the Central Party it is an important criterion. We believe that if the objective is increased well-being, as the Council of State had in mind, it should be ensured that a non-communal merger is at risk of turning costs over to the inhabitants, in the sense that they are getting a longer distance from the services they need, and a longer distance from other services that the municipality can provide. It is a moment that needs to be included, especially in relation to municipalities where the geographical distances are large.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e259	A modern society needs an efficient and good municipal sector. The municipalities themselves are the pillars of the Norwegian welfare community. This also applies to the regional level between the country and the municipality. It is a fact that some tasks are too large for the very smallest municipalities, but municipal structures are also concerned with the kind of policies we should have in relation to district policy, local government involvement and participation and, not least, with the identity of people. Today's municipal structure was largely determined on the basis of the recommendations of the Schei Committee in the 1960s, and society has, of course, changed in all these years. Communication has improved and the build-up has changed in a more urban direction. The Ministry, with the Council of State at its head, has repeatedly and lately asserted that only the municipalities had been larger, could have delegated more tasks and decisions down to the municipalities. In this case, the Council of State is more unclear about what tasks this could be. It is also claimed by many that there are large administrative savings gains by merging municipalities. I'm sure that's something we can discuss. As I'm aware, both advisers, spokesmen and etat leaders are remunerated according to the population, so it's not so certain that this will still have the great savings potential. In 1995, the Stortinget decided that municipal mergers can only be carried out on a voluntary basis, and the Prime Minister has confirmed that this is also the Government's holding. Voluntaryness means, therefore, that residents in each municipality can offset disadvantages in such matters. Nevertheless, we see that the Government encourages aggregation by different economic incentives, and there is nothing wrong with it. Today, small municipalities are compensated for the costs of small business disadvantages by being able to provide the same services as the large municipalities. This compensation will be maintained by merged municipalities for a period of 10–15 years. Of course, this will stimulate aggregation. The challenge for municipalities is that this will not be given as a binding promise, because the government budget will be agreed for one year at a time. Political and economic promises thus do not become legally binding, because the Stortinge may change this at any time. This is a big and important debate, and my party will take this debate now in the next year until the national meeting next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e276	Community associations are not just economics. The question of municipal structure is about skilled labour, good trade unions and satisfactory welfare services. The question of municipal structure is also concerned with the potential for a region's positive development. Much has happened since the last time the municipality of Norway was in big change. Today, people move more. They work in one municipality, live in the neighbouring municipality, have relatives and friends in the third and may be located in the fourth municipality. This is not a reconstructed example, but a status report from my own home area, Grenland. There are 103 000 people living in an urban area consisting of four municipalities. Border has a common housing and labour market and has developed extensive inter-municipal cooperation over several years. Nevertheless, I would say that this is not good enough. Old Pors Foundation, Skien and Siljan should join one municipality, because today's challenges require new solutions and new municipal boundaries. Merging will make it possible to streamline the use of labour and capital, to increase growth and dynamism, to strengthen the attractiveness of the area towards industry, and to make better use of the potential of Border. So far time hasn't been ripe for one municipality, but I think it's coming. The debate on community mergers is mythical and overly emotional. I will kill one of the myths: larger municipalities do not mean that existing local political identities will be dissolved. A number of today’s larger municipalities have established urban democracies, and individual municipalities can decide how much internal decentralisation is desirable. It is a question of whether local democracy is not used as a rail argument to maintain a municipal structure that is over-mature for change. It's not really the number of kilometers to the city center that matters. Technology is well developed, and most people drive cars. That's the level of service, that's the life we give the inhabitants of each municipality, which means something. Developments have gone so far, and the challenges are so many in the future in relation to the quality of service provision and the labour force that we need to have a relaxed relationship with this and look at the new opportunities that new municipal boundaries can provide. For the time being, I am pleased that Kommune-Norway has taken up the debate on future municipal structure. In fact, there have been clear changes in attitudes, and it will be very interesting to see what comes out of the KS project that is now underway. I am sure there will be many debates in the future, and they will be more constructive than they have been so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e289	The centre party is not on the barricades of 434 municipalities in this country, but we are on the barricades to ensure that the initiative for any changes will be taken from below. We have supported local initiatives, and we will do so in the future. I find reason to recall that the central party people have been central to the changes that have taken place in Re Municipality, and also in the process towards the decision on the merger of Beer and Windfjord. I am very pleased with the clarification that has come from several parties today in this room when it comes to who is going to take the initiative here. As Reidar Sandal of the Workers' Party said so precisely, it is the people locally who are to be chief architect, not the Stortinget, nor the government that sits there at any time. Today, both the Central Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party have made it clear that volunteering is to be based. The Council of State has also said that. She feels somewhat misinterpreted. I'm going to give her a chance to cancel a quote that's been in a lot of newspapers, and I don't see her having refused. On 30 January 2004, I take the East German magazine to show one of several examples of a daily quote that has been used and is going to be used, and which she now has the possibility to cancel. The Council of State is quoted as follows: ‘The KS process must appear and the time is short. If we do not get results before KS starts its summary before spring 2005, we must leave the principle of volunteering, says Solberg to Dagbladet.’ So there's a daily quote that's been used as a background for a larger article, and the same thing has happened in many other cases. Then I might be a little surprised that the Christian People's Party here takes over the administration of the creation of income for an open fixture to municipal structure. I find reason to remind you that one of the most important things we can do in terms of managing the creation is to ensure a good growing-up environment, a good and free school and a more dignified care – that is, stand on the barricades of a better local economy. Finally, the framework conditions are important, said the Council of State. She has now reduced the economy, she has not responded satisfactorily when it comes to the employment argument, either when it comes to the competence argument. She has said that many tasks can be solved intermunicipally. It's a good alternative, and I'm happy to underline it to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e307	I have to admit that I am taking Marit Arnstad's posts as an admission that there is a strong coloring in the Center Party's argument. I agree that we should not be pretentious about democracy. But I want to say that one of the reasons we have an increasing political contempt in this country may be that the politicians color so much that matters are not recognizable, and that it is not possible to have a debate on social development without running purely party political coloring in order to try to twist and twist what others are saying. That's an answer I'd like to give when there's questions about what we're basing our employment forecasts on. It's in the Holden Committee's position, which shows – and it's not party politics, it's the social partners – that we're going to be missing 200,000 people in this country right after 2010 to be able to solve the problems we have today. That is why we are committed to generating labour without cutting down on competitive business. The purpose of the committee was to ensure that we had a business that could actually finance this. And we know that development is that in order to maintain the current level of care for the elderly, we need over 40,000 new annual works over the next ten years to solve the problems, with the age composition we have in this country. I agree that we can get more out of that more work. But there are also many volunteers who work part-time in the care sector. In fact, studies show that the majority of volunteers work part-time in the care sector in municipalities. We may have to do something to motivate women to work more, but there are many people who choose to work part-time. So to the question of volunteering or not. What I have said – and I admit that I have said – is that we need to have some scenarios for discussing what is going on in the future, because the municipal sector is the most important framework for our welfare solutions, and the most important framework for whether we are going to have a living local democracy. And with regard to the future scenarios: If the competence problems in the local government sector get bigger in some areas, would you be able to sit and see that the tasks remain municipal – because we don't want to do anything about the structure – if we don't get results? For me, it is going to be wrong in relation to the justification for local democracy and decentralisation, namely the relationship between services. I actually don't think this hall is going to sit and look at it. And when there are questions about what we could imagine to decentralize: we proposed to decentralize one part of the care of the community sector. What was the main argument we were met with? Well, the main argument was that many small municipalities were unable to solve the problem. It's actually one of the best examples from this room that municipal structure means something about what local democracy is allowed to do, because it means more government governance and more state takeover if you don't have robust enough municipalities to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e320	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e333	The Financial Committee has examined Document No. 8:53 with a proposal to remove VAT on the purchase of legal services. The value-added reform carried out in 2001 meant a general VAT obligation on the turnover of services from 1 July 2001. In dealing with this case, there was also a discussion of the obligation to pay a fee on the provision of legal services. In view of the fact that it was considered difficult to find criteria for the demarcation of other similar services and service providers, a general VAT rate was introduced on legal services in order to avoid distortions of competition. One would have difficult limitations for lawyers with several practices, as some services from lawyers would be subject to charges and some would not. A fee exemption, as proposed in this proposal, would in effect mean that a zero rate would be granted to service providers authorised by the Board of Supervisors. As stated in the Minister of Finance's letter to the Committee of 20 April 2004, such an exemption would give a proceeds of between 400 and 500 million. kr annually. Such figures and decisions shall fall within the budgetary procedure. When it is shown in the document that there is an injustice between companies that can deduct VAT from their equation and individuals who cannot do so, it is precisely how the VAT system works. There is nothing special about VAT on legal services. The value added tax is intended to be a general consumption tax, aimed at providing the country with income. The VAT is an important charge, which provides the state with about 130 billion kroner a year. Also, in most other European countries it is natural to compare with, VAT is levied on legal services. The majority of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progressive Party point out that the free legal aid system is in place in order to prevent persons from suffering legal losses due to lack of financial capacity. Several changes have been made, including: the excesses of free legal aid have been removed and the income limit for accepting free legal aid has been raised. Furthermore, a minority in the Committee consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre stated that it would consider a further increase in the rate of free legal aid on another occasion. It must be right to consider this another time, because the free legal aid system is a completely different matter from what we are dealing with today. We deal with a proposal to remove VAT on all legal services on a general basis, completely independent of the economy of the person paying for the service. The majority of the Committee would therefore recommend, on the basis of what I have said, the vote, with the following proposal for a decision: ‘Document No. 8:53 [[2003-2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e360	A few comments were made in addition to what the rapporteur said. I just want to stress that we have a system of free legal aid, which is more targeted, and which we believe is a better way of solving the issues contained in the proposal. Now the Progress Party has just had a national meeting, and if I have understood the signals from there correctly, the next goal is to try to become a party that can be considered more suitable for cooperation also in the government position. Then I think it would have been desirable that this string stream of Document No. Eight proposals stopped – this is not the only one that has been in this spring session, and it is not the last one to come either – in terms of proposals that have significant budgetary implications. I fully agree with the rapporteur, this type of proposal must be dealt with in the budget, so that it can be seen in a context and within the priorities we have to do there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e369	The background for this document no. The 8 proposal is the growing disparity that has arisen between the parties in a number of legal disputes following the imposition of VAT on legal services on 1 July 2001. The levy imposes a significant additional burden on individuals and others who are unable to deduct VAT through deductions, etc., while traders with a right of deduction and public authorities who receive compensation are not subject to any additional burden. This is in addition to the fact that traders pay their costs with non-taxed funds, while individuals have to pay with taxed funds. Because, as a rule, the trader or the public is the most economically powerful party to a conflict of laws, this becomes totally unfair to individuals who, most often involuntaryly, come into a situation where they need legal assistance. Where, in addition to economic strength and fiscal conditions, the burden of VAT often only affects one party in a conflict of law, there is a real danger that private individuals will not be able to seek legal assistance. It is a significant legal security problem if, for economic reasons, ordinary citizens do not have the right to do so. It's not enough to be right, you also have to be right. Societal development has given us a more complex society, with an ever-increasing increase in laws and regulations that affect each individual citizen. Outlays on legal aid are usually not voluntary, but are often absolutely necessary and decisive, for example: in relation to administrative decisions. The newspapers also often give us examples of individuals who have to wage a long-term legal battle against powerful insurance companies with large financial resources to get their rights. It is totally unreasonable that this process should be significantly more reasonable for insurance companies than for the ordinary citizen. It is obvious that the fee leads to large differences between groups and is negative for those who initially have the worst financial ability to seek legal aid. In fact, free legal aid can be provided to those who have income below NOK 230000, but the costs of a legal process are so large, often hundreds of thousands of dollars, that even with a relatively high income, the cost will be proactive. The fee also gives other unfortunate results. For example, where a claimant becomes aware of the costs, but where the defendant cannot pay, the defendant must also pay 24 pst in addition to paying his own fees. a charge to the State in order to defend itself against an accusation which the court completely rejects. Equally strange and equally unreasonable is it when VAT is levied on lawyers providing free legal assistance to unfettered or socially beneficial organisations, so-called pro bono work. Therefore, it appears regrettable that the Committee does not choose to discuss these principle issues of non-discrimination and legal certainty, but is careful to justify the rejection of the proposal with demarcation problems and loss of State proceeds. With regard to any demarcation problems, I would like to refer to the letter of 26 April from the Financial Committee’s Legal Affairs Association, where it writes that, in their view, the proposal will be fully practicable, with some exceptions and adjustments, if appropriate. Then the proceeds remain, which must be weighed against what the Association of Advocates also writes in its letter: ‘In any case, the crucial issue here should be to improve the legal capacity and legal certainty of individuals.’ The Progress Party fully agrees with this. Finally, I would like to include the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e397	The representative Per Erik Monsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e400	I broadly agree with the rapporteur. But at one point there is a need for some comments, and it relates to the relationship with free legal aid, where the rapporteur says this is a completely different matter. Of course it isn't. This is closely linked to the possibility for the citizen to bring a case and not to be prevented for financial reasons. A majority of the Stortinget, against the Government, was able at the beginning of this ageing period to raise the income limit to NOK 230000 and to remove the excess. This means that there are now several people who have the opportunity to raise a case, without having to deal with the financial risks involved. And that's right. This is a targeted way of using society's money, rather than, as the proposal of the Progress Party implies, to spend half a billion dollars that is not at all targeted at all, as Svein Roald Hansen was inside his post. The proposal of the Progress Party amazes me, for the Progress Party was at the beginning of this period together with SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre to get the roof up to NOK 230 000 and get rid of the excess, which was an important decision in relation to legal certainty and the ability of people to raise cases. So in today's setting, you choose to make a proposal that has half a billion dollars in the proceeds, but you choose not to support the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV where we say very carefully that we will consider further increasing the rates on a later occasion. The reason why it's formulated like this is simply that we have to see if the limit of NOK 230 000 is good enough, or if it might need to be further up, if it turns out that some people who should have been under the free legal aid system, today it's not, because of this ceiling. It is such a careful formulation that it amazes me very much that the Progress Party does not agree to give a signal about this, but instead it provides half a billion kroner, completely untargeted, in the relief of the charging system. It says a lot about the unprofessional nature of the Progress Party on these issues, and it says a lot about the uncivility of the Progress Party, when it comes to a proposal in the Stortinget that has not really been thought through sufficiently carefully. It should have been today's majority who gave this signal. Unfortunately, it is not, and I am sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e409	From the point of view of legal certainty, it is important that individuals are given the opportunity to defend their legal rights. Then it is unfortunate that the economic conditions give one party the opportunity to avail themselves of the judiciary, and the other does not. It was claimed from other parties that the real cost problem was not the high public fees, but the price of legal assistance. It is strange that this debate does not consider this to be a significant problem. It's good to have a right, but the bigger the problem when you can't fight for this right, because of the private economy. I have heard that the question of free legal aid has been raised in order to remedy this. Free legal assistance is a system for individuals, but within very limited areas. The County also has a very restrictive practice with regard to the possibility of going beyond these specified areas. If Djupedal remembers the debate about free legal aid a while ago, he can also find there the reason why we not only go for an uplifting of the roof, but also sees the issue of the thematics where one lies within the roof and gets free legal aid in all sorts of ways, while one who is just above the roof has to pay everything for himself. This is actually a problem for very many people, not least in relation to child distribution issues and issues related to family problems. It is also true that consumers in the law are considered to have special protection, because the Storting considers that they have a special need for protection. But it's the same people the majority now feel that there is no need to bring cases before the judiciary, because they want a situation where one party, i.e. the business community, gets a tax discount, while the one with a right he wants to be prepared, has to pay full taxes and not in any way have the same position as the party that initially has the strongest position. Misguided discrimination between parties to a dispute may appear to be highly economical, but not very positive for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e420	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2641]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e437	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2641]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e454	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e471	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e479	We are then ready to vote on the matter on today's map. There is no voting theme in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e488	During the debate, Mr Monsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the VAT law to exempt legal aid services from VAT.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e513	The vote will take place on behalf of the Committee of the Regions, on the proposal from Mr Gærmund Hagesetter, representing the Group of the Party of European Socialists and Democrats for Europe, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 27 April 2004: ‘The Government requests the Government to ensure that the Equation and Fee Authorities pay a fee equivalent to self-cost when collecting information that is not electronically archived.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e531	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 27 April 2004: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of the introduction of an exemption from the employer’s tax for all those who have a stay of more than 2 years abroad.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e549	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 27 April 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a review of the competitiveness of the tax system for the Nordics taking up work abroad.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-06.ana.ud1931e571	There is no record.
