ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e113	From the delegation of the European Parliament to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, there is an application for leave, signed by the Head of the delegation, Mr Morten Höglund. The application concerns participation in meetings in Geneva on 16 and 17 December of the representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Julie Christiansen, Hans Kristian Hogsnes, Morten Højlund, Ivar Østberg and Odelstingets President, Ågot Valle. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli, Mette Korsrud and Harald Espelund For Hordaland County: Ragna FlotveFor Troms County: Ruth Stenersen For Vestfold County: Marie Kürstein3. Mette Korsrud and Ruth Stenersen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for representatives Julie Christiansen and Ivar Østberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e161	The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e164	On behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Ingrid Fiskaa, May Hansen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the identification of the real need for practical assistance in the home of parents in connection with birth in the municipalities of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e169	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time. 15 to the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. In addition, the President will point out – while there are still quite a lot of people in the Chamber – that if the debate is to take place today as the Municipal Committee wishes, with the required speaking times, the President will see little chance of being finished before noon. 19th@item: inlistbox This can only be governed by the representatives of the Storting itself, and the President can do nothing but lead the debates according to the desired speaking times. The President asks the representatives to take into account the fact that some of the groups are due to have Christmas in the evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e190	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 20 minutes each, Center Party 10 minutes, and Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies following the insertion of the main numbers from each party group and five lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e201	First one creation: it applies to page 59 of the configuration. There's a big place to put the Merge. It is The Conspiracy to give the Conspiracy Control Committee the right level of work. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Committee for another autumn of good and constructive cooperation. A budget process is a special test. There is every reason for the individual committee fraction to be satisfied with progress and cleanness in the process of the year. Unfortunately, I cannot mention the content of the budget work in the same way. Very many individuals, children, the elderly, school pupils, cultural students and those in need of help have been the subject of systematic underfunding by the municipalities of the Government throughout this period. That's also happening this year. The Committee has had a strong meeting with spokesmen who have described one weekday it is impossible to let go of it. We've met professionals before school and care. They have a different proximity to the Departments of the Extermination that are about to take place in many communities. We have listened to the spokesman in Gaul, who has to put down the cultural sphere, and to the right-leader in Etne, who speaks his own right against, and to many other peoples. They know about the body a government that changes a good and free school and a more dignified care into tax havens for high incomes. Here is an alternative to the government of the day. This is made clear in the vote by the municipal committee. The Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV all represent a stronger public commitment to getting more people to work, to a more offensive district and housing policy and to a stronger and more solidarity local community economy. These three parties today present two proposals of great importance to a large number of individuals in this country, a more binding consultation mechanism between the CS and the municipal sector and a multi-annual escalation plan to correct the financial imbalances in the municipalities. These are proposals that the Christian People's Party in the media is in favour of, but which they prevent from pluralizing here in the Chamber today. We also agree to reject the government's unsolidarized proposal for the so-called repatriation of company taxes. Introduction of Norwegian training for refugees in reception and proposals for clear target figures to ensure more disabled people and immigrants to public settings tell of a common commitment to a strengthened integration policy. The government will be required, on behalf of the Centre Party, the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the SV, to set up a more prudent and fair system for the costs incurred by several coastal municipalities for the protection of health professionals. The Government must review all aspects of the Deep Sea Driller rigging in the revised budget for 2005. The different parties are going to do their best for their respective setups. The Centre Party has given priority to three areas in the 2005 budget: a targeted decentralised industrial policy local well-being, schooling and care a lever for culture and voluntary work; The centre party will have good and innovative communities throughout the country. There is a need for a holistic and offensive effort in the districts to stop the centralization of knowledge, power, capital and construction. People must experience real freedom of choice when it comes to the place of residence and the place of work. Norway is in a special situation with many communities with low population and large distances. Many of the most important resources are in these areas. It is necessary to pursue a policy that helps us to make use of the rich resources we have both on land and in the sea. Increased resources in areas such as transport, business development, municipal welfare, broadband and measures targeting young people and women are vital. New technologies can provide completely different opportunities than before for more varied jobs in many districts. The importance of the population in the largest cities is an argument to dampen the pressure they now know with a strong centralization. We are deeply dissenting at the level of the Government's proposal for promises and in the Government's arrogant attitude towards District Norway. Still new examples of undermining come. At Sand in Ryfylke, the traffic station is closed and good local services are cut off, while full pay is added for two years. In Strand, a bookstore and its clients today struggle with the government’s unexpected move toward the district bookstores yesterday. The central party's alternative budget is SEK 4.4 billion for food development, of these 325 million. kr more for regional development. The efficiency selection, the District Commission and the Action Space Selection – all these options should give fresh impetus to raising district and regional policy. Municipal nutrition funds work, we want 100 million. kr more to such funds next year. We want to take action against the crisis in Finnmark and for municipalities that are struggling with migration challenges. Extra funds are needed for Sogn and Fjordane and Vanylven. Violent promises do not last! It's in the municipalities people cage. There is a need for good prevention in order to ensure a safe breeding environment. Kindergarten, school, cultural school and a wide range of volunteer work – everything depends on municipalities having the means to carry out their crucial part of the work for safe and inclusive neighbourhoods. It is now necessary in the municipalities to work for a care where people are met with dignity and respect. The central party also wants municipalities to have an important role to play in securing a diverse business environment. We want the county councils to have resources for a decentralised secondary school, for culture and transport, including a secure TT system. We want a real strengthening of the task as a regional development actor. The central party's alternative budget includes a municipal package of approximately DKK 4.5 billion, of which DKK 3.5 billion is available in free income. In addition, we'll compensate for $3.4 billion in missing tax revenue this year. Our starting point is that all municipalities, whether we talk about city, growth or relocation municipalities, need more money for their tasks. We reject the giant transfer of the government through the corporate tax now led from commuter and district municipalities to the largest city municipalities. We are covered by Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger every penny, but it is quite wrong to transfer the money from municipalities that themselves need the money. VAT neutrality, new cost key for social services in 2004, changes in power taxes and the phasing-out of the Rattsø selection seem to be part of the same strategy, a weakening of smaller but mainly well-functioning municipalities, with satisfied users and good supply. The centre party wants an active housing policy to take place. We firmly believe that the House Bank is one of our best housing policy tools. We disagree with the Government that has turned in the role of the House Bank. We want to increase the housing supplement and the contribution to the building quality with a total of 225 million. kr. We're particularly concerned about the extra cost of building quality, which can help with e.g. for more older people to be able to build longer in their own housing. We are totally unintelligible that the Advance Party has been given the Right Party and the Christian People's Party to remove that supplement altogether. We want one-person households with low incomes to be included in the housing support scheme, and we want the department to provide good examples from municipalities of charges after consumption. Norway is facing major challenges in the labour market. The centre party won't accept any workarounds. Our budget is based on the SSB's estimate of 10 100 annual works. We'll allow 190 million. SEK for labour market measures, which comprise 1,940 places, of these 640 on-screen measures. We will keep today's permit law and add more funds to the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate. The center party believes the key to good integration is language skills, work and inclusive local environment. We want to reintroduce Norwegian education in reception and offer introduction programs even at family reunions to more than the Government wants. We want to stimulate the important efforts of different organisations in the integration process. Here, meeting places are created that give mutual understanding, respect and cooperation. We're increasing in our alternative budget the proceeds in that area by 10 million. kr. Our alternative budget contains 10 million. kr to Sametinget’s important functions. Media lookups lately have raised doubts about Sametinget's handling of its own economy. The centre party is in the broad plurality asking the Sametinget, the Riksrevision and the Ministry in cooperation to improve their control systems and provide feedback to the Stortinget on this. The centre party maintains the five strategies of the dithering message. Unfortunately, they are no less topical today than in 1999. Differences are increasing in this country. If we are to eliminate poverty, we need to stick to a softer workline, a more social housing policy, better public services, a more finmasked social security network and a more fair tax system. A strengthened community economy is the key to better public services. It will not at least give the municipal authority the right to lead where children and young people need special attention. When we don't get multiples for our proposals today, it's going to stimulate us to move on for the society we want. Finally, I would like to address the proposals to which the Central Party is associated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e261	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e266	There have been various signals recently from parts of the Central Party on the willingness to cooperate in a new solidarity regime together with the Workers' Party and SV. But only on this part of the state budget could we have achieved a lot together if we had a majority on the Stortinget. We would have 3 000 more places of action, so that more unemployed people could get back to work, we would have a youth guarantee in place that guaranteed long-term unemployed people under 25 years of age work, action space or education, we would increase school and care spending in the municipalities by several billion dollars next year, and we would have a majority for an obligatory plan to create the financial imbalances in the municipal sector. The leader of the centre party, Åslaug Haga, said earlier in the fall that the participation of the centre party would give such cooperation a profile in which the centre values associated with the decentralisation of power, private initiative and rural and coastal interests are safeguarded. Does the representative of Meltveit share these positive opinions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e273	As I pointed out in my article, this setting is probably an example of what cooperation between the Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party can lead to. I'm not in doubt that if we got a pass on the priorities that we're dealing with, it would be in the best interests of a lot of individuals, and it would be in the best interests of a lot of cities and towns in this country. So it's going to be a big shot. It is important for the Central Party that we go to elections as an independent party, and if the election results show a strong centre party, it is important for us that we get our stamp on the possible negotiations that will follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e280	The government has led an economic policy that works. Business now goes better and signals optimism, unemployment goes down, it's low interest rates and better dollar rates. This benefits individuals, municipalities and businesses. But then I read in the Central Party's main priorities in this budget: ‘In a situation where unemployment is high and the economy is tired, it is more important than ever to focus on development across the country.’ Is it such that the Center Party does not see that the arrows point in a better direction? Is it that the Center Party does not recognise, as the United Nations says, that Norway is the world's best country to live in? Does the Central Party not see that we live in a prosperity society where we maintain values and have sustainable development?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e290	I appreciate reading right from the Center Party's comments. I'd rather be done more often. So to the question of not the Center Party sees how development is going. So we're definitely going to do that. We are pleased that there is a point of light when it comes to working life and employment, but we are far from happy with today's state. There have been several distributions in the very last time that we think so absolutely show how important it is with additional offensive, whether we are talking about the District Commission or the Action Space Selection. It is a fact that there is far more than a long time falling out of this country, and when we discuss the local government sector's budget, I have to say that the most important measure we can come with is to strengthen the municipalities, to ensure a better school and a more dignified care. I do not understand that the Right can say that things are going well in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e297	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa from the Center Party underlines very clearly that the Centre Party is now falling deeper into a socialist fold together with SV and the Workers' Party. And then it is asked whether the nuclear electors, landowners and farmers, particularly appreciate this marked left turn of the former far more bourgeois Center Party. But that's going to give us answers to the next big shot. The representative mentioned in his statement that people should be met with dignity and respect in the municipality, and then I would like to know if it is such that the Central Party sees freedom of choice as an important democratic good in being met with dignity and respect. Does the Center Party believe that freedom of choice is an important right for citizens to be met by what she calls dignity and respect, or does the Center Party believe that only municipal monopoly suppliers, namely the municipality itself, should be awarded as users of municipal services? I would like an answer to what the Center Party is adding to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e304	Sometimes it is produced as if landowners and farmers do not have social solidarity. I will refute that on the strongest, cf. the evidence of proficiency that is present in very many districts in this country. So when it comes to freedom of choice: what's important for the Center Party is to make sure that it's an offer on the day the individual needs it, that it's possible for a worthy care. We actually think that's the best thing for those who need care, for those who need care, and for those who depend on stability around this and not the chance they've been playing with, for example. in Oslo, where people put themselves as private providers and then relax. There are contracts that are broken in the middle of the period, precisely because they cannot meet the commitments they have entered into.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e311	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e315	The last few weeks have been marked by reports on the situation in Coastal Finland. The county lost 1 000 jobs in the fishing industry in one year. Some municipalities have had unemployment rates of more than 20 pst. continuous for a few years. Now we see the long-term effects, with increased social challenges and increased mental health problems. The Storting and the Government are aware of the problems. The county council sent a separate report to the Prime Minister that he feared ‘that the bottom falls out of many communities and that the pattern of settlement along the Finnmark coast may be changing radically’. He concluded that ‘central government intervention is necessary’. But nothing happened. Proposals from the Workers' Party on measures for the fishing industry were defeated and proposals from the Workers' Party on a plan of action were voted down. Now it seems that the Workers' Party's new initiative can give a majority for something. I must appeal as strongly as I can to the Government to take seriously the need for follow-up. But the situation in Coastal Finland gives us at the same time two important reminders: Work for everyone is job no. 1st@item: inlistbox Unemployment affects individuals and families who want to use their labour and who feel uncertain about their economy and about their future. That is why we need to strengthen efforts to secure vulnerable jobs and strengthen efforts to create new jobs around the country. The financial arrangements of the Workers' Party have this as their primary objective. We propose to strengthen research and development, to strengthen innovation, to develop industries where we have the advantage of giving us new jobs. But at the same time, we have to make it easier for those who unfortunately have become unemployed, to come back to work. We need to strengthen labour market measures. We have to prevent the perms being cancelled rather, as they would easily have been with the Government's proposal to tighten the employer's pay obligation during the leave. We want to improve unemployment benefits The second reminder is the need for a much more offensive district policy, including in order to create more jobs and to strengthen the country's overall value creation. Norway is a rich country, a country with an exciting diversity. We have different cultures in different parts of the country. This diversity is Norway. Rather than wanting to be as close as possible to other countries, we should be aware that we have a country that is far north and along the coast. But Norway is also economically rich. Many of the advantages and resources that have contributed to this wealth are found in District Norway — the fish, the forest, the hydropower, the oil and the natural experiences. We need to seize these opportunities to a far greater extent and develop them into exciting new jobs. But then we have to have a clear strategy for where we want to go. We need to strengthen skills, strengthen access to capital, improve communication, among other things. through the development of modern broadband across the country. Then we must have a targeted district policy. One of the government's plates is the opposite. It's weakened district policy. I am still hearing the Minister of State say that the county council in Finnmark must resolve the crisis, because it has been delegated authority and received 112 million. kr. But she forgets to say that this is a cut of a quarter since the government took over. The district commission has recently submitted its opinion. It's exciting reading. Here, Members are proposed by all parties. The position of the District Commission cannot be read as anything but a strong criticism of the Government's district policy. All members other than the Advance Party state that it is: ‘needs to strengthen economic and narrow policies to promote the development of profitable and forward-looking activities in the districts’. But this is where the government has systematically cut. Not because we are hindered by international rules. The so-called Action Space Committee said that ‘there are more national priorities than the EEA bordering rules’. It is not because it is unwise to use the money. The power range unanimously stated that ‘the good effects indicate that greater resources should be used in this field’. And the District Commission said, even unanimously, ‘The framework for investment grants should be increased so that the instrument can be used to a greater extent in line with what is common in other European countries.’ The government's arrangement leads to less money next year than this year. This is one of the areas in which we see clear distinctions between the Government and the Governments in the Advance Party on one side and the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party on the other. We see it in district policy, we see it in labour market policy, we see it in the view of employment, we see it in housing policy. We see it in the difference in the willingness to direct development, to take responsibility, in the difference between entrusting development to the market, as we have seen for too long, among other things. in Coastal Finland. We see it in the choice of private well-being for the richest or common well-being of the many, we see it in the choice of tax haven or school. The government's draft budget and the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party make this clearer than ever. Hardly ever has been given so much tax relief to them with the highest income. The CEO of Norsk Hydro will receive NOK 207 000 – NOK 207 000 – in tax bills with the arrangements of the Government. With the so-called fair arrangements of the Advance Party, he gets NOK 197,000 – NOK 197,000. But around those who receive such tax relief, school services have to be cut, children’s leisure services cut down, the elderly services cut down, cultural services cut down. Right-Rapporteur Amund Enge said it this way: “We’re tired of hearing that we’re wasting money in municipality Norway. In terms of efficiency, we are the best in the class.» He also said, «The Community economy has been sluggish in recent years. In the 2005 budget, everything is getting worse.» Yes, it does. The government’s municipal structure did not even have enough growth to cover the additional costs to municipalities as a result of the changes in the population. The budgetary agreement with the Progress Party slightly changes that. It only gives the municipalities 800 million. kr more next year than the government's plan. This means that the major problems in the municipal sector will persist. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for NOK 2.7 billion more to the municipalities than the Progress Party and the government parties add up. It would make it possible to continue more services to the elderly and to continue more cultural schools that are now being laid down. It would make it possible to maintain more of the quality of school provision. It's a political choice. The Progress Party and the Government have different choices. For them, it was more important that the group manager of Hydro got about $200,000 in tax dollars. The movement of workers has been a driving force for involving the whole population in welfare development. The next major challenge lies in better integration of immigrants coming to Norway. The power investigation concludes that large parts of the immigrant population do not participate in the political system, have low-paid workers or are out of the labour market. We're in danger of getting an ethnic subclass. Therefore, we must break the social heritage, so that no more generations of immigrants experience becoming social losers rather than active participants in society. Language is the key to participation, to work and to being a part of society. The working party was a driving force behind the mandatory introduction programme for immigrants and a driving force for compulsory Norwegian training. Immigrants shall not be able to opt out of learning Norwegian. But much of the foundation is laid in childhood. All children growing up in Norway should be able to speak Norwegian before they start school. Association with Norwegian-speaking children and early language training is very important to achieve this. But children with a migrant background are strongly under-represented in kindergartens. Cheaper kindergartens and free core time in kindergartens in areas with many minority languages can be the means to provide such important language training. Unfortunately, the cash support is the opposite. It is an obstacle to early language development. Similarly, a full-day school that includes teaching aids and access to libraries, computer equipment and other technical aids will help to reduce the differences between children from resource-intensive homes and children from low-resource homes. The government's commitment to private schools, on the other hand, hinders such integration. Similarly, training in Norwegian is important to include newly arrived adult immigrants. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes to reintroduce Norwegian training for asylum seekers in reception. Successful integration is important for the country, for the future of everyone living here. That is why we need to address the challenges more specifically. This is one of the greatest political challenges facing us as a nation. I take this up with me the suggestions in the vote to which the Workers' Party is associated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e387	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has taken up the proposals he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e392	I must first be allowed to say that when I heard the post of Schjøtt-Pedersen, it seemed far again that Christmas peace could slow down, it looked rather dark out, all in hope. As a member of the District Commission, I must also be allowed to say that the criticism that the District Commission gave was of former district policy, it was the coin of former governments, including the government in which Schjøtt-Pedersen himself was a participant – just to have said it. In addition, with regard to claims about the suspension by the District Commission, if Schjött-Pedersen goes further into the setting, it is clear that the District Commission says that it is the broad district policy that is important, not the narrow district policy. You can't get anywhere with a district policy of between $1 and $3 billion, to put it straight out. I have a question for Schjøtt-Pedersen, despite the fact that everything is so dark: how is the Workers' Party going to finance its lift cavalry, which is now going to pass 25 billion kroner during the fall, when the Workers' Party is not going to increase taxes at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e403	In contrast to the Progress Party, the Workers' Party is in line with the same economic framework as the Government has at its disposal. We do not collect money from somewhere that the government does not have. We're dealing with the same framework, but we're prioritizing in a different way. In fact, we do not think there is a need for the group manager of Hydro to receive NOK 207 000 in tax relief. However, we feel that there is a need for Norwegian schoolchildren to have a better quality offer, we feel that our elderly people need to feel secure in the care services, that they have a proper service offer, and that their daily services are not cut off. We think it is important that cultural services are given to children through cultural schools and music schools. We think it is important that leisure services for children are not reduced in order to avoid major social problems in the youth group. This is a choice! I assume that the Progress Party also acknowledges its choice, where they choose tax havens and not welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e412	In the spring, we, the Workers' Party and the Centre were united in the residential announcement of an escalation of at least 1,000 low-income homes and 1000-1 200 student homes, the construction of 3,000-4 000 cheap rental homes and the escalation of housing support for families with children by raising the income staggered by NOK 30,000. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget this year, they have provided an increase in mortgage loans of NOK 2 billion and an increase in student housing of SEK 26 million. kr. But this is a smaller increase in the Labour Party's budget than the cuts that Erna Solberg is implementing. So instead of participating in an escalation plan, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and the Arbeiderpartiet are involved in implementing the government's decommissioning plan on the housing field. Then my question is: is it Jens Stoltenberg or Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen who is satisfied with the government's policy? Who is it that thinks it is necessary not to follow the promises from in ours?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e419	The Labour Party has put forward proposals in the Stortinget on a systematic strengthening of housing policy: strengthening of the Husbank, a substantial strengthening of residential housing for young people and low-income housing, a strengthening of housing support, not least for families with children. I am very pleased that there has been an agreement between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre on the main lines of this policy, to a very large extent in accordance with the proposals made by the Workers' Party in its private proposal which was dealt with in the Stortinget last year. Then, unfortunately, we have to note that the majority of the Storting did not agree with the arrangement that we agreed to during our proceedings. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the Workers' Party in its budget line has been given one priority: to strengthen the House Bank by DKK 2.5 billion and to strengthen the allocation of student housing, as a start on the course we have to implement in order to strengthen housing policy in Norway. The Labour Party has never said that this should be carried out in one year. On the contrary, for our part, we have underlined that we are seeing a stepping up over several years, and of course we are going to hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e428	The district commission says that it is important that one has an honest approach to rural policy. The government's goal is to achieve growth in all parts of the country over the next 20 years. It's ambitious. We will strengthen the business environment, focus on innovation and innovation as well as narrow and broad district policies to achieve this. But this is what the Labour Party calls passive. Can it be honest? How has the Labour Party intended to achieve population growth in all parts of the country, when the SSB says that we need 10,000-15,000 immigrants only to maintain the demographic balance? The truth is that even if anyone born in District Norway is bowing there, there should be something more to increase the population. That's the way it is in all of Europe. Is the Workers' Party realistic, or should they only try a little? Is the Labour Party and Schjøtt-Pedersen honest?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e435	One of the things that has surprised me about this government is that the Christian People's Party has agreed to weaken the goal of district policy. There has been growth in all parts of the country in the last 20 years. But having growth in all parts of the country over a 20-year period can make enormous differences. In the part of the country I come from, the situation is that there has been such a strong growth in Tromsø City that it covers a large net decline both in the Nordic region, in Finnmark and in the rest of Troms. But it is not that, overall, the region has had a satisfactory development of a rural policy framework. Therefore, we must maintain the ambition to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. I've noticed the recommendations of the District Commission. I have noticed that the District Commission is recommending a strengthening of the broad policy, but also a very clear strengthening of the narrower district policy. The working party is set to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e444	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e447	The co-operation management is now well under way with a comprehensive system change work in relation to the local government sector. The aim is to ensure that municipalities and county municipalities have the greatest possible freedom to adapt the provision of services to the needs of their inhabitants. I am pleased that the Government is pursuing a policy that strengthens local democracy and increases municipal freedom of action. This work includes the dismantling of laws and regulations, the simplification, reduction and coordination of the country’s reporting and supervision requirements, the maximisation of framework funding and the last, but not least, increased, framework transfers. Increasing the room for action and good framework conditions for local elected representatives will stimulate innovation, change and development. I believe that these changes are crucial for a vital, robust and sustainable local democracy. I am concerned that citizens will experience that they have proximity to, and opportunity to, influence decisions taken in the community. This means that citizens should experience the provision of equivalent services of good quality and with good availability, adapted to individual and local needs, irrespective of where they live. This means that the organisation of service production should ensure the best possible services at the lowest possible cost, irrespective of local boundaries and boundaries between different levels of administration. Here it is important to stress that the local government sector has the primary responsibility for the main welfare services, services financed through tax revenues, framework grants, earmarked grants and user payments. I believe that framework financing through tax revenue and framework grants should be the main principle for financing the local government sector. If we support this with less detailed state regulatory governance, the local economy will also become more predictable. However, as the national economy is exposed to economic fluctuations, municipalities must also live with the development of the world around them. For me, it is an important point that municipalities themselves are given incentives to take action to strengthen business development, secure jobs and live in line with the conditions under which local businesses operate economically. In my opinion, we now get much better at this by returning a share of the corporate tax to the municipalities. Many municipalities in this country still experience the economic situation as difficult. This situation has grown forward over a long time, and I will repeat that this situation is caused by a wide range of conditions. I am pleased to mention here a number of detailed and underfunded state reforms, increased pension costs and expensive wage settlements. In this context, I would also like to stress that very many municipalities and county councils have taken responsibility for meeting increased expenditure needs with the necessary conversion and efficiency measures to release resources for services to their citizens. It is essential to continue to have a significant impact on the conversion and modernisation of public administration and service production. The government has in a tight budget prioritised increased transfers to the municipalities, where it was added to a real growth in total revenue of NOK 2 3/4 billion, or a well-defined 1.25 pst. I am also very pleased with the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party, where the municipal sector is added another DKK 3 billion, divided into 800 million. kr extra in increased free revenues for 2005 and DKK 2,2 billion as compensation for less tax growth than budgeted in 2004. Worth mentioning is also the point of the budget agreement where the loan framework for the maintenance of school buildings is extended by DKK 1 billion. Over the three years the scheme has existed, there has been an investment framework of 8 billion kroner, which is more than 50 pst. of the total amount of EUR 15 billion provided for over eight years. With a further DKK 1 billion in 2005, it will allow municipalities and county councils to continue the work on upgrading school buildings. Personally, I am also very pleased that a new loan arrangement of SEK 0.5 billion for the maintenance of church buildings has been established in the budget agreement, which will strengthen a long-term effort to repair the churches and their decoration. I would also like to refer to the agreement concluded between the Government Parties and the Advance Party of the Municipal Committee, in which we also develop the security network relating to the municipalities covered by the host municipality grant, and we reiterate the assurance that the VAT compensation scheme should not have unintended effects. In addition, I also find it very positive that municipalities and county councils benefit from interest rebates over the last two years of a total of 5.25 percentage points. With a net debt of between SEK 70 and 80 billion, the long-term effect of lower interest rates will be DKK 3-4 billion on an annual basis, although long-term interest rate fixing will make the short-term gain slightly less. The SSB figure shows a net decline in interest expenditure for the local government sector of 900 million. kr from 2002 to 2003. This has increased further in 2004. This illustrates very well the importance of pursuing a tight economic policy that can still help to keep interest rates at a low level. This, together with other measures, will continue to have a positive impact on the framework conditions of municipalities, so that the many tasks of the municipal sector are responsible for can have a sound scale and a safe quality. This is also confirmed in the report of the Technical Calculation Committee for the Municipal and Municipal Economy of December 2004, where there are good indications that the net operating performance of municipalities will be strengthened in 2004. It must then be an objective to ensure the best possible services at the lowest possible cost, irrespective of local and administrative boundaries. I have great faith in a policy that is constantly increasing the municipal space for action in order to make priorities based on local wishes and needs. Therefore, the individual needs to focus on the individual. The public sector is for citizens and needs to be adapted to their needs. That's why I want to further increase the local space for action. It is local authorities themselves, in dialogue with users, their own inhabitants, who know best how the service provision can and should be designed. At the end of the day, I also believe that we will take inwards that no government will be able to grant enough money to the municipalities within a responsible economy – someone will always want more money. As I have already mentioned, low interest rates and low price increases are essential for municipalities. There will be limits to growth in public expenditure. The challenge for us politicians, whether we sit on the Stortinget, in county councils or in local government, is that in any case, we always have to focus on prioritizing better and working smarter, so that we get more money back. An important point in this context is that the Income System Committee, which is scheduled to put its place in place during 2005, will look at mechanisms that may increase predictability of the revenues of municipalities, in order to facilitate the planning of migration measures where necessary. On behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, I will be presented with the proposal contained in the vote of the Municipal Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e481	The representative Hans Kristian Hogsnes has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e487	The local economy has been sluggish in the last few years. The 2005 budget is getting even worse. Older people, sick people and young people will get it tougher. We can't accept that silently. - This is the view of a vocabulary officer. He adds: Now it has to be over that the municipalities have the right to waste them. The construction of schools, care and other important services in Norwegian municipalities must be completed. We also need resources to solve the problems we've been assigned. "We're in a situation where we're going from cutting services to cutting them out," is a statement from Spokesperson None in Etne. My question to the representative of Hogsnes must therefore be: does the Right-Rapporteur give an insightful comment, or does he misappropriate his judgements?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e496	Some rapporteurs see it as an important part of their job to say that things could be better. As previous rapporteur, I can do so in a number of ways. And it is probably in many ways also the rapporteurs' job to say from how they perceive it based on their situation. I will not judge whether or not the Etne rapporteur is in line with that reality. He can best judge that from the situation in Etne. But as I pointed out in my post, the imbalance in the local government sector has arisen over a long time, and changes in the income system are different. That means that some lose and some win, and that is why we also experience in this crossroads that rapporteurs who have previously expressed great concern, this time are very pleased with the outcome, while others, as we have heard, are not so pleased with the results for their municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e503	I was actually going to quote a rapporteur who, in a small local way, stood up and cheered on this year's budgetary settlement. However, the rapporteur was from the Labour Party, so I understand that this is wrong in relation to the fact that the representative to whom I have a reply is from the Right. So I'm trying with another question. The representative was in the Bureau's report. A press release on 7 December points out that 2004 will be a fantastic year for the municipal sector – DKK 8 1/4 billion in real growth income. At the same time, the sample writes a little later that productivity development, i.e. resource use per person. unit produced, not actually modified. My question to the representative is: does the representative believe that there is still a potential for efficiency and rationalisation in the municipal sector, or are we just going to settle down with today's situation and continue to allocate more money to the local government sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e512	The report from the Technical Calculation Committee is this time very interesting reading and clearly tells, as the questioner suggests, that there is still a significant potential to streamline to get more money back. For me, it works, for example. to stimulate even more to competition — there is a lot to pick up in many municipalities — and in a way to use the entire municipality to solve the local community’s problems. And ‘the whole municipality’ also includes private actors who have competence, resources and the ability to use personnel more efficiently, in combination with the public offer. It provides more reasonable solutions and better quality, and, as the Calculations Committee suggests, we have not fully taken that potential into account in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e517	The right is well-informed to change society as they will, with greater differences, shrink well-being and allow the market to rule more. But it is very revealing to the Right's social and human views when they are not willing to use the market to provide good solutions that do not discriminate. The government buys services and goods for 200 billion dollars a year, and very much of what we buy is inaccessible to people who have different types of disabilities. So we're buying discrimination. Now SV, and we have received support from the Centre Party, has made a proposal that we should make demands on all public procurement, all contracts: everything we buy must have anti-discrimination clauses and demands that it be organised to achieve social equality. Can the Right explain why they are opposed to using the market to actually provide society with good solutions that would equate disabled people with us?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e526	We in the Right are not negative about using the market to achieve better solutions for everyone. On the contrary, on the part of the Government, we are now also taking action to review the procurement instructions that apply. Here are the unsolved tasks around the municipalities, and as a former local politician, I myself have had the experience that you can get into a bit of trouble over assessments that have been made. There is a lack of competence in many municipalities to be good orderers. So, as I say, this is kind of like blowing open doors, in my opinion. Here you're doing a job, and we're going to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e531	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e534	Let me, like the committee leader, first thank the Committee for a clean budget harvest, and, in addition, allow me to thank the government parties for contributing to a constructive and good negotiating climate. Theprogression party has gained a number of important issues for the municipal sector, both in the financial committee and in the municipal committee, which I am not in doubt about will enable the municipalities and the counties to perform their statutory services more effectively. When I listen to the debate, it's from this that I want to focus a little on what we want with the municipalities as a welfare producer and as a welfare sector. It is clear that there are considerable differences between municipalities. It's the income system that decides. Many municipalities are doing very well. They have a good service throughout the line, so some municipalities have come out of control for various reasons. What was said earlier today by the representative Schjött-Pedersen is that this is about political priorities, not only necessarily political priorities from this House, but also political priorities in the individual counties and in the individual municipalities. Some municipalities with workers' party rapporteurs give more priority to non-statutory tasks than they should have done. Some progress party rapporteurs are likely to give greater priority to some non-statutory tasks than they should have done, which are at the expense of the statutory tasks, namely health, the elderly and school. But that's the local space they have to make priorities within the limits they had to get from this house. So it's going to be equal to over 80 pst. of the revenue generated by the local government sector. It's a very small room for action if you want to see it in that context. All parties believe that they have the right recipe. The Progress Party believes, of course, that we have the best policy for future welfare. For us, it is really about welfare policy, good and predictable industrial policy and fiscal policy. It is then the framework conditions for these areas that will promote or inhibit growth in Norway, respectively. Without growth in the Norwegian economy, we also get no wealth in the future. Norway is totally dependent on creating growth in the economy to ensure our future prosperity. The level of taxation is and will be among the most important factors in relation to economic growth. It is in this light that the Progress Party has seen the need to lower the broad level of taxation so that it becomes competitive in today's global world. Here, lower taxes to mitigate wage growth and lower marginal taxes to increase labour supply will be central in the future. It is necessary to facilitate less public interference in the economy, while providing a much better incentive for the private sector to work, invest, produce and innovate. Less regulation and a simpler society are important elements in this context. The role of the public must be shifted to focus on real investment, including infrastructure focus, which in the short term gives jobs to the construction industry and which in the long term improves the efficiency of the economy and increases growth. When it comes to creating further growth in the economy, it is essential that we also look at a change in the whole welfare system, in particular in such a way that we encourage more and more people to have the most professional career possible. Of course, the Progress Party sees that growth alone does not come as a result of macro-economic instruments, but that a number of conditions need to be coordinated in parallel. In this context, Norway must win the struggle for competence against the rest of the world. Here the Progress Party has a comprehensive plan. Investment in research and development is also a competitive advantage for Norway. Here, too, the Progress Party has a comprehensive plan. Norway has more and more natural comparative advantages. It's just these that have been the guarantor of the growth we're experiencing today. In order to continue today's growth, these natural comparative advantages also need to be exploited in order to remain central, not in the form of the establishment of a development and investment plan by the State, but in the form of facilitating conditions for the market to be as easily exploited as possible. In such a setting, the good entrepreneurial spirit of Norway, the well-educated population and our built-up point competence will be central. The existence of equity environments and private investors in Norway is important for Norway to be able to experience balanced growth. Unfortunately, there are very few private investors of significant size in Norway. The party of progress has therefore been a champion to stimulate this. In this process, we have supported state structural funds in a variety of forms, so that Norwegian investors will have potential partners to develop and invest in Norwegian business. There's absolute reason for optimism if we do things right. We have a good starting point and the resources to put Norway in an even better position through growth and development. On the other hand, those who do not want a realistic growth policy but who at the same time want to maintain the level of welfare have no alternative but to distribute more fairly. The disadvantage is that the redistribution itself inhibits growth capacity, which will result in a negative cycle. Such a circuit will ultimately include general welfare benefits such as old-age pensions, disability benefits, day-care allowances, sickness benefits, health care, etc. The reason why I have angled my post in this way today is that the municipal sector is the welfare producer. The reason is that from several parties, a picture has been drawn of that it is only misery. But the misery is not diminished by the fact that the same parties have a promise approaching NOK 30 billion, and not telling the Norwegian people where to pick up these billions from. You won't get far with the Hydro Manager's NOK 197,000 in this fight. There are several major resources to be provided, and there are several major structural changes that need to be made. It is still the case that in Norway public employment has increased by nearly 60 pst. since 1980, versus 25 pst. in the EU. That's the reality we're going to have to take in if we really mean something to safeguard and strengthen the welfare of Norway in the future. Then it's no use to bet billions here and there. If this development continues, and if we don't get a change in the public sector, 43–45 pst. by all those working in this country, be employed in the public sector in 15 to 20 years. This cannot be the intention of the political environment, except SV. I cannot understand that it should be the intention, at a time when we know that mobility and freedom of choice and the demand for services are just getting bigger and bigger. Here I could have framed a list of conditions in the public service – many people want to do so when private people come in and compete and make an offer. Then it is immediately so negative both for those who are going to have the service, and for those who are working there. But if we all go to work thoroughly, we see that public service provision is not good enough. With the policies of the Progress Party, I am convinced that the public sector, in competition with private, humanitarian organisations, with anyone, would have stepped up, and the services offered to those in need would have been strengthened in line with the competition that one has received. I am promoting the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e560	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up all the proposals that the Progress Party has made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e565	I understand that the representative Sandberg is very concerned about the economic structure of the Progress Party, which, after all, has a much larger financial framework than anyone else in this Chamber. Now I will leave it to you that the Progress Party is opposed to fully compensating for the tax failure in the municipalities in 2004. But there are large deficits that the municipalities are moving into 2005. At the same time, the Progress Party has joined an economic structure that barely covers the additional costs of changing the population. This means further cuts in the offer, among other things. to the elderly in the next few years. Then we see that the social political spokesman of the Progress Party, John Alvheim, as usual, is deeply shaken by the fact that offers to the elderly are being dropped. But that is a consequence of the budgetary arrangements that the Progress Party is now adopting and putting itself behind the Stortinget. It is the Progress Party that provides the Notodden and other municipalities with a financial framework that forces them to provide services to the elderly. Is it not time for the Progress Party to take responsibility for its own elections and actually say that it is their choice that causes these priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e574	I can almost guarantee that our 13 rapporteurs in their budgets for 2005 will not cut pensions. But what 180 irresponsible Labour Party rapporteurs around the whole country will do in 2005, I cannot take responsibility for. I see that many of these rapporteurs from the Labour Party already before the tax failure was compensated, and before the framework for the municipal sector for 2005 had been laid, signalled a cut, even within the budget that the Labour Party actually agreed with the Government, for 2004. It is not as easy to operate the kind of horror propaganda that the representative Schjött-Pedersen does. But at least our rapporteurs will do their best to ensure that it is not cut in old age care in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e582	The Progress Party shall promote several proposals in the context of the annual budgetary procedure for the municipal sector aimed at weakening the county municipality as an autonomous level of administration. I wonder how this harmonizes with the fact that the representative Per Sandberg, as a member of the District Commission, has made suggestions that seem far more positive at a directly elected regional level than what you might get the impression of in proposals No. 9, 10, 12 and 13 of the document of the Municipal Committee. In the last proposal, it is said directly – the conclusion is already clear – that the county must be closed down as a self-governing level from 2007 onwards. This might seem a little confusing to the outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e587	I, the undersigned, as a member of the District Commission, are associated with a minority of three in the configuration of the District Commission, including: together with the Right-wing Representative. We stand for two levels where the county has been removed. We only want a state level and a municipal level. At the same time, however, the signing has taken on board the chance of a regional level arising from the closure of the county, hopefully in 2007–08. I hope that the Right will vote in favour of this proposal today, so that we speed up that process and get an evaluation at an earlier stage in view of the final closure of the county. My point in setting up the District Commission is that I have taken inwards that there is likely to be a new regional level, and then I will join in looking at both the content and the function this new regional level should have. I don't want to leave it to the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party to draw the content of the new regional level. Here I want the Progress Party as a responsible party to be involved in shaping the content so that we do not get a new county municipality, only to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e594	In the setting, the Progress Party has sewn together a little bit of a grit on the immigration chapter in its comments, where they, among other things, have. says that: ‘all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and... shall enjoy equal rights, irrespective of race, colour, sex, language, religion, origin or perception’. It's just going to go that far. For inspired by Denmark, they promote proposal No. 27, where they ask for changes in the law ‘to ensure that family reunification takes place in the country to which the family is most closely related’. Let's take two examples: if a Norwegian citizen, a girl, who came two years old as a Vietnamese boater, finds a Vietnamese from Vietnam, they have to reunite in Vietnam, under this scheme. But if I or Per Sandberg find a Vietnamese girl, yes, we get family reunion in Norway. Where does the motto "My freedom ends where yours begins", as it also says in the notes? Or did it just apply to us who are pink in the skin?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e604	The President will not have opinions on the comments of other parties such as ‘sowing together’ in a porridge. The President considers it to be very unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e607	But I don't take it badly, because I have a good background in savouring. I have four years of experience as a cook in the military, and then the task was to simmer most things together so that the soldiers did not discover what the court consisted of! But to the question from the representative, when we talk about ‘the largest relationship’, it is not just the two individuals who had to apply for family reunification, that is. That's what's around the individual, the family, the community in general, and the relationship you have with your environment, which must be decisive in relation to it. The representative was in Vietnam, maybe for a particular reason, but let's take an example from Pakistan: a girl was born and raised in Norway and is going to seek family reunion with a guy from Pakistan, who might even be illiterate, etc. Here it's the Progress Party, along with the SV actually, that has seen that this is alarming, and wants to tighten up. I hope that SV will still be on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e614	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e617	For SV, good local economy is a matter of value. It's about making everyone equal and getting freedom. A good community economy can ensure a good, more modern school, at the very height of society around it, where all students actually get adapted training, succeed and learn something. It's real freedom for everyone, and it's also very modern. Good local economy provides adequate care services for children, the elderly, the sick and the disabled. It is also real freedom for everyone, and it is modern. Bad local economy, on the other hand, gives us a high level of sick leave and many unsatisfied ones again for the money. It's immature, expensive, it gives them great freedom that framework, and it's expensive for society as well. Health and social services employees, trade in goods, hotels and restaurants, clean-up and service tops sick leave statistics. It's the women's girls who are the hardest, one gets sick of the hard drive. Such a working life is free and immature. Therefore, SV believes that in 2005 the local economy needs to be strengthened by at least DKK 5 billion in free income and more than DKK 1.5 billion in earmarked grants. In addition to that, we want to compensate for the tax deficit of DKK 1.2 billion in the new phase of the 2004 budget. Then the schools, care, kindergartens, school recreation, child protection and the working environment can become modern and give people freedom in everyday life, both those who work there and those who want the offered. The Government and the Advance Party are flying a false flag when it comes to talking about freedom and modernism. We in Norway like to look at ourselves as if we're far ahead, and that's why we get completely out of control when studies show that our children are not at the top of any school performance – yes, there's going to be a lot of trouble. So someone says this isn't about money. Well, that's what men do. In a society where the main government is more money for the richest, and where the school has only one price in cost per cent. student and not seen as a value in itself, it goes wrong. The signal for our children is that money and business are most important. The signal for our children is not that the school should be top modern and the finest place in the village and town. It's the malls that are, it's the private welfare that is. And for the most part, this society says to its children, don't be so stupid that you bet on a highly competent, but low-wage woman. Then we reward you with a bad back, a sticker in your forehead where it says that you're an expense, and you get a lower pension when you get old. On the other hand, if you want to become a speculator, you're a smart person that we think should be rewarded with tax bribes and status saying that you're important in society, and that politics needs to be aligned with your needs, because you deserve it. This is kids, because they see it every day, so we can't be surprised when we get such results. We also believe that we are at the forefront of social equality for people with disabilities. That's wrong. They experience discrimination, yes outright apartheid every day, because municipalities and the state buy discrimination for many billions every year, and the private is not much better. This has to be changed. SV is today promoting a proposal that all public procurement should take such considerations into account, and I once again call on the parties that say they are in favour of this, to vote in favour of the proposal, because it is a political question whether we should say that we should not buy discrimination or not. What the government has done so far is that it says it should consider it. It's not a political stance, it's unvaluation. The SV's alternative budget would provide 17 000 more jobs. In addition, we are increasing the measures for the unemployed, because action is working. It works for those who are unemployed and rehabilitation for the disabled. But it works if the setup has quality, if it's customized to the individual, and if it comes in time. Waiting for people to become long-term social clients before taking massive measures seems bad. From the day one, this government has been systematic in relation to unemployment. The unemployment rate has increased, the government has cut, and fewer unemployed people are taking action today than before. Together with the so-called poverty package, this becomes difficult. In the poverty package, according to the government’s own figures, there are DKK 255 billion in 2004. In response to the Storting on the cuts only in return and the daily allowance, the Government says that the cost ceiling for next year, which will hit those who are out of work and are ill, is 60 million. kr. Attributions in the waiting time 100 million. kr, other minor changes 6 mill. NOK 125 million, reduced daily allowance. kr, and tip, there was actually the whole poverty package gone – and still a little more. So people don't get to work being threatened with poverty, they get it worse. We think it's ethically wrong, and it's a value question when the government chooses to do it like this. SV will give more freedom to those who have difficulty. If you have poor health and are unemployed and have to depend on return, rehabilitation or temporary disability benefits, you will receive NOK 17 per person. children, five days a week. Both state councils here have children, and they can for fun try to get the ends to meet now at Christmas time with 95 kroner a week to support a child. Many who receive these benefits have to go to the social office, and there they get, for example. in my old hometown, Kongswinger, 700 kroner to celebrate Christmas for if they have children. And then they're lucky, because then they live in a municipality that actually gives an extra Christmas bonus. Not everyone does. There will be a bit of a boisterous Christmas in the world's richest and best country to live in. The cost of such a modest increase for individuals is actually great for society, and it shows to some extent what we actually take from these families. A study by KS Agder shows how cuts in government benefits create major economic and social problems for people in a difficult life situation, and it systematically pushes these costs over to the municipalities, which have enough unpaid bills from before. The labour market is very important for people. We are now living in a time when social dumping is increasing, and unfortunately this government seems to think it's okay. In the newspaper on 5 December we could read that hired Polish workers build a new hospital in Akershus for a net hourly salary of 50 kroner. And there'll be more. Norwegian contractors and rental companies earn workers a lot less than the hourly wage. And no one can in the agency of rental companies, small companies, subcontractors and agents find out what these people actually get in pay, what kind of employment they have, and whether the papers are in order, because there are not enough people who control and have insight. How is it possible, when you say that you are opposed to social dumping, not to be willing to agree to stronger instruments to prevent this? It is quite revealing when government parties and the Progress Party do not agree that wage dumping, poorer work environment and less job security are neither socially acceptable nor a strategy that can ensure Norwegian jobs. In addition, the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and SV have written that industry needs to be strengthened through ‘high quality, high competence and environmentally friendly products and production’ and that strategies to increase competitiveness are stronger education and research policies, an active industrial policy focusing on innovation, responsible state ownership and a strong regional effort. So this is the Government and the Advance Party against it. This must mean that they actually want wage dumping in Norway, want an even greater stretch of the team, and that there should be less job security and a poorer working environment. I need to ask if this can really be the Christian People's Party's policy. The district policy has been discussed by several speakers today, and, like the Workers' Party and the Centre, SV will place a strong emphasis on it. We think people have to live where they want to. But it's a political responsibility to make it possible. Government spending too little on regional policy instruments, and support for businesses and regions is falling. But far more seriously, they are dropping out of taking district policy considerations into all other policies and making it seem centralizing. SV believes that all matters need to be tested on the regional impact. Moving some jobs between large cities does not help. SV believes that we need to use the space for action that we have, and that the EEA Agreement gives us the opportunity. In this way, we can greatly strengthen the specific regional policy instruments. But, of course, we also have the opportunity to take rural policy considerations into account in all policies, and then we will experience a much more even and balanced development across the country. Is there any suggestions left that SV has not recorded?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e649	There's one left.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e652	Then I'll deal with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e657	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e662	The Labour Party and SV agree on many issues in this setting, both in terms of housing policy, labour market policy and welfare in the municipal sector. That is why I want to cooperate with SV after the next election in the fall, if we can do the job so that we get multiple numbers and the country gets a new government option. But I still want to challenge SV in one area, and it's in the area of freer municipal tax administration. SV believes that opening up to a freer municipal tax ring is a good incentive to strengthen local democracy and increase the urban space for action. Yes, I see it, but don't worry that this can also create big differences between municipalities, because municipalities with residents of the so-called high-wage class are having more problems than municipalities where the average people feel less, e.g. out in district municipalities and in municipalities where a large proportion of the population live on different social security schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e670	SV's starting point is the local economy of SV, which is the strongest in Stortinget. But we see that there is a need to give local democracy some own instruments. And what we see now is big changes in the income system for the municipal sector, which is turning towards central struts, where there are many people. These are changes that this government is also accelerating. There are many people, and there are also many who have good advice. And a lot of them want to be on a duel, for example. to restore closed swimming pool, to keep youth clubs open or to make a lift in the care of the elderly or the disabled. SV believes that it would have been good, as a unanimous KS committee has said, to give municipalities the opportunity to print an increased taxpayer for a shorter period, a limited period, to special projects. We think that's a good idea, and we think it might be an instrument for the municipalities that Upbeøn Hansen says will benefit most from this, and then maybe we can also ease the pressure on the district councils, that these are affected, which is now happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e677	Temporary employment will have a particular impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, where the risk of employment often means that they do not dare to expand at the time of the possibility. Temporary employment also facilitates the updating of experience and skills by people with weak links to the labour market. Experience has therefore shown that many temporary staff are offered permanent employment either in the company in which they were temporarily employed or in other enterprises. The SV, on the other hand, believes that temporary employment imposes on the individual major stresses due to the uncertainty which this will entail. I was therefore surprised that SV is now looking for an IT employee – temporarily – in its own main organisation. Is this also an area where SV's practical policy is in direct contrast to SV's rhetoric?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e689	No, no, no, no, no. This just shows that with today's laws, it's actually possible to hire people temporarily when you need it. It's not like right-wing manufacture, that it's completely impossible, and that this is a grip that's absolutely necessary. On the contrary, the Labour Environment Act, as it stands today, is very flexible in many areas, if employers use the mechanisms that are there and agree to them in a proper way. Temporary employment affects women, and it affects young people, because they are the most marginal in the labour market today. It is in the positions that are already the most uncertain and underpaid, there will be even more such employment. For example, it will be impossible to apply for a mortgage when you have such a job. It is true that several of those who have been temporarily employed get a job. But why? Well, it's because today's law is such that an employer, if you have had a temporary employee for a certain period, is required to look after him permanently. This is how the system works today. But with the changes in the laws that Right wants, it won't work that way, and that will result in many going on in such temporary positions for a long time in life. It will hit them very hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e698	The representative Karin Andersen spoke positively as usual about increasing transfers of funds for most of all good public purposes. At the same time, SV is similarly very negative to private services in schools, kindergartens and the care sector. In my view, SV's policies will require a dramatic increase in public expenditure, which must necessarily be financed by equally dramatic increases in taxes and charges for most people. SV wants freer municipal tax law, and that's okay. But at the same time, SV per. today against municipal corporation tax. Then I would like to ask, how does it relate to SV wanting freer municipal tax legislation, but nevertheless is against freer municipal corporation tax? Does that mean that only ordinary employees will be affected when SV will introduce freer municipal tax law?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e705	It's always a little comical to listen to the Progress Party, which is like the distribution party in Stortinget, and who spends money as a full seaman every day and also raises the index finger to SV, who has put forward a balanced budget, where we show how to finance our increases. With regard to the difference between corporation tax and a freer municipal taxpayer, a freer municipal taxpayer is a good thing where the different political parties can invite people and say, Will you be in this? Now we go to the election to increase the municipal taxpayer, and then we can do that or that measure in our municipality. So some parties might say that no, we don't want that, we think it's more important with lower taxes. But corporate tax is a tax that today goes to the municipalities. It's being pulled in now, and it's being distributed to all the municipalities. So the 5.5 billion that are now being reallocated is now in the municipal economy. They are taken from all the municipalities, they, and then they are given to only 80 of them, the ones that have the most jobs from before, where the wheels swing the most. This has been said to have been a very unfair distribution. But the second proposal is simply about being able to invite people to a meeting. And that's what we think people are able to take a position on the sea, without either the Advance Party or the SV getting involved in it on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e712	The president might point out that she knows a lot of other professions where people can be full, so it's probably not right to stigmatise a profession that way. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e717	Yeah, things are going to be okay. We admit that the tax failure of the present year is dramatic for Kommune-Noreg. Now they're compensated for 2.2 billion of him, and it's monthly. It is essential for individual municipalities. That means 93 million. kr for Bergen, and certainly they need it with their billion deficit. That means $8 million. kr for mountain where I live, and small yellow gets 1 million. kr. There are many vocabularies and local authorities that breathe easily. The welfare community is, we can conclude with. Together with the 2.2 billion, the estimate of price and cost growth in the municipal sector in 2004 has been downgraded. That means real strengthening of the local economy with about $1 billion. Thus, we are close to full compensation for the tax failure. Things are going to be okay. For the last ten years, tax growth has been 12 billion dollars higher for the Municipality of Norway than what has been foreseen in the budget. By and large, the municipalities are kept, and it should just be missing. But then it's a positive exception that this year we're covering a large part of the 2004 tax failure. When we're going to review and discuss the local economy, we can't ignore the fact that the municipalities' free revenues have increased by over 7 billion dollars in the last two years. In addition, the effect of lower interest rates is also going to be in billions. Then we know that the wage and pension costs in the municipal sector have one of the cakes and made the situation difficult for many municipalities. We know that positive macros sometimes disappear out of some municipalities. It's frustrating. It has also happened before. It has happened under varying governments. It is not surprising that the Rattsø effects are negative for many small municipalities. Decisions taken a long time ago, under other governments, are effective today. The 2005 budget is to live with. The increase in free income does not mean that the impact of corporation tax is lower than that of the municipalities that are losing out on this reform, which will be debated later today. Otherwise, there is a reform that spokesmen throughout the country, plus KS, have wanted for years. The reform means that Bergen, who is close to my heart, gets a significant boost in their income – a necessary and just plus. It also greatly improves the finances of local authorities that the costs associated with resource-requiring users are financed through their own pot. $1.5 billion, which one had to take from the free resources, is now set aside for this purpose. Especially for small municipalities with heavy care needs, this is a change with significant financial gain. It also creates valuable care without the municipal register being emptied. This is a requested reform, which will be realised during this flooding period. We conclude that the welfare society exists. The Christian People's Party would then stress that the budget agreement improved the budget. I would like to thank the Progress Party for a smooth and smooth cooperation also in the municipal committee. We've got $3 billion more for the municipalities, and investments in school buildings are continuing. And special innovation over the same reading, and 500 million. kr for the maintenance of our churches, is good. And there's something to bring into Christmastime. The District Commission stresses the need for an honest approach to rural policy. Reaching growth in the population in all parts of the country over the next 20 years is ambitious. We want – and that is the point – to use the whole country. And it's also ambitious. The government is investing in providing a framework for business that is good enough for capital and businesses to remain in Norway. It's a huge challenge. With a wage and cost level sky-high above what large states have an hour's flight away, productivity, knowledge development and better framework conditions are needed for Norwegian business to survive and grow. Therefore, government's policy with lower interest rates, lower dollar rates and tax reliefs to business is important for the districts. The government will make it possible to compensate for the employer's fee change. Should the EU turn around and allow a graduated employer's fee, the Christian People's Party would not hesitate to use it, but honestly: it is not particularly likely, and I believe that the opposition is aware of it too. This is why the government is investing in a flexible regulatory framework and its own arrangements for the four northernmost states. The Christian People's Party is busy delegating and decentralising more responsibilities and tasks to regional and local levels. The unemployment rate has to be lowered further down. Work for all is objective No. 1st@item: inlistbox So that's what I'm saying. I'm going to say that a solution of about 4 pst. is an unattainable goal for many of our neighbouring countries. But the government expects unemployment to fall during 2005, and Aetat says that unemployment is reduced from 4.3 pst. to 3.7 pst. Things are going the right way. That's good, because unemployment is wasted with the country's most important resource, i.e. people. Then I can conclude that working for everyone is goal no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e753	That was a great conclusion. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e758	The Christian People's Party voted in 2001 to be the guarantor that tax cuts would not be at the expense of school bets. But what has happened since? Every harvest, municipalities have had to cut school budgets, while tax relief has come in the billions class. It's been pretty big sums. The Christian People's Party also opted for an increase in state subsidies to cultural schools, but in the municipality of Gaul, the cultural school has been closed because of poor municipal economy. The Christian People's Party has had to be helped both by the Workers' Party and even by the Progress Party in order to increase the appropriations for the municipalities in recent years. In consultation with the committee with rapporteurs who supported the call 'Enough is enough', the representative of Østberg stated that he agreed that there was a lack of money in the municipalities. The Labour Party also agrees. We believe that the municipalities need more money, and we also grant it. My question is: is the representative of Apelthun Sæle agreed with the representative of Østberg, who is the rapporteur on the issue of the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e769	It is not difficult to agree with the representative Signe Eye when she says that they lack money in the municipalities. In every letter I get from spokesmen and municipal politicians, they write that they lack money for many purposes. Letters are also quite full of the need to facilitate a business life that works so that the number of jobs can be increased, so that one can live in the districts and build the municipality further. Both are necessary to balance the budget. We promise our own treasures. We have followed it up something on the way. We wanted a better local economy. We have increased the transfers to the municipalities in the last two years, an increase in the free income of NOK 7 billion. I think it's significant. That's probably not enough. We could do more. At the same time, I would like to stress that we are living in the country that has been the best country in the world to live in. Four years in a row, Norway has been in a position to do that, and we have been given such an honor. That might also count that out a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e775	Initially, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for its good cooperation in the Committee. I have noticed that the Christian People's Party is very satisfied with the budget agreement in the Storting between the Progress Party and the government parties. I think this is very pleasant. But I have a small question for the Christian People's Party about the competitive outsourcing of welfare services. I would like to remind you that the government parties and the Progress Party together have provided a majority for the VAT compensation system. The purpose of this scheme is precisely that VAT should not affect the choice of service provider by local authorities. I remember that a few years ago the Christian People's Party was quite critical of competition as an instrument in the municipal sector. But does what has happened in recent years in this area mean that the Christian People's Party today sees far more positive than before in the use of competition in municipal welfare services?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e782	For the Christian People's Party, the most important heading of each system is that it should treat the inhabitants. The point of the systems we create is that we get better services, including municipal services, for the inhabitants. We see that competition can help us in that direction. That doesn't mean we're going to privatize everything possible. It doesn't mean that no old ways to organize things can work in some places – it's not possible to get competition, because there's only one offerer, and then it becomes monopoly, and monopoly is always more expensive for those who have to pay, whether it's municipalities or individuals. We have facilitated increased competition, including by municipal services. I think it's supposed to make the inhabitants think so. If you don't, we'll change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e789	The Christian People's Party has undergone a change of values in the last four years. In the Bondevik I government, they said that defrosting was a core value, and that it was a matter of human dignity and social vision. The Bondevik II government, on the other hand, says that bullying inhibits the economy, and that those who are unemployed and have a health problem need a so-called incentive to get into work. That means they're going to cut their performances and a long, raised moral index finger, and they're saying they have to get together. It'll be best for everyone if we take from the poor and give to those who are rich, this government says. Where in its values does the Christian People’s Party find support for such an unsocial and hearty distribution policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e794	There is absolutely no place that the KrF will take from the poor and give to the rich. That is not the case. It's not Christian People's Party policy. I'm not in agreement with the representative's claim for a change in value policy. This government has actually added up to a poverty package. This government has tried to smooth out, even though there are some tax cuts on the wrong side of the scale, according to KrF's opinion. We should have given most of the tax at the bottom, but we have to make a compromise and come to an agreement. In addition, the tax burden has a significant impact on business. The tax base that is given to business to boost business opportunities to give jobs to most people is also a way to smooth out the differences. The greatest differences arise when people are unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e801	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e804	Never gets more in frame transfers from the country than this year, and it's going to be more in the next year. At the same time, we know that municipalities have major challenges. In the debate and in the media, we can get the impression that this is something new. The political mind is often short. I think of many calls from the press municipalities in the 1980s and 1990s when the Central Party had the municipal minister in the central government, and under the government of Stoltenberg in 2000-2001. At that time we had district uprisings, high interest rates, high dollar rates, and many industrial jobs were lost. The unemployment rate was rising. I remind you of this at a time when NRK's district missions are making crisis resolutions about a municipality that can't afford to pay for the organist and church servant a Sunday a month, and about an elderly but special lady who rents help from a private local maid to go to the store. The programme manager nod to worry and suck over poor municipal economy, without reflecting that this may not be the municipality's most important task. I do not say this to underestimate the challenges in the municipalities, but it is also about local priority, local responsibility and sometimes about what the public should not be responsible for. The co-operation administration has prioritised the municipal sector in all the State budgets it has submitted. In addition, at all budgetary conciliation, we have found room to add even more. When one hears a complaint from the Labour Party, one should not believe that they have been co-responsible for the 2004 budget and that the Progress Party has also prioritised the municipalities among its budgetary requirements. The left is happy about it. I believe that the policy will focus on a more honest approach and an honest analysis. It has always been difficult to determine the tax revenue in the country. In nine of the last 12 years, these have been larger for municipalities than calculated by the state budget, and the municipalities, with the exception of 1996, have retained more growth. Then there have been a few years of tax failure, and this has of course caused problems. I am pleased that, in the context of this year's budget negotiations, we received NOK 3 billion more at our disposal, so that, in cooperation with the Progress Party, we could compensate for the tax deficit in 2004 and increase the fees to the municipalities for 2005 as well. In Norway, we have achieved good paymaking over the last few years. It should only be lacking that this did not also benefit the municipality, but of course this has resulted in a large proportion of the extra allowances to the sector having gone to pay growth, increasing pensions, etc., and not increasing activity or strengthening the financial situation. Another major and important reason for the imbalance in the local economy is that politicians in this room are in need of detailed management of the municipalities. The majority see great mistrust in their own local populace. If $6 billion, which is now being used annually as a result of the kindergarten agreement, would have been given as free funds to the municipalities, yes, many of the problems would have been solved. Maybe we've already achieved full kindergarten coverage? But the parties that screamed the highest would rather give priority to a bureaucratic max-price system and prizes for a lot of people who could afford to pay more. Yes, there could be more care or care for the school. But this choice would not allow the opposition to take the local politicians. The State shall also determine the sibling's moderation and the prices of the SFO, set minimum standards for the nursing home and school and a number of other important tasks. Is it so hard to understand that the sum of this is going to be an undermining of local democracy and of the local authorities' ability to run the economy and services in the best possible way? The working party understands this in theory. The name of the programme in question includes:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «In recent years, the Community has been given many new tasks, while an increasing proportion of revenue is earmarked for specific purposes. The earmarking has provided a strong need for centralised adaptations, reporting and control. The bureaucracy has increased. The freedom of municipalities to decide and choose solutions adapted to local conditions has been reduced. The real responsibility for the tasks has been shifted from the communities’. ... ‘People have increasingly directed their desires and demands against corruption and government instead. Thus, local democracy and the real possibility of political governance have also been undermined. In today’s society, it is neither possible nor desirable to top up welfare solutions to be adapted to very different local environments and many different individual desires.’ This could be the Left's program. In practice, the Labour Party stands for something else. An even more extreme destruction of local democracy and local economic rationality stands for the Socialist Left Party. The center party is probably the opposition party that talks hotly about increasing local governance, but they don't follow this up in practical politics either. The cooperation management has been for a change of pace, for decentralization and local freedom, but unfortunately the majority of people in a big crowd are happy to stop this. If we cannot stop this tangle of central government, our local democracy is in danger of disappearing. It doesn't want the left hand side. Finally, of course, we support all proposals and comments that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e841	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e844	I take a line on May Britt Vihovde, because although the Left is not represented in the committee, they do as May Britt Vihovde says – they support all the comments and everything that is written by the Right and Christian People's Party in the committee. The left is in a government which has implemented the greatest intensification of refugee and immigration policy since the adoption of the previous Foreign Affairs Act. They opted for increased labour immigration and a more humane refugee policy. So they've been on restraints, they're on Norwegian training in receptions, and they've been involved in cutting the number of refugees that we receive at the United Nations' invitation, from 1,500 to 1,000. They are more likely than before to listen to UNHCR's recommendations and have been involved in excluding some of the people who get family reunification with refugees from the introduction program, and they have also been involved in throwing at the street people who have finally been denied their application. And my question is, Does the Left think this is fine?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e851	If the Left had implemented its policy of increasing labour immigration, we might not have had the great pressure we have today on our asylum and refugee institute. Then we could have opened the boundaries of those who want to come to Norway to work here and who can support themselves. So instead, we've got a situation where very many people who seek asylum are trying to represent themselves as refugees, and this is actually undermining our whole institute. We want a refugee and asylum policy where those who need a port of refuge, where those who are real asylum seekers and refugees, will come to Norway and we will help them. Those who want to come to Norway to get a better life, and can take care of themselves, they're going to get a chance to do that. Therefore, it was absolutely necessary to streamline asylum and refugee policy simply because we need to have an assistive device that provides for those who really need it, while those who do not need it and who do themselves are allowed to come to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e856	It is bad to listen to a representative who is at home in Sveio, who comes with such a light presentation of what the municipalities are struggling with today. She makes visits to various batches, including the Centre Party, and makes it appear that the situation is not special at the beginning of 2005. Then I would just like to remind you of what the Government itself writes in the municipal bill: the net operating surplus for the local government sector has in the current growing period varied between 0.5 and 0.9 pst. annual. So it's way below the recommended level of 3 pst. There is a clear indication of a lack of economic balance, and there is a clear indication of the lack of consistency that is now between tasks and means. It's a dramatic deterioration in relation to what it was when this government took over. I hope Left notices this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e861	I have never tried to present it as if the municipal sector were not tired today. The representative of Melting Group Kleppa pointed to the imbalance between tasks and means. Yes, that imbalance may have arisen because in this will we constantly impose new tasks on the municipalities, and we detail the municipal sector, so that they have to do tasks that could have been done by others, or that they could have done in the way that they themselves thought was much better for the inhabitants. In fact, we in the Left want our local populace to have that possibility. Then I want to say that no government has ever proposed greater promises and transfers to the municipal sector than the Samaritan government has done. But there's been a tax failure. It has a clear compensation for $2.2 billion in 2004. But in those years, the municipalities had a larger tax income, we never withdrew the money. Money was left to municipalities. It actually wants the Left to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e871	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e874	Very many municipalities are struggling these days to balance their budgets. The municipalities feel that this year's situation is worse than ever. Schools are threatened with closure, teaching positions have to disappear, and training provision disappears. Hospitalisation sites and other badly needed services for the elderly and others with a need for care are disappearing. In spite of the need for more staff in the care and training professions, it is precisely in these groups that unemployment is increasing most. It hits the elderly, sick and children hardest. The deficit in municipalities is rising, and in 2003 it amounts to a total of DKr 13.1 billion. The Workers' Party agrees that resources should be shifted from administration to services. But we disagree when the demand goes at the expense of quality, that older people have to be half the day, and that they don't get a shower when they want, because the manning is too low. The working party believes that the pain limit has been reached in many municipalities. The government's answer is an increase of only NOK 1 billion to the municipalities for the next year. There is not even enough to cover the additional costs of municipalities as a result of changes in the population. Following the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party, the municipalities receive 800 million. NOK more, not NOK 3 billion, as you try to make it like this. It's a little bit. For my home municipality, Hobøl, it will be NOK 617 000. It's like a drop in the ocean. The municipality will save 15 million. kr. At first the politicians thought it was a joke when they heard the amount, because everyone had the impression that it was NOK 3 billion, but it wasn't. There was no joke. That's the reality they had to relate to. The Labour Party will grant SEK 4 billion to the municipalities next year in addition to what the Government proposed. Of these, $3.5 billion is going to be free income. It would have given a completely different situation for the inhabitants of the municipalities. So for immigration. In order for our new countrymen to create a future in Norway, it is imperative that they master Norwegian. All children born and raised in Norway should speak Norwegian before they start school. Immigrant children are strongly underrepresented in kindergartens. Cheaper kindergartens and free core time are tools for recruiting more people. The working party believes that cash support stimulates the opposite and prevents early language development. All-day homework will be a good thing for everyone, but especially for students from low-resource homes, whether they are minority or ethnic Norwegian. A bloom of private schools, as we now see, is an obstacle to good integration. We have always strongly disagreed with the fact that Norwegian training for asylum seekers in reception was cut off, and in our budget has allocated 78 million. kr, so that Norwegian training can be reintroduced. The Progress Party also has this year a number of proposals on immigration policy. However, it is not a matter of intervention when the party intends to address the social losses of a lack of integration, while not being willing to take action to achieve the objective of better integration. The Labour Party believes that forced marriage is still a problem, and that we have not been able to initiate measures that work. We therefore believe that more measures need to be considered, including: age limit and access requirements. We also ask the matter of equal rights to divorce. So a few words about the training of imams. The Workers' Party has proposed a compulsory introduction programme for religious leaders in this country, which is to be a prerequisite for residence and work permits. On several occasions the Government has referred to St.meld. No 49 for 2003-2004, that such a scheme has already been proposed and that our proposal is redundant. I have tried hard to find this in the message. The only thing that says there is a short section saying that ‘shall develop its own training modules for use in community knowledge education of religious leaders’, with ‘society over a week, or a few weekends’. How the Council of State can make this a mandatory introduction programme is incomprehensible to the Workers' Party. That the Progress Party does not support us is also quite striking. Finally, a little about the housing situation. The number of grants of favourable loans to help disadvantaged people enter the housing market has fallen sharply in the last year. Last year, 6,500 people were granted a start-up loan. This year the number of applications granted is halved. There is little doubt that the Workers' Party has been right that the new start-up loan does not work according to the intentions. When people have to worry about getting a loan, it's something that's ripping off. The Labour Party believes that the scheme must be amended immediately and that the municipalities must be relieved of the responsibility for sitting with the whole risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e900	It's approaching Christmas. We should all have been a little happier than we are in this debate. In fact, the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs has never been bigger. We spend more money in all policy areas, just as this government has spent more money in all policy areas, almost, during this period. We have increased public service appropriations by NOK 20 billion over the course of four years. We have increased the funding for the transmission systems by NOK 20 billion over four years. Not everything has been wanted, because this, among other things, is an expression that we have too much unemployment, and that we have too many people who are sick. That is why we have involuntarily spent a lot of money on the transfer systems. Then we've used approx. €20 billion to implement a tax policy to help ensure future well-being, a tax policy that is primarily about making Norwegian jobs, especially in districts, more profitable. Norwegian district industry is characterised by family-owned enterprises. Norwegian district industry is characterised by entrepreneurs who have started their own business and who would like to have released the divisional model. There are many more of these types of enterprises in Norwegian districts than there are in Norwegian cities. In Norwegian cities there are more of such companies that are experts in, among other things. to adapt to the sharing model and to have a passive 34 pst-owner, which does not contribute to the enterprise. Such enterprises pay lower taxes than the district company that does exactly the same, but that have not found a passive 34 pst. owner, and that then have to pay much higher taxes. This is the tax reform in the budget, which is to do justice between those who run their active enterprise and who do not adapt to a tax system and those who adapt to a tax system and therefore receive everything as capital income. We've been committed to lowering marginal taxes, because we want to tax capital income and employee income equal. It's a prerequisite for creating a tax system that allows us to remove the divisional model. That someone in this hall believes that we can maintain a big difference and still remove the sharing model is unexplainable to me. There will be a lot of fine work for many tax bureaucrats in the years to come, so that they can take care of the adjustments that are going to take place. This is an example of the fact that much of what happens in other areas is important for example: regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, regional policy, The ability to create an economic base for our communities is important for the local economy. All the municipalities that are struggling today know that, among other things. the municipalities of the Finnish coast. They know that if you don't have private jobs in employment, you don't have a good local economy either, and you can't get to future-optimism. On the other hand, expenditure has increased. So there's a link between what we do to strengthen Norwegian businesses by facilitating cost pressure, for example. through the tax and tax system and the use of goods in Norwegian districts. It is important to say this, because we have a Norwegian political debate that gives the impression that everything is about what is within our country's borders, at a time in world history where the world has never been so globalized and we in the field of immigration really notice the migration trends, but in the area of the competition of Norwegian districts and Norwegian business, in and of Norwegian communities, not the relationship between Oslo and Tromsø, or Tromsø and the coast of Finnmark, but the international competitiveness of Norwegian business. That's why it's so important that the big grips are taken. It is also important that we look at the cause of, for example: the crisis we now have on the Finnmark coast. There is no one who does not understand that there is a terrible difficult situation. That's why I'm glad we're getting 75 million in the 2004 budget. kr. Then we get the money to follow up the initiative I have taken, among other things. to the county. I would like to stress that when we have said that the county council should have a development role, they must fill that role by proposing what to do. That is what I have requested from the county councils. What is their strategy proposal? What are their proposals for action? It's not that we're not going to set up. I am pleased that we are getting the funds to set up different fields in relation to the situation in Vardø, and therefore not only there, but also elsewhere. But what is the background to the crisis? In 2002, we received a high interest rate, high interest rates and high activity in the Norwegian economy. We had had strong wage growth over many years, and all this meant that Norwegian competitiveness deteriorated every year by 2 pst. in relation to competitors. Drastic technological improvements in freezing technology made others there too, and it was an overinvestment on the Finnmark coast. It's pretty important to include, because in the balancing proposition that we're going to deal with in the Storting, we have to grant more than 100 million. to the loss funds of the district-based schemes, inter alia. to pay the bills relating to losses due to overinvestments in Finnmark and some other places, such as: is due to a problematic resource access that was probably in a grey zone, I think, if not in the geographic grey zone. It was based on the Russian cod to be landed in Norway, but there was no permanent scheme. One of the most dangerous things we can do if we have overinvested in an industry is to make sure that those who have the worst, get debt cancellation and can start up again, because then we will create different conditions of competition for them and for those who have actually managed to start up. This means that simple measures, as some of them the Workers' Party have proposed in the past, and which the Stortinget has rightly voted down, as a refinancing plan by the whole fishing industry, would have resulted in the communities in Finnmark and elsewhere that are currently doing well and that have managed to get up again, would have been more vulnerable, because they would have had different conditions of competition. It is also initially a question of raw material access, although we have reached the goal of the Senterpartie, e.g., a raw material access in Finnmark of 20 pst. At the moment, it actually lands 20.8 pst. in Finnmark. When I spend some time on this, it's not because there's a lack of willingness to understand the pain that's in many of these communities, and the problems of conversion that are there, but because I think that in political overconfidence we don't have to pick the tools that make new communities lose their growth power because they're out of competition by someone we've tried to help. Therefore, it is quite important that we identify good measures and that we also identify remedies. We're going to follow this closely up. Then I have registered that my colleague in the party Amund Enge in Etne this year has become the favourite object of the Workers' Party in all lines. I want to say two years ago, it was Arve Toning. I think it's sad that no representatives have quoted Ton's receipt of the budget for this year – he cheered. He was the most critical of the rapporteurs two years ago, and was most often used by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and others. He's very satisfied, because he's been fighting for a fairer income system for the municipalities, which is actually being implemented. You can always find one – I think I can find quite a lot – from other parties that have been dissatisfied with previous governments, but that is so that the previous truth witness is now satisfied. Of course, most of the Right People and Rapporteurs think that we could spend more money in the municipal sector. I do, too, as long as we can do so within a responsible financial framework that does not contribute to the growth of costs and to the loss of competitive jobs. I am particularly pleased with some parts of this budget that have been promoted, which are going through the Storting today. In particular, we are continuing to focus on the development of integration. For the Government there has been a priority from day one. I am very pleased that there is a large and broad majority in the Stortinget who agree that it should be a priority. We have put in place very many of the major and important legislative reforms. It is now important to create good measures and development in municipalities. The law of introduction is in place. The rights and obligations of Norwegian training are in place. What we have entered into the budget now is, among other things, the start of what we call a ‘new opportunity for immigrants’, which is part of the poverty programme of the Government. These are those who do not come under the new measures because they are not new but who have been here for a long time and need additional help to get out of a poverty situation and out of a non-working situation. We have also spent money, as for the current year, on the most vulnerable ethnic groups, among others. the Somali group, for which we have implemented several measures this year, to help them out of a difficult situation, measures that are particularly concerned with the use of organisations working closely with them, and to provide them with more resources, so that they can cope better in Norwegian society and not least focus on being good parents for their children. Both parts are part of the poverty effort that the Government has committed, and that is also what we have put in place to improve housing measures in this area. We can talk about how large the appropriations are every year, but I have to say that we have, for example. not cut into housing aid schemes. However, there is less consumption this year than we had estimated it would be, which is also propagating to next year. Why? Well, because people actually have a better income development, people get across borders, and it can't be that if more people manage themselves, it means that we're less committed to helping people, when we have exactly the same code and we actually also get improvements within the housing support system, as in removing the square meter limit for individuals and for more groups. There's a lot of things we could have done, but I think it's important to say that we take a few steps every year, for example. in order to improve and focus on the housing aid scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e938	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e941	I will be allowed to come back to the question of Finnmark in a later article. With regard to the issue today, I would like to point out that the changes in the EU regional aid legislation seem to open up so that we can reintroduce the graduated employer fee. That's good. In the District Commission, however, the representatives of all the government parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, have unanimously stated: ‘The differentiated employer’s fee is not recommended to be extended again. The scheme is expensive and can act as a preservative in terms of economic development.» It's alarming. The more interesting it is that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party in today's position are also not involved in a comment on the importance of reintroducing a graduated employer's fee. It's even more eye-catching. Therefore, I allow myself to ask – not Municipal Minister Erna Solberg, but Højre’s head – Erna Solberg: Will the Right commit to reintroducing the former classified employer’s fee whose State aid rules open it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e955	Even though the people in the District Commission represent parties, they do not always manage what the truth of the party is. There has been no doubt that the Right wishes to have a differentiated employer’s fee, and that we want it in the future if it is possible to do so. And then there's something in the comment that's added, which is kind of not quite right either. It says, among other things: ‘use the opportunity now available for negotiations with a view to achieving the unanimous wish of the Grand Duchy’. So there is no debate. We are a common hearing party that is allowed to give some opinions. This is not being negotiated. It is the Commission that adopts a regulatory framework which is the framework for its own activities for the others. It is in retrospect that the framework comes into place, and that is the framework that is crucial to whether we are going to get what we call more flexibility in legislation at all in some areas. It is then possible to discuss which map Norway is going to have, and what criteria will be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e962	I ask for the floor for an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e969	The President is very uncertain whether these obvious misunderstandings are real. I think most people have understood this. However, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is given the floor to clarify the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e972	There is a manifest misunderstanding in the sense that the majority’s comment in the Committee on Negotiations is not based on a classified employer’s fee and State aid legislation. It is in relation to the discussion of the matter that is now under consideration and that has been sent for notification. There, this legislation provides an opening for negotiation by the majority of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg asking the Government to exploit it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e977	Yeah, we got it. Will the Council of State Solberg comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e980	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e988	During the state council's speeches today, I seemed to notice a certain glowing sense for the county council, and in this context for the Finnish county council, which, as a development actor, is to take care of the problems that Finnmark is facing. But now I know that the Council of State and I fully agree that we should have put a line over the county district a long time ago. To a large extent, the District Commission agrees. That is why I would challenge the Council of State on one of many good proposals from the Progress Party in the vote today, proposal No. 13, where we ‘ask the Government to accelerate the evaluation of the new county municipality in view of the final closure of the county municipality as a self-government level from 2007’. This is now also a strong wish from the municipal sector and from the county municipalities themselves. In order to clarify finally the future regionalisation of Norway, there is a strong desire to speed this up, so that the conditions for employees and politicians at these levels are clarified as quickly as possible in order to remove ambiguities and uncertainties. Is there a proposal that the Council of State might recommend to its government parties here on the Stortinget to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e995	I will first be allowed to say that no, I am not inflamed with the county municipality. Usually I'm accused of being the opposite. I think that when we have delegated responsibility, when we have implemented a reform and we have said that the county has a task, then we must be loyal to it. It also means that we should substantiate this role, and not do what the Big thing does very often when we have decentralized and delegated a task, that is to say, this matter is so mediatically important, so important to people and to the perception of me as a politician, that I have to take it to the Bigthing. This actually undermines the delegation we've done. That's one of the reasons why I'm concerned about saying that once we've implemented a reform where we in the Ministry of Local Affairs have deprived ourselves of the tools that we had in the past, we're also going to be loyal and not start reintroducing these tools because we feel, after pressure from some incidents, that it would be politically more convenient. I think that's a neat decentralization. With regard to the evaluation and new proposal: I do not think it is appropriate for us to be able to close the county municipality in 2007, but we need to clarify the future of a regional level around 2007. We're going to contribute to that in the next big period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1004	We have over 5,000 homeless people. Arguing governments have only managed to bring down this figure by 1,000 in the last six years. We have an increase in the number of discards, despite the fact that a unanimous rise has had a plan to do the opposite. We have an increase in the number of people receiving social assistance, especially in Oslo. We have a housing support scheme that is so weak and includes so few that 2 billion kroner for housing and financing of housing are paid over the social aid budget. One would then think that if we sat down and decided that we were going to spend some more money on the housing sector, there were some of these areas that would be in line with what the Right saying is targeted, incentive-based and well-focused use of money, and that it was going to go to some of these groups. But that's not what you chose to spend SEK 1.9 billion on next year's budget. Instead, you chose to give the money in house taxes, and then most of the money to the people who live up here. My question is, did the government never think that these SEK 1.9 billion would have been more useful for the homeless and for people who have poor finances and no housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1013	There are many of us who could certainly have done without the tax on the house tax. But for some people it is vital that they get a safe and dignified old age that they continue to live in their community, in an area they are familiar with and have lived in for a long time. There are many older people who live in the house they have lived in for many years, where they have their neighborhood, their friends and their contacts, and who, in fact, because they have low pensions, are charged when they get high property taxes, of which SV is a follower. The house tax that is, can be the margin that makes them unable to stay where they live. When older people have to move from where they have lived for a long time, their situation is considerably exacerbated. That's one thing you know from the geriatrics. It's not so good to be moved a lot when you've come up high in the years. Especially because you lose your network, it can get harder. In fact, it is a group I think you forget when you discuss the house tax. I would like to give a longer talk about the homeless. I think the Municipality of Oslo has done a great job with her bet on homeless people. We are now down to 1,300 fewer than what we were at an earlier time, and that is primarily the proceeds of the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1027	The Council of State is unusually self-satisfied with the Government's 2005 plan. She found reason to remind the Storting that it is soon Christmas. It is even said that in this debate she writes Christmas cards. The government’s lack of planning for 2005 means that not all those in this country can participate in this Christmas party. It is true that there has never been any use of more money, e.g. in the municipal sector. But it is also true that there are difficult challenges that are not being met, not least to individuals who need help and follow-up. What is Right's strategy further? Is it to reduce the gap between tasks and resources in the municipal sector, or should we continue in the same way and hope for a rescue operation – not from the Christian People's Party, but from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1036	Yes, on the part of the Government, we are concerned about reducing the gap between expenditure and income in the local government sector. We have been since we started as a government, because the imbalance has occurred a long time ago and has been reinforced by the fact that we have had tax failure in the first two years, which has made us have had a negative growth in this period. To remind me of something I have remembered several times before: Some of the problem was that all the reserves had been used up at a time when the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa put in a government that has a record in few proposals for growth in free income as long as I can remember, and I have been sitting quite a while on the Stortinget. That was one of the reasons why it built up. In the spring we gave a message in the municipal bill that we want to escalate the income. But then we have to have less earmarking and greater freedom, so that municipalities will be able to adapt their spending levels in several areas, and so that we do not at the same time operate on and give specific, new laws that cost more money for the municipal sector to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1045	In Nittedal, over 1,000 people attended demonstration trains last week. They protested against the denunciations in the public school. In spite of the fact that Nittedal is a municipality of growth, it has been necessary to reduce by approx. 50 learning preferences. The number of students is rising. There's too little money for training. That's the way it is all over the country. In the basic school, there are now 2000 fewer teacher settings than three years ago. On the other hand, the number of elephants has increased by over 25 000. The result is less learning density and larger student groups. Money is not everything, but they have a lot to say when it comes to removing a lot of teacher settings and training is getting worse. So my question is, how can the leader in the Right explain that this development creates a better school?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1052	Just a week ago, I was at the College College, where Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party, Hill-Marta Solberg, boasted that the Labour Party government had negotiated the high pay agreements. It should not be forgotten that it was the negotiation of an efficiency agreement, and after that all teachers were to work more. It was embedded in this a larger reading obligation that would mean that there was initially fewer teaching years to do the same job as before. When you implement and get the results of the pay round, which is what the Labour Party put in the driver's seat for, and we supported it, which means fewer teaching positions in total, and when you know that teachers teach one hour more than before, it's very special that it's used as an example of being cut in Norwegian school. There has been growth in spending on Norwegian school every year in this government's period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1059	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1062	First of all, I would like to express the satisfaction of the Progress Party and my personal satisfaction that the Progress Party, together with the government parties, has reached a good budgetary agreement that will strengthen the economy of the local government by DKK 3 billion for 2004-2005. It is also absolutely worth mentioning that the Progress Party and the Government Parties have agreed on a model to reintroduce municipal corporation tax from 2005. Norway, however, is made up of 434 municipalities and, of course, among all these municipalities, there is a certain need for increased appropriations beyond the three additional billions. With regard to the issue of local economy, I have noticed that crisis maximisation has become a favorite exercise among some, especially among workers' party and centre party rapporteurs. We witnessed in the autumn that a number of workers' party and centre party rapporteurs were involved in a rapporteur's appeal to the poor community economy. There is good reason to believe, as I see it, that some workers' party and centre party rapporteurs have cried out more wolf than it really was on the basis of. I would say that this behaviour is damaging to the debate on the conditions of the local government sector. Here at Stortinget, we are witnessing that the socialist parties are competing with each other to be the best in the class of targeting poverty descriptions of the state of Norwegian municipalities. Especially the Workers' Party is moving, even this year as in previous years, far down into the great depths of the pygmy valley and down into the grave's dark hooks when they consistently paint black and complain about almost everything. Everything is wrong in Norwegian society. I must also say that the Workers' Party is in possession of a remarkable intransigence and forgetfulness when they consistently repeat worn-out slogans that the Advance Party and the government parties give more to those who have the most from before, tax relief to the richest, etc. I think more and more now are very tired of these banal and false phrases in the Workers' Party rhetoric. I would like to remind you that when the Workers' Party put itself in government a few years ago, then Prime Minister Stoltenberg boasted that Norway was in favor of the world's best country to live in. I guess it's not that much that's changed in the wrong direction since the time the Workers' Party ran the country. Since the time the Labour Party boasted that Norway was the world’s best country to live in, however, there has been a lot of positive. The interest rate has fallen dramatically to the delight of most of us. Taxes and taxes for businesses and people most have been reduced by over 20 billion kroner. On average, Norwegian households have received about NOK 50000 more to route with per person. years, and public welfare has also been strengthened by several tens of billions during this major period. How can it be that everything has become so much worse in recent years, as the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre continue to paint black and make it as? Now this black paint from these parties must soon stop! But of course, many things can be done even better. Of course, the Progress Party also sees that there is potential for improvement in several key societal areas. Not least in the public sector, things can be done better and, above all, by means of competitive outsourcing and freedom of choice as key instruments. But freedom of choice and competition are, of course, sceptical words for the socialist parties, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. For these parties, bureaucracy, detailing and policy-making seem to be far more important than increased freedom of choice. On the other hand, the Progress Party believes that freedom of choice should be a fundamental civil right in relation to, for example: to choose freely whether to let your children go to public or private school, whether to prefer public or private home help or care for the elderly, or to use a private or municipal nursery or cash support, only to mention some of the implications of freedom of choice. In addition, the Progress Party believes that freedom of choice is also a very important correction factor in order to improve the quality of public-funded welfare services. At the same time, it is important to keep costs growth in the municipal sector in line with the active use of the competitive environment. So the progress party wants a free society, with individual freedom of choice at the centre. The Progress Party will therefore fight against a society in which politicians and bureaucrats clearly govern the everyday lives of individual citizens, as the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre obviously will.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1078	This government has carried out the greatest intensification of refugee and asylum policy since the new Foreign Affairs Act was created. The state of Norway now throws people on the street if they don't do what the state wants. We step down our international obligations by accepting fewer quota refugees, and we focus on the integration work by taking away asylum seekers from Norwegian training and a meaningful everyday life in reception. I visited a reception in Trondheim on Monday at the latest, where they could tell me about this. In addition, we take from family reunions, a majority of the refugees, the right to an integration programme. SV will pursue a more humane refugee policy by following the recommendations of the UNHCR, strengthening integration, strengthening inclusion work, among others. by supporting the organisations working on this, with 5 million. kr more than the Government. We will therefore reintroduce Norwegian training for asylum seekers in the receptions from 1 January and have proposed 145 million. to this. We're going to go against the tightening up of who's going to get the introduction program, because it affects individuals. This is likely to lead to fewer municipalities accepting lone refugees because municipalities will lose the integration grant if their families arrive. This is 45 million. NOK, to give the 450 family reunions we're talking about here, a real deal. We want to give priority to bets on transfer refugees by increasing the number to 1,500, and I am stunned when Erna Solberg says that the pain limit has been reached in the municipal sector when it comes to receiving refugees. It's not the Municipalities' Central Association that says this. But it's clear they're saying that if they're going to do this task, they have to get the money from the state that's going to follow, so that they can do the job properly. We believe that the legal certainty of asylum seekers needs to be improved by considering several issues in full, and we have proposed that this should be repeated during this downtime. A good and safe housing in a good living environment at a reasonable price is the very foundation of a good welfare policy and of poverty reduction. In SV, we believe that the biggest weakness of the government’s policy is that they monopolize housing support as an instrument to help people. This in isolation contributes to increasing the prices of rental dwellings. Instead, the government should invest more in building more rental homes to help those who are now homeless, and to avoid people having to pay such a high price that they end up in the social office or are thrown out, as we have seen clear trends in the past year. The working party, SV and the Centerpartiet were in the setting of the housing message together about a large-scale investment in rental properties, low-deposit housing for the homeless, young people, refugees and others with poor advice. It's just we that follow this whole thing up, even though the Center Party also contributes. So we're going to spend 397 million. kr more on next year's government budget to build up around 3000 additional rentals. This helps to lower rental prices and dampen the price growth in the private market. There was just an SSB message about this. It shows how it is just the small apartments that are rising the most, i.e. the people's entrance ticket to the housing market. That's why we have to do something about this. We want to eliminate the homelessness, we want to get more homes for people, and we want to bring down the number of lay-outs. We want more people to get housing support, by raising the threshold of what a family of children can earn before they lose housing, up to $30,000, and we have $93 million. kr for this purpose as well as that we want to ensure that families with children are covered by the cost of light and heat. We want to follow up what the government itself proposed in the housing report, namely that both parents who have shared care for their children should be able to apply for housing support. The government currently does not support this. In addition, we're going to increase the investment in Oslo's inner east by 10 million. kr, in line with a minority of Oslo City Councillors who also want to do the same in Oslo. We want to spend more money on urban renewal and housing quality and on the development of good housing, and we want to spend 50 million. kr for this purpose. We think it is particularly funny that the government in negotiations with the Progress Party has removed the last 15 million. kr on this chapter, which is money that is tied up from previous years. We wonder if this is just "hairy money". We want to invest in the renovation of several school buildings, we want to set up housing housing schemes in several of the big cities where there are high prices, and we want to follow up the fight against social dumping by spending $10 million. extra kr to Petroleum Control and 5 mill. kr extra to the Swedish Labour Inspectorate – all in all a good bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1099	A main goal of the Government is a working life with space for everyone. Participation in the labour market is the main safeguard for social inclusion and the main means of combating poverty. High levels of professional participation and good use of labour are therefore of paramount importance in maintaining and developing well-being. Norway has one of the highest rates of professional participation and one of the lowest rates of unemployment throughout the OECD region. Low long-term unemployment is also a significant feature of the Norwegian labour market, and now the Norwegian economy is in the cyclical upswing. By the end of November, about 83 600 persons were registered with Aetat as full-time job seekers. This is a drop of 3,700 compared to the same time last year. The government assumes that the improvement in the labour market will gradually lead to a sharper decline in unemployment. However, even with an improvement in the labour market, we face important and challenging labour market policy tasks in 2005. As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I am pleased that the focus on work has broad support in the Committee's position. This means increasing efforts in the fight against poverty and increasing the focus on getting people with disabilities and unemployed back into work, and at this stage of the economic recovery, there are these groups that we need to give the highest priority. In order to strengthen the follow-up of jobseekers, funds for over 700 new annual works have been allocated in Aetat in recent years. This is more than any other government has added up for many years. The scheme of the Government provides a level of the ordinary labour market measures of less than 12 500 places for the 1st half of 2005. There is a level of action that is well adapted to the expected improvement in the labour market in 2005, as well as the Government’s strategy of increasing emphasis on the self-employment of jobseekers and close follow-up from Aetat. Long-term unemployed, including long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, immigrants and young people, are given priority within the framework of action areas. The need for action sites in the second half of 2005 will be further assessed in the revised national budget. In addition, the government also wants to strengthen attempts at municipal task differentiation next year. In the last year, the Municipality of Oslo, in the Sagene and Old Oslo districts, has been involved in efforts with municipal responsibility for labour market measures. The government now wants to expand this attempt by two new urban areas, Alna and St. Hanshaugen. We will therefore come back to Stortinget with our own proposal to redeploy funds from Aetat to municipal budgets. Vocational rehabilitation is one of the main instruments for increasing the participation of people with disabilities. The number of job-seekers registered with Aetat has been increasing over several years. For 2005, the Government has proposed a strengthening of the action level for disabled persons of about 2000 places compared to the 2004 allocation. This is a high-recorded commitment to labour market measures for people with disabilities. A further increase in the number of places under the measure Permanently organised work, VTA, has been prioritised through the committee treatment, in order to increase the number of people with disabilities at work. The government has also proposed a new test scheme with wage subsidies to get more disability pensioners back to work. Workers who now want to try to work in the labour market should be able to take with them the disability pension of a new employer as a payroll allowance. The experiment will take place in the counties of Hedmark, Rogaland, Süd-Trøndelag, Telemark and Troms. I have noticed that a majority of the Committee points out that there is too much time ahead of implementing measures. Placing the disabled on good labour market measures or with potential employers is often demanding. Experience has shown that there is difficulty in speeding up measures for the disabled. The Committee wants a review of the recycling field, and I want to follow this up. The Government will come back with a communication to this effect after the proposal for a new labour and welfare management has been addressed in the Stortinget. In addition, as part of the agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party on the State Budget for 2005, it has been possible to extend the temporary extension of the period of leave from 26 weeks to 42 weeks for all industries until 1 July, when a review will be carried out. The budgetary agreement also agreed to reduce the employer’s pay obligation by leave of ten to five days. At the outset, the majority in the committee and the minority in the Chamber stressed that developments in very many areas were going in the wrong direction. I think there is reason to remember that we have had an economic development that means that the strangely high interest rate that was when the Co-operation Government took over is now completely gone. Is that a wrong direction? The number of persons employed has increased by 15 000 since the summer of 2003. Is that a wrong direction? Unemployment has fallen from 4.3 pst. to 3.7 pst. Is that a wrong direction? The number of longterm unemployed is reduced by 3,500. Is that a wrong direction? As a result of the high interest rate, the krone price increased sharply throughout 2002, which has reversed. Is that a wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1127	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1130	In his speech to the National Government of the Christian People's Party on 5 November in the autumn, Labour Minister and party leader Dagfinn Høybrätten Einar Gerhardsen quoted. When Einar Gerhardsen was asked at the end of his life what he was most proud of having been given as a politician, he replied, "No one has to stand in the hand." It's a grippingly good quote, with a grippingly good political content. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: why is the Government pursuing a policy that goes in the opposite direction, by exacerbating the rules on sick pay, exacerbating the rules on leave, so that more people can lose their jobs, continue to cut their daily allowances, invest too little in labour market measures for the over 100,000 unemployed in our country and make too little so that they can get to work and support themselves and their families? I mean, the speech to the leader of the Christian People's Party is not in line with the politics of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1139	I appreciated if the representative Upbeøen Hansen had taken the time to quote a little more of what I said to the Christian People's Party government in that speech. I used Einar Gerhardsen's statement to say that my experience in health care, in the municipal sector and in the social security system suggests that there are many people in this country who feel that they are in trouble when they meet the government. That is why we want to carry out a thorough reform of public employment and welfare management, so that people are less likely to feel like wasteballs, and to a lesser extent feel that they are trapped in benefits instead of getting into work. The measures proposed by the Government in this area have had one aim, and it has been to ensure that the working line introduced by the governments of the Workers' Party early in the 1990s is implemented to a greater extent, so as to avoid locking up social benefits and speeding up people's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1144	The Council of State said that high levels of professional participation are important, and he said to the extent that of course this is something that all parties here on the Grand Duchy agree on. But we know that more and more people are out of the ordinary world of work and the labour market. We also know that the average retirement age from work is now well below 60 years. Now there are about 310,000 disability pensioners in this country, and there has been a dramatic increase in recent years. The council said that in relation to disability pensioners there was an attempt in some states, if I understood it correctly. What kind of strategy does the Government actually have to reduce exclusion from the labour market and reduce the number of disability pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1151	Like Andersen, I share the concern about the ever lower real retirement age, which is about 58 years old in Norway, if we see early retirement and disability pensions as a whole. We need to take new steps to prevent people from being excluded from the labour market. All experience suggests that the earlier measures are taken in the course of a disease, the more likely it is to avoid a more or less permanent outbreak. Therefore, the changes made to the search rules are important to prevent disability. It is therefore important that employers take greater responsibility for preventing sick leave, and it is therefore important that we take action to ensure that several of those who have become unemployees can get a job. The experiment has been proposed in the State budget and is adopted through the treatment of the Grand Duchy this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1156	Poverty in a rich country is a shame. The Prime Minister has said that, and the Christian People's Party has said that they mean it. The Minister of Labour has two of the most important means of preventing poverty. One is labour market measures. We know that getting to work helps people. Then the chance of being poor is much less. The second is public benefits for those who do not have work and may also have a health problem. The government constantly boasts of this poverty package. Before today I have gone through and seen that the investment in 2005, which is to be of 255 million. kr, has been eaten. So if we just look at the cuts that have been made in relation to replication and in relation to the reduced daily allowance period, we're up to 36 million. more in the cut of the unemployed group. In addition, most of them have a health problem. I wonder how the Minister of Labour can explain that this is a good policy of distribution, and whether he believes that people get a job from becoming poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1165	As I said in a previous reply here in today's debate, the measures proposed and adopted by this government under changing government councils in the labour market are geared towards one main objective, and it is to ensure that people come back to work more quickly, because labour market policy actually produces returns to the labour market and not a long-term dependence on public social benefits. This is why it is going to be a complete turn to the head to set these changes against the targeted effort of the Government, with the support of the whole of the Great Britain, in terms of the poverty plan. If it was the case that the poverty plan was so poor, why has it been unanimously adopted by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1170	Let me repeat to the previous reply that it is actually not such that the whole Biggest is pleased with the Government's bet when it comes to poverty. On the contrary, there is a large minority in Stortinget who think that there should be more active involvement both in a social housing policy, in getting more people to work, in better public services, in a more fine-worked security network instead of the rough mask that the government is putting up, in a more fair tax system and not least in a better municipal economy. So to my question, because it's up to the Council of State when it comes to progress, whether it's a good development that unemployment goes down. Of course it is. But does the Council of States think it is a good development that Norway has given more jobs after the EEA enlargement on 1 May than the other Nordic countries combined? Is it a good development that more and more Norwegians are coming to the fore and need work?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1177	I maintain that there has been a broad consensus on the Government's poverty plan. That there has been disagreement on other policy issues of a welfare policy nature is of course not a secret to anyone. I believe that developments in creating safe jobs in Norway are moving in the right direction, after a few very demanding years of low economic activity internationally and with a need for significant clean-up in the Norwegian economy. That's our biggest social project. So ask the representative Meltveit Kleppa if it is a positive development that, after the EEA enlargement, we have had an input of labour from new Member States that are larger than the other country has had. Yeah, basically I'll say it's positive. We're following the rules that we're obliged to, and we've put in place transitional rules that allow us to have a fairly good overview of what's going on, and can intervene if something goes against the assumptions we've made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1187	The Government and the Progress Party are united in the desire for the most flexible and self-regulatory labour market. At the same time, we see that increasing competition and market pressure are making the labour market increasingly thicker. Today, too many people have bad tastes. In many occupational groups, disability and early retirement are now the most common means of leaving the labour market, and the number of unemployed is the number of pathways for every single day. For the Labour Party, it seemed strange that in such a situation, a self-regulatory labour market is so important, and I would like to ask the Council of State: what kind of consequences does the Council of State think it will have for the sick absence and for the unemployability of the labour market to be as self-regulatory as possible? Does the Council of State believe that the labour market will be more or less inclusive in a self-regulatory labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1192	This Minister of Labour has expressed no objective to have the labour market as a ‘sea-regulating’. I certainly believe that our labour market should be affected by the labour law framework set up by the legislator and the rules of the game agreed between the parties. It's an important part of the welfare society that we're going to have in Norway. In some areas, adjusting to a greater degree of flexibility should not undermine this fundamental truth about the functioning of Norwegian labour market. It will reflect the proposal for a new work environment law presented by the Government to spring. There will be plenty of opportunity for the Storting to be involved and discuss the future composition of policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1199	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1202	The working party will have a more inclusive working life, where there is room for everyone. This is good labour market policy. It's good family policy, and it's good health and social policy. Therefore, it is important to focus on a less stressful, a warmer and a healthier working life. The Labour Party believes that it is right to use economic instruments that promote health promotion and penalise health-damaging jobs. I can't avoid noticing that conversion and efficiency are important for developing both public and business activities, but it should not affect employees' rights and their working environment. The main objective of the Labour Party’s economic policy is to ensure work for all. We will therefore pursue a policy that ensures that people have work, but also that those who lose work will have something to live on when they become unemployed. This is crucial in the fight against poverty. The situation on the labour market is still very worrying. It has just been a stabilisation in the number of completely unemployed in recent times. It's positive. But there are still too many people who do not have a job. I am concerned that the number of people with disabilities in the group for rehabilitation and rehabilitation is increasing so sharply. For the Workers' Party, the focus on employment, more money for the municipalities, more on school and more on health and care has been entirely decisive for our alternative budget. When it comes to the community economy, the vast majority of municipalities wear out to keep up their supply of schoolwork and care for the elderly. This is clearly linked to the fact that the majority of cases allow too little for the municipal sector. The results show that the municipalities are renouncing and reducing the well-being of the population. In the working party's alternative budget, we proposed the creation of 3,000 new ordinary action places in addition to the Government's proposals. This would have been a positive and good measure for all those outside the labour market. The comparison between the Government Party and the Progress Party resulted in a reduction in the number of ordinary action places next year. It means that the Government got a pass on its primary proposal. This is the Labour Party little satisfied with, in view of the fact that the labour market has not become any particular better. There is too little offensive to say that one should come back to this issue in the revised national budget. The government proposed no improvements to the permit law next year. Employers who have to go to the step of permitting an added salary have to pay the periodic salary for 10 days before they are insured. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party requested that the payroll period be reduced to five days and that the cumulative leave period be extended to 42 weeks. From all over the country, we get a signal from worried employers and employees who think that a ten-day payroll period will give more redundancies and skills losses, and that in the next round it will lead to weak conditions of competition. It seemed strange that the government, at a time when labour market challenges were so great, did not give priority to this. There is little sense in overturning large costs into business at a time when many businesses are struggling with adversity. Therefore, the Labour Party is satisfied that the Progress Party in the budget agreement required a reduction in the payroll period and was able to make an impact on it. The government proposed a major cut in the 2003 state budget agenda, and got several figures for this together with the Progress Party. As a result, the performances were tightened strongly. In addition, much less is required for daily allowance. For us in the Labour Party, it is important that unemployment does not create unnecessary economic problems for those who are affected. So we went into our alternative state budget to improve the system of daily allowances. I am aware that the ministry these days has a wide review of the service provision of professionals. This review shall also address organisational and funding issues. In this context, I would like to remind the Council of the fact that a majority of the Committee decides to continue to build on current system conditions, with priority and specific approval companies as action organisers for labour market measures for people with disabilities. This means that the majority is important, not least in view of the fact that this is a good enough system to provide a flexible supply for the disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1239	This harvest has been quite similar to the harvest last year and the harvest before there again. When the state budget is presented, loud calls from the opposition and the opposition allies come out in the municipalities. Workers' party and centre party rapporteurs stand up in order, march to the Stortinget and carry out their great responsibilities. They only see cuts. The only question is whether you should use axe or axe. I never stop wondering about some people's lack of opportunity and lack of willingness to take initiatives and priorities. The United Nations has named Norway the world’s best country to live in. In the media, however, we appear to be inhabitants of an eternal valley of woe. The jam is followed up well by the opposition parties. It is almost fascinating again to hear representatives from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party comment on the conditions in today's Norway, as we have done here today. The municipalities are in the same class. After the last municipal elections, almost the whole of Telemark was socially controlled. I have therefore followed the telemark newspapers with interest and curiosity this autumn. The calls against the Government have been many, and they have been high. But there has been a similar small willingness to look at their own opportunities and solutions to the challenges they face. At Notodden, the rapporteur of the Labour Party has bowed to the partisan and has opposed a private acquisition of a nursing home that the councillor proposed to lay down. In the ski, large investments have been made, but without wanting to change the name of your own organisation. Instead, the rapporteur of the Labour Party and the majority have revalued and raised property taxes significantly – calling it popularism. It's a bad abuse of the concept of hard work, in my opinion. The right is aware that the municipal sector is struggling and that there is an imbalance in the local economy. Although the free revenues of municipalities have increased by as much as over 7 billion in 2004 and 2005, and the effect of low interest rates is positive, some municipalities have a lag behind taking back from previous years and previous governments. This can be burdensome. In addition, some municipalities have been negatively affected by changes in the income system. Some have experienced a real decline in free revenues from 2004 to 2005. We're taking this seriously. We respect that when changes are made to the income system, this varies from one municipality to another. This is one of the reasons why the Government has asked the Income System Committee to look at mechanisms that may increase predictability of municipal income, so as to facilitate the planning of conversion measures where necessary. In any case, it must be expected that the municipalities themselves are willing to look with critical eyes at their own situation, make the necessary changes and prioritize tasks. A lot of people do that, too. In the drama, for example, The rapporteur turned the trend from being negative to being positive. Oslo has the will to change and then acts. Societies are constantly changing, and adjustments are always necessary. In one area, we have many examples: the concept of ‘multicultural Norway’ shows that population and society are changing. Future Norway will become more and more diverse and policy needs to be adapted to the challenges posed by increased immigration. The Minister of Local Affairs has made a formidable effort in the field of immigration. Much has happened here in the years Right, Christian People's Party and Left have been in government. The asylum institute has been reviewed and significantly improved. A number of measures have been taken successfully to reduce the number of unjustified asylum applications. The pressure on the proceedings is less, and the processing time is shorter. The frequency of residence has increased. Means are provided for the establishment of reception facilities to provide better and closer follow-up to persons with special needs. However, there is still a lot of work to be done in these areas. That's the work we'll work on continuously. For the Right, it is important to underline the importance of an active integration policy, where housing, language training, social knowledge, work training and education are essential elements. Mandatory introduction programmes and Norwegian training rights and obligations are two important measures. We have established economic conditions for the municipalities. I see that time is running out. In conclusion, I just want to say that in the Right, we are joining the UN High Commissioner for Refugees' priority in resolving the problems of the world's refugees. The most important thing must be to get a return to the country of origin, then an integration into the first country of asylum, and the third option is to settle in another country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1262	These days important political debates are taking place in our municipalities. The budget for the next year is to be treated. Messages from over-the-counter countries are not likely to be wrong: welfare services need to be built down. There is a special offer for the pupils in the base school and for the elderly who need care. The main reason for this is that the municipalities are getting too little resources to solve their problems. The frame supplement from the state is far too low. Everyone in the UK and in the government knows, if they want to learn about the landscape, that there is a lack of money in the municipalities. Unfortunately, the fact is that there is no match between the tasks to be undertaken by municipalities and the means at their disposal to carry out municipal actions. The imbalance is set at $5.5 billion. A quarter of the municipalities and counties are subject to state supervision. Never before in history has that number been so high. It tells a lot about the economic situation. The deficit in the municipal sector has developed very unfavourable in recent years. At the end of 2003, the deficit before loan transactions was DKK 13.1 billion. It has never before been such a deficit in the municipal sector in our country. The Labour Party has proposed the development of a plan to correct the financial imbalances in municipalities. It's a central demand from the Central Federation of Municipalities. On the other hand, the Solberg Government Council has clearly rejected this work, and it has been joined by the Government Party and the Advance Party. After such a plan has been developed, the Storting should allow over a few years of permission enough to eliminate the imbalances in the economy. The representative of Stortingsretten Apelthun Sæle arranged for such a plan to be developed in the Official Journal of Bergen on 5 October. She said, ‘I challenge’...’the governance to enter into a binding agreement with the Local Governments’ Central Association with a view to eliminating this under-coverage.’ [[KS]] This appointment was no longer applicable to the budgetary procedure of the Municipal Committee. In this setting, the Government Party and the Party for Progress have some of them rejected the proposal for drawing up the plan. The Labour Party is committed to increasing funding for the local government sector next year by SEK 4.1 billion in addition to the government proposal. Of these, DKK 3.5 billion is to be increased in the free income. This proposal represents a different policy direction from that of the Government. The largest effort in the Workers' Party's alternative budget is made on welfare measures in municipalities, to strengthen training for children and young people and to ensure a decent care for the elderly. The agreement between the Government Party and the Advance Party provides for a growth in the free revenues of 800 million. in addition to the proposal of the Government. Right, that's an improvement. But it doesn't represent any bet, and the amount that's being cleared is insufficient to solve the many and big tasks that the municipalities are charged with. The Government proposal does not take an even higher level of expenditure for the next year due to population changes. That is clearly critical. On the other hand, it facilitates the growth of wealth for those who already have the most. The school offer is going to be poorer in 2005. Care for the elderly is less extensive than at present, and the quality of care for the elderly is weakened. Such a policy cannot defend the Labour Party. That is why we have chosen to make a strong and offensive effort to sustain and further develop our welfare supply. The government is pursuing a policy with a one-sided focus on postponing competition and privatisation. It is being held up as the most important measures to improve the effectiveness of municipalities. The Labour Party disagrees with such a policy. Change and development in municipalities is very important. This work must be done through an active involvement of those added, not in confrontation with them. We know several examples of clearly positive experiences from conversion work in which they have been heavily engaged. The result has been better services for users, better working conditions for added and lower costs for municipalities. All of this has been achieved through a public welfare service, without, for example: care services are offered. Such experiences should Solberg's state council so certainly take more interest in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1289	The Labour Party's proposal to increase revenue for the municipal sector proposes to increase the framework grant for municipalities and county municipalities by just under 1,200 million. kr. I assume that there is coherence in the draft budget of the Workers' Party, including between own proposals on different frameworks. Last Monday, the Stortinget dealt with the budget of the Education Committee, Framework Area 17. The Labour Party has proposed a cut of 525 million. NOK 2 billion of a total appropriation for independent schools. This presupposes that the Workers' Party will send the students back to public school. Then it's like public school gets 15 pst. more, and that's the cut of 525 million. kr must be covered by an increase in the amount of public school funding of more than 600 million. kr. My point with this is that of the increase that the Workers' Party is adding to the framework, they have to use more than 50 pst. to receive the students they hunt from private schools back to public schools, municipalities and county municipalities, because the savings of 525 million. kr is used away willingly within the framework area 17. I have asked myself in the Education Committee and received a reply from a Labour Party representative that she expected the representative to read the position with all the details we have in our budget for education. The representative has actually done that, and then the main point remains that of the framework increase that the Workers' Party boasts about, half is used up to receive students. If we had student-based funding, dimensioning would be a non-theme. Student-based funding is known by the student becoming a customer, and where would such funding fit better than in basic education, where the student has a right, a right to education? In public funding for such educational rights, we should not interfere, and we should not involve municipalities and municipal politicians. It is also important to remember that such a model is used. It is fully used in the financing of independent schools and is partly used in the financing of higher education, universities and higher education institutions, and is used with good results. The county councils have essentially secondary education again as a major task. However, funds allocated to the framework are made available on a number of peripheral and, in the opinion of the Progress Party, immaterial tasks. It is worrying when we know that there is a strong student growth in secondary schools in the years to come, through an increasing number of 16- to 18-year-olds. The agreement between the Progress Party and the Government Parties of the Municipal Committee increases the free income of county municipalities. At the same time, changes in the discretionary allocation have been made to ensure the strengthening of the income of the county municipalities with the strongest pupils growth. In order to meet the student growth rate in secondary school, the Government is asked to assess the impact of the measures already in the revised budget. It is good that it is part of the agreement, as long as we still have to deal with the county council, which is totally unnecessary. When I read the position of the municipal committee, I see that the Workers' Party on page 12 has not realised that the loan framework for refurbishment of school buildings has been extended, but has got it first on page 79. So it's going to be $1 billion. That is the same result that the Labour Party achieved in negotiations with the government parties last year. It must then be said to be a good result. In fact, one billion dollars is exactly half of what the Workers' Party itself has put into its alternative frame, where it was $2 billion. The progress party had 3 million in its own proposal. kr. In fact, there is a possibility that this is an area where the Workers' Party should be able to say that the result has been reasonably good. It is also the case that in the budget agreement we have a loan arrangement for church buildings. The Progress Party and the Government Parties have agreed to add 500 million. kr for the upgrading of church buildings. It also benefits the municipal sector, which is responsible for the maintenance and upgrading of church buildings. I notice that that amount is the same as the Workers' Party has added. There has to be an area where the Workers' Party can then access the solution and say that there is an excellent solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1310	Today, the majority of the Grand Duchy will adopt a budget for the municipalities which will further reduce the opportunities of a large number of municipalities to provide their citizens with the services they need. I joined the municipal policy at the elections in 1971 and was in attendance for 24 years. At the time, money was not so money in the municipalities either, but the economy was so careful that we could build up new services and welfare services that our citizens needed. Today, municipal politicians need to rebuild the welfare services that we built up at the time. This, I think, is sad, and there is no doubt that someone is hit by such a policy very unfortunately. I am thinking in particular of old and sick people who don't get sick places or adequate homework, and of the students who are hit by the cuts in the schools. Many municipalities have to drop out of cross-border schools, and some have to cut out in kindergartens, activities and transportation. Is it strange that many engaged people gradually refuse to make their time available for being municipal politicians or state politicians, when conditions are such? Is it strange that constructive and positive municipal politicians are now beginning to say no to cut more in the welfare of their citizens? I understand that it is this kind of cut in the municipalities that the municipal minister describes as the necessary efficiency and rationalisation. That must be what the Council of State thinks, because the administrations have already cut far into the leg. In the newspaper Nordlys for August 25th this year, we can read that 117 of the country's 434 municipalities are on the so-called ROBEK list, and that more people are at risk of getting there. So these are municipalities that are under control because of bad finances. In my home state of Troms, almost half of the municipalities are on this list. In a comment to this effect, on the same day, 25 August this year, the Minister of State for Local Government said to the newspaper Nordlys that this situation for Troms is due to the fact that the municipalities of the county have previously had such favourable arrangements in the income system. So I'm going to ask, why is 54 pst? by the municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane on this list, 39 pst. by the municipalities of Telemark, 30 pst. of the municipalities of Hordaland and 23 pst. by the municipalities of Akershus on the same list? These are just a few examples. This is due to one thing – a totally unacceptable underfunding of the municipalities. In Troms we have a decentralised settlement and large distances. I understand that people react when street lights have to be turned off and roads are not broken, but these are not legal tasks, and are therefore cut first. This is a section that goes most over the districts, where the street lights are the longest, and where the roads are the narrowest and the longest. I don't think the situation of the districts is what occupies this government the most. Other matters this autumn confirm this. I'm just mentioning in that context the deletion of the commuting deduction. We are now fully seeing what happens when the community weakens and the main goal is even more tax-free for those who have the most from before, and even more privatisation. Private wealth and public poverty are not what creates welfare for our citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1329	In fact, Norway is now in a better constitution than it was in 2001. Then this government took over after the Workers' Party. The working party left an increasing unemployment rate, which reached its peak in August 2003 with 96 000 registered unemployed. The growth in unemployment has now turned to decline. The forecasts of the Central Statistical Office, Aetat, Norway’s Bank and the Ministry of Finance have led to a further decline in 2005. Our policy works, it delivers the goods. There now seems to be a collective displacement from the left-hand side of this room about that. When the Workers' Party left the government offices, interest rates were extraordinarily high, with a government interest rate from Norway's Bank of 7 p.m. Furthermore, the Norwegian krona was so strong that it created problems for competitive business. It's turned around. The governance rate is now below 2 p.m., and the Norwegian krona is now more competitive than it was in 2001. This government has a policy that is good for value creation. Our policies help to facilitate new businesses and the expansion and employment of existing ones. I would particularly like to highlight the strong increase in new businesses. This government has a policy of increasing value creation and thus reducing unemployment. It helps get people out of poverty. It is with some wonder that I register the Workers' Party's rhetoric around the labour market. The solution seems to be government regulation, package of measures both for enterprises and industries and, according to the representative Klungland, state power agreements, which are simply contrary to the EEA Agreement. It is worth noting that in social-democratic Sweden, unemployment is in the midst of an increasing trend. It is despite the fact that Sweden also has economic growth, while in this country the unemployment rate is falling after a long time with social democratic policies. Housing is now significantly higher than it has been for a long time. Some 28 000 new dwellings are being started in 2004. The forecasts of the Landsforening of the Construction Industry for 2005 and 2006 are 26 000 new dwellings in progress per year. years. It's an epitome of more dwellings than the population growth and departure would expect. For young people in the start-up phase, there are in particular three things that play an important role in establishing themselves in the housing market – housing prices, equity and interest rates. Although housing prices have increased strongly from 2001 to 2004, with a peak year in 2004, the forecasts of the Land Association of Construction are a marked decrease in price growth from 2004 to 2005 and 2006. It should also be mentioned that housing prices increased significantly more rapidly between 1997 and 2001. The government has also taken a joint initiative to reduce construction costs together with the industry itself. The goal is more reasonable and good housing for the benefit of most people. Another important element is equity or arrangements that act as equity. The initial loan is a flexible and accurate scheme. The scheme helps young and disadvantaged to establish themselves in the housing market. In addition, the Husbank has been asked to give greater priority to those who do not manage themselves with just private funding, for example. young people, disadvantaged people and immigrants. The last moment is the interest rate level. Of course, it is worth mentioning once again that Norway's Bank's interest rate is now 1.75 pst. and not 7 p.m., as it was in October 2001. In housing policy, too, the Workers' Party has a rhetoric that is not in line with its own policies. In Document No: 8:141 for 2001-2002 the representatives Stoltenberg, Schjøtt-Pedersen and Øye propose a series of housing measures. The only problem is that these measures have not been followed up with money. In the party's own alternative budget, the deficit is over 1 600 million. kr per. years in relation to monitoring own-account housing policies. The working party lacks money to follow its own promises regarding the housing allowance, housing support, student housing and grants to municipalities for housing construction, to mention something. It is not credible to promote policy action plans and proposals in the United Kingdom when there is no intention to follow them up in practical policies. It seems to be a pattern that when the media's searchlight is on the matter, the Workers' Party comes with promises, but when the lights are off, the Workers' Party's interest disappears.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1355	Looking at the current year and next year in the context, the municipal sector is experiencing a historically high growth in free income. The budget agreement with the Progress Party for next year also meant that the municipal sector was compensated for less tax growth in the current year by NOK 2.2 billion. This has led many local politicians around the country to express optimism. I guess I don't reveal a big secret when I say that the Christian People's Party has been an active driver and has contributed strongly to this result. That was absolutely necessary, because many municipalities have experienced the economy as difficult. There is a broad consensus that there has been a gap between tasks and available resources. This has not happened overnight, but there is a situation that has grown up over a long time — under different governments — and is caused by, among other things. detailed and underfunded reforms, increased pension costs and costly wage and salary settlements. For the current year, price increases and wage increases are moving in the positive direction and are reducing the costs of municipalities by just over NOK 1 billion. In addition, the effect of low interest rates. The figure from the Central Statistical Office is 900 million. kr lower net interest expenditure on the local government sector from 2002 to 2003. The effect is continued into 2004 and 2005 and the level of interest rates has been further reduced compared to 2002–2003. Although there are several points of light in the municipal sector, we need to take more action. I believe that making the consultation system between the state and KS more obligating would be a proper grip. It is also in line with the Christian People's Party programme. I believe that an obligating plan to restore the imbalances in the municipal sector would contribute positively both by the fact that the municipalities themselves had to work to balance, and by the increase in free income. I will continue to fight for this both internally in my own party and against the other government parties. Participation in the labour market is the main safeguard against poverty and social inclusion. Job participation increases quality of life and self-esteem. This applies to all, including marginal groups on the labour market. That is why the Christian People's Party has chosen to give priority to people who need permanent work. The government proposed to increase the number of seats by 300. In the budget agreement with the Progress Party in the Grand Duchy, we chose to increase by a further 150 seats. We expect the Government to ensure that Aetat implements the decision in accordance with Storting's intention. I am pleased that the conditions for national minorities are on the agenda of the Cooperation Government. The issue of compensation schemes is dealt with in the Storting, fixed meeting places are established between the Government and various minority organisations, the Roman people's fund is set up, the Romany department is built at the Glomdal Museum, and money is allocated to the women's newspaper Rujian Kaiku – these are examples confirming it. The authorities clearly have a responsibility to create a society where everyone has equal opportunities and the same rights and obligations to participate in society and to use their own resources. This right of education shall not apply in particular to: It is unacceptable that many children in the minority group do not complete primary school. It is necessary for authorities to develop training provision to meet the specific needs of these children. It has been focused on the financial management of the Sameting in recent times. Let me make it quite clear: an overall committee expects the Sameting to make the appropriations available in accordance with political objectives and in line with the state's financial regulations. The Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, is required to carry out, in cooperation with the National Audit Office and the Ministry, a review of the situation with a view to improving the control system. We ask for the review to be included in the annual report for 2004. The common people's fund has not been used since it was established. In view of the fact that individual compensation schemes are now being established for co-workers suffering from educational injury, we assume that the Sameeting will use the return of the Same People's Fund to various measures that will strengthen Sami language and culture. Finally, I would like to stress, as the rapporteur for the common policy, that for several years a majority of the Committee has been committed to improving the conditions of the Southern Sami cultural centre Saemien Sijte in Snåsa. In the budget configuration, a General Committee of the Government requests that this project be prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1386	That's how the municipalities pay a certain sum into the common fund. From this fund, money is again allocated to the municipalities that have the lowest tax revenue per person. the population. Hedmark is a low-income group and is allocated funds from this single fund. However, the legislation is designed to allow the municipalities of Hedmark to reach on average only approx. 95 pst. of the national average. In 2003, only Hamar released more to the common funds than they got back. On average, therefore, the municipalities in Hedmark have 5 pst. lower tax revenue per year. is the average population in Norway. If we had a system of full cohesion, the municipalities of Hedmark would have had approx. 150 million. kr more to walk with in 2003. In fact, the envy becomes great towards the municipalities that get more, because you would like more to come to your own municipality. This is also how you started to see it in Hedmark, because if Trysil were in Finnmark, the municipality of Trysil would have had 42 million. kr more to walk with because of the North Norway grant that we have introduced and that we needed. It's a dramatic development in the local economy in Hedmark. There is a lack of budget coverage for the continuation of the 2004 operation of well over 340 million. kr. For the county this represents 32 million. kr. So the figures are based on the data collected from each municipality, starting with the budget figures. This will lead to a large cut in the provision of services and administrative resources. Municipalities use increased property taxes, emptying funds, increasing fees and shifting loan liabilities. After that, there is still a real cut need of more than 240 million. kr. These are cuts that will directly affect the population in the form of school leaving, reduced care and care, etc. If cut at 240 million. It is estimated that the job will be converted into a job interview, which means that it will be cancelled approximately. 600 posts. This is a situation that the Government and the majority of the population have not taken into account, and for which they have to take primary responsibility. In the municipalities, people live their lives. It is in the municipalities that services are provided to the inhabitants. However, lack of income means that parental pay to the SFO is increasing, cultural schools are increasing — or at worst they are being lowered. Schools are laid down, and the service provision to our elderly is reduced. The local politicians wear and tear in every crown and are despondent. Is this what is called municipal autonomy? The basics of all welfare policies have been work for everyone ever since the middle war. Even the Constitution mentions the right to work and the need for this to be done by the State. Work is not just a basis for creating values that can be distributed. Work is perceived by most as a good in itself, not only because it is a prerequisite for income and well-being for the individual and the individual's family, but it is also through work that one realizes oneself, gets community and social belonging and companionship. Through welfare policies based on work for all, we have provided that the individual is to support himself and his family. It is when the working capacity or labour market fails, that society comes up with financial compensation. But this compensation cannot provide compensation for the lost community. Unemployment or exclusion from the labour market is therefore perceived as a strong emotional and social burden. Representatives of the Christian People's Party have said in the debate today that work for everyone is the main objective. Then it's strange that a government with a prime minister of the Christian People's Party and a labour and social minister from the same party can tear itself apart by the right wave and exacerbate the possibility of getting more people to work. There is a reduction in the number of labour market measures. It's a deterioration in sick pay. Is this Christian People's Party policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1401	Many municipalities struggle to maintain the necessary services for the local population. Municipalities have come into an evil circle. The government's appropriations are too small. The municipalities are therefore forced to sell natural resources and key businesses. Many private companies are sold out. This undermines the very foundations for settlement in many districts. It is difficult to live in municipalities that lack a nutritional basis. When the nutrient supply fails in the districts, housing will stop and housing prices will collapse. Many people who are forced to move have little left for their homes. With increasing migration to cities, housing prices will also increase there. Then it'll be hard for people to establish themselves there. Yesterday it was decided that Finnmark would receive some money. That's very good. It should only have applied to the whole action zone, because there are many companies that are struggling there as well. When this government gives away natural resources, the natural resources are sold to those who can afford to pay. When the workplaces go away, there's no reason to live there either, because you don't have anything to do. In this room it has been decided that it should be. Without having good and well-functioning districts that harvest natural resources, we don't get good cities. But you've given away the natural resources. And who are the buyers of natural resources? Yeah, they're the ones with the most money. It's amazing to witness that natural resources are left on private hands. So it's decided here in this room that it's going to be the people's property. How can it be the people's property when a joint can be issued on the natural resources – on the fish, on the power, on the forest, on the water? Yeah, who owns the sea? In this room it is said that it is the property of the people. Yes, but it's not the people's property when there can be a shot at it and you can borrow money from it. Are you aware of that? Yes, you have to be, because I've said that many times. The deportation from the districts is huge, because people have nothing to do with it. It's the harvest of nature that's been the basis for people living there all the time. That is why the welfare of municipalities could be maintained. Here a movement of people takes place when the workplaces are gone, which is huge – without debate, it is not debated! It's amazing. When the nutrient supply fails in the districts, housing will collapse. Yes, I have said this before: we in the Coastal Party will reverse this development by ensuring that the natural resources in the districts benefit more the local population and provide the basis for employment. Then we'll have good cities. We have to be willing to buy back the natural resources that have been given away. Only in this way can this serious development be reversed. Finally, I must say that the Coastal Party is opposed to the country being sold piece by piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1416	It was good you got it too. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1421	I just take the floor to stress the importance of the majority of the committee asking for an economic boost to be taken for the Groruddalen when the initiative on Oslo's inner east phase takes place. This is about the quality of life of all those living in the densely populated valley in Norway, those who have been lost in the development of state infrastructure northwards from the capital, whether there is roaring traffic on the E6 or increased transit and crossing to and from Gardermoen. The Groruddalen is one of the most important areas of activity for the Municipality of Oslo in the coming years. From 2007 onwards, the State and the Municipality of Oslo will launch a large-scale investment in the valley as a pattern from what was in its time done with the Oslo inner east. This means, among other things: that the Municipality of Oslo must already start close cooperation with State authorities in order to develop objectives, plans and work distribution, so that the parties are prepared and co-ordinated when work starts in 2007. The state continues to contribute 50 million. kr per year – in addition to funds from the Municipality of Oslo. The Groruddalen shall be made an environmental zone, addressing the environmental challenges related to transport, the development of green areas, housing and industrial development. And in terms of business development and Oslo as an innovation centre, it can, for example, be appropriate to consider the Groruddalen as an area for the re-establishment of the Oslo University Centre. There is a broad consensus on such a development of the Groruddalen – yes, it is indeed unanimous across the board. So it's a little strange that there's only a majority in the committee who have made such a comment, and that it's not unanimous in the committee as well. This shall be done with State grants. For it is the sins of the great state institutions that we clean up after — in Norway’s densely populated valleys. The Workers' Party and the SV now believe that, in addition to the plan presented, large sections of E6 should be covered between Alnabru and Karihaugen, which will reduce pollution and noise for many of the inhabitants of Groruddalen. This will also represent an enormous opportunity for further development of the Groruddalen: new businesses, cultural institutions, the construction of sports arenas and – not least – better access to the Alnapark. I also expect – and that is also a hint to the Council of State – that the plans for investment on the Groruddalen will lie in the forthcoming big business announcement about the Capital Region.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1436	Unfortunately, we have over 100 000 unemployed in our country. This is human beings who are completely unemployed, and it is human beings who are on the move. That's way too high a number. In 2003, the Government Party and the Advance Party saw to it that they cut the daily allowance for the unemployed. This voted against both the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV. The working party will not settle down on this. Many parties have an impressive alternative budget, where they move in billions of dollars. I hope that several parties will meet the Workers' Party and others at the next crossroads to correct the unworthy cuts in the daily money. I am pleased that the Council of State High Council in its reply confirmed to me that he does not represent a per-acid self-regulating labour market, and I will give him a chance to prove this at a later date. One might be amazed at the Progress Party. What I heard today from the representative Torbjørn Andersen cannot be said to be undisputed. It's not always as easy to know what to think about the Progress Party's policy. The lot changes its meaning and position continuously: In the past, the Progress Party was strong against state ownership. Now they're for. In the past, the party was in principle opposed to all public support for kindergartens. Now the party is all of a sudden for state aid to all kindergartens. Before, the Progress Party was against the SFO, they were for a while, and now I actually believe that the Progress Party is against that. But I'm not quite sure. Before that, the Progress Party was to cut the transfers to the municipalities. Now they are to increase them, yes, they even boast of the budgetary agreements they have obtained. Of course, the Labour Party is pleased, although we believe that there is too little in the transfers to the local government sector in the budget agreement. There is now one year left for the election, and if one were to take stock of the party's policy for the last three years, some parties might have problems with their promises. There is good reason to remind the Christian People's Party and the representative Apelthun Seele of what they went to vote on in 2001. The Christian People's Party would then be the guarantor that tax havens should not go beyond the school bet. So I'm not going to draw up that the debate on the local economy, it would be well known to everyone now. But it's enough to remember the difficult economic situation in the municipal sector and all the spokesmen and local government around the country who are struggling to balance the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1464	In his intervention, the Minister of State came up with some points of view that make some comments necessary. Firstly, the Workers' Party has not proposed the refinancing of the fishing industry. Due to the reluctance of the financial industry as a result of the industrial fluctuations, we proposed an operational credit guarantee scheme. The government first opposed this, but gave an opening to the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. The Council of State also gives the impression that the main problem is that there are no longer deliveries from Russian trawlers. This isn't right. The main problem is that 19 trawlers are obliged to deliver raw material in Finnmark, and according to the last review, only four delivered everything, four delivered nothing at all, eleven delivered a part. That equals just 51 pst. of the raw material that should have been delivered, it was actually delivered. Here it's a significant follow-up point. The main challenge, therefore, in order to re-launch the facilities, is that the Minister for Fisheries must ensure that investors are assured that these fish are delivered. It is a competence which lies entirely within the Ministry of Fisheries. That is why the Minister for Fisheries must solve this important part of the cabal. I also noticed that the Council of State gives the impression that the county council has almost been inactive pending her letter. In its reply, the rapporteur refers to a number of initiatives taken. If there is now a constructive cooperation between the department and the county municipality, it is very good. Local, regional and state authorities must come together constructively. Otherwise, there's a cross of thought for all of us that after the bankruptcy in Vardø started, 66 million have been paid out. In the case of unemployment benefits, it has taken two and a half years to agree on at least some of the necessary measures. So to the Minister of Labour: it is good that this and the previous government have come together about the desire to carry out new government tasks. The Labour Party asks the Minister of Labour to consider outsourcing new functions. In the reply to the Minister of Labour’s comments, there was also a very interesting exchange of words. I record that the Council of State is taking a distance from the principle of self-regulatory work. It also does the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. But this was, of course, a key point in Norman's report on employment. I am pleased with the clarification given by this Council of States. It gives hope of greater consensus in future matters than it has been in the past. I also noticed that Peter Skovholt Gitmark spoke as if the level of unemployment was now at a low level. I must remember carefully that the level was 60 000 when this government took over and that there have been over 100 000 unemployed during this government. Finally, to the Left, which still refers to the high exchange rate while I was Minister of Finance. I must be allowed to remind you that the high exchange rate was actually after this government took over – that's the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1481	This is an important debate, and this is an important budget. But the president can't help but remember what he informed about when the meeting started today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1484	I ask for the floor to put forward proposal No. 32, which is taken up by this. Then I feel the need to comment on something that is reflected in the budget proposal, which the Committee has not supported, namely that the Council of State Højbräten has asked the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice for a reassessment of its responsibilities on the base of the first few years. So the law department's assessment is an orientation in the budget, and it's a matter that the committee has chosen not to address. From my point of view, I see it this way, and it's enough for others in the committee, that there's one thing that's going to be raised in another context, so I find reason to stress that there's no reason to assume that the committee is not following up, as an acceptance of what it says. So I'll just fill in two areas. One is that of labour in and outside Norway. There is always a challenge on the one hand to be to soften the specialist rules, which the Center Party is, and also to allow some of those who are refused abstinence on a humanitarian basis to apply for work from Norway, and on the other hand to deal with the current unrest in relation to social dumping. We are pleased that the Department has provided several resources for the Labour Inspectorate. We know they've asked for even more. We also believe that the Petroleum Control should have more resources, and suggest it, based on a situation where an elderly person who is being out of work has a disability, where a person has a lot of unemployment among immigrants, and where even now he may be at risk of not having the possibility of getting enough apprenticeships. It is then important that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs follow closely the bodies responsible for monitoring employment and pay. Finally, to the Minister for Municipal Affairs, a letter from, for example, has been sent in connection with the integration grant that is now being removed. Women's council, where they make it very clear that it will make it difficult for people to build, both at home and in several other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1495	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1498	This will only be a short post. I was provoked by the representative Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. You have to hear a lot before the ears fall off, but today I have actually felt a real need for my ears to fall off – because now the few can hear more doses of complaint from the Socialist comrades Workers' Party, the Senter Party and SV. I don't think I've actually heard a single positive statement from any of these parties today. And one place there is a pain limit for how much you, even as a staging representative, can absorb and orc to listen to by excessive sewing, black paint and complaint from the left side of Norwegian politics. One should almost prescribe a large dose of both Christmas beer and akevitt in order to be able at all to hear this complaint that we have witnessed today from the socialist parties. Everything, absolutely everything, seems to be ripping at the planet on which the Workers' Party is located – because they have to be on a different planet than what the rest of us are doing. It is now produced as if Norway is perhaps one of the world’s worst countries to live in, we are the poorest country — unlike what the Stoltenberg government boasted three to four years ago, that we were the world’s best country to live in. And my question in the main post was, what in the world is what has happened in these three or four years? It's obvious that the country has become much better to live in. We have received lower taxes and taxes, people have had more to walk with, interest rates have fallen – a lot of positive has happened since then. Nevertheless, the Socialist parties, with the Workers' Party, are able to blackmail the actual reality of Norwegian society today. I have to say it provokes me. And I would encourage the Workers' Party to put itself on a somewhat more sober rhetoric when they're going to describe the state of things in Norwegian society. It is difficult for me to see that there is some particular realism in the production of the Workers' Party, that Norwegian society has been so dramatically exacerbated by the policies of the Government and the Advance Party in the last three to four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1509	The President is a relatively liberal man, but serving aquevit in the main hall does not come up for a speech! So we'll probably have to make it without it. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1210]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1526	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Labour Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1535	In 1999, Stortinget decided that the corporation tax should be made state-owned. In this way, the funds from this tax were allocated to individual municipalities according to the distribution principle as liabilities for the income bias of the local government sector. In the Bondevik II government statement, it was stated that one would return some of the corporate tax to the municipalities. In St. prp. No 64 for 2003-2004 the Government makes proposals accordingly. The government also proposed to reform the income equalisation scheme. The majority in Stortinget – the Government Party and the Advance Party – mainly joined the government proposal. The same majority asked for the disposal of alternative models for the return of corporation tax. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party rejected the proposal. The government has carried out the distribution work requested by the majority in Stortinget. In the message we are now debating, three models have been considered in addition to the option recommended by the Government in the 2005 Municipal Proposition. For three of the models in common, they claim a company tax of DKK 5.5 billion. One of the models is based on a return of NOK 3 billion to corporate tax. On the other hand, there is some variation between models when it comes to traction and compensation. In most cases, basic features and compensation of 55 pst are added. and an additional compensation of 35 pst. One of the models has 5 pst. higher moves and compensation and 5 pst. lower additional compensation. In the distribution, one of the options is based on the fact that municipal income from corporate taxes is not compensated. The other models have a symmetrical income blending as the basis. The government states that the purpose of the conversion is to strengthen the incentives for local economic development without increasing the differences in income between municipalities than they can manage these changes from one year to the next. In June this year, the government party and the Progress Party asked that several models be distributed. The government has in St. Announcement. No 5 concluded in the same way as in the municipality’s 2005 proposal. The Government Party and the Progress Party join the Government's recommendation, while the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party reject it. For the Labour Party, it is very important that municipalities have a stable economy. A large part of the welfare is created in municipalities and municipalities. If their income varies considerably from one year to the next, it will have negative consequences for the volume and quality of supply of children, young people and the elderly. Such a policy will affect users of municipal services. The Government's proposal means that the income of municipalities will be less stable than that of the current system. Furthermore, the proposed scheme seems to complicate the economic governance of the municipal sector. It is a fact that corporate taxes are clearly more unevenly distributed than personal taxes. The Government's proposal on the return of corporation tax will increase the differences between municipalities. This in turn has a very unfortunate consequence: the difference in service levels between municipalities will increase. The Labour Party cannot accept such a policy. The government makes a large number that the new scheme will inspire local business development without any particular impact on income differences between municipalities. The working party disagrees with that assessment. It is also claimed that municipalities with below average income will focus on the government proposal. The Labour Party is also inconsistent with that claim. I note that many municipalities that have low tax revenues will suffer significant losses because of the government proposal. The municipality of Skien, for example, has a tax income of 91.8 pst. of the national average. The municipality will lose 10.3 million. kr next year on the scheme from the Government. Fredrikstad municipality has even lower tax bases. The economic loss that will be 12.2 million. kr in 2005. Flora municipality is another example. The loss of revenue will be 2.3 million. kr next year. It is for a municipality that also fights with great difficulties in the labour market. So there's a bunch of examples of untimely results of the new order that's being proposed. The redistribution which the majority in this Chamber will adopt later today is significant and unacceptable. Many municipalities that initially have too little funding for their welfare measures will receive even less next year. It is therefore understandable that the populist country protests against the government’s proposal. They do it on behalf of many users who are affected by the deterioration of municipal services. The current income system for the local government sector contains a type of income equalisation. The Government proposal will provide a new type of income compensation for municipalities. Unfortunately, it is a fact that this will significantly complicate the income system. It's obvious that the government thinks that the new arrangement she's proposing is not good enough. The message argues that it is possible to provide discretionary means to municipalities that suffer significant losses in the return of corporate tax. At the same time as the new system is being introduced, repair measures need to be implemented. This doesn't create trust. The new element of the municipal income system is so poor that, from the very beginning, a system must be established that compensates for the most immeasurable effects. It is also part of the story that the bets are to be reduced. In this way, there will be even less funds for the repair measures that the Government realizes are necessary. The Labour Party believes that the issue of returning company taxes to municipalities must be seen in conjunction with the whole system of funding for the municipal sector. Regrettably, the Solberg Council rejects it. We now have a unique chance of seeing the context that I'm looking for. The income system selection is in progress. It would be very relevant to give this selection a task to evaluate this matter. In this way, an overall assessment of the income system would be obtained. It would be possible to have different tools sketched out to get a fair distribution. Justice in turn creates legitimacy. It's at least the Labour Party's busy off. The Labour Party also emphasises that the matter must be settled in a wider perspective than the Government has wanted. A broad assessment of the case would make it possible to assess the use of other instruments, instruments that can more than tax justify cooperation between municipalities on business policy. It is striking that the Government Party and the Advance Party are not willing to do so. The majority in Stortinget rejects the desire of a large majority of the populace around the municipalities for a broad, principled discussion of the matter. There must certainly be thought for many of our municipal politicians. The aim of such a policy must be to block a fairer distribution of funds that compensate for differences in the welfare provision of municipalities. I have registered that several spokesmen from municipalities as purely economically opposed to the proposal by the Government, reject it. They understand that unstable income is a problem for those responsible for local government. These spokesmen think that a universally accepted and fair system creates understanding and respect around our country. Clearly, the Solberg Council of State is in a hurry to adopt the new arrangement with the reversal of corporation tax and the reversal of the anti-balancing of income. In this case, too, the Council of State has chosen to work against dominant municipal interests. The party of progress did not like the distribution effects of the proposal presented by the Government in the municipal proposition in May of this year. Therefore, they asked for alternative models. They got it. But when the conclusion was to be drawn, the Progress Party failed. The government passed through its vision. The Labour Party is opposed to the Government's proposal because it creates untimely distributional effects, and because the differences in service provision between municipalities will be even greater with the Government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1589	I fully support the Government's proposal to bring back parts of the corporate tax to the municipalities from the financial year 2005. From the Right, it is both right and important to stress that the aim of this conversion is to strengthen the local authorities’ incentives to drive economic development, thus allowing them to ensure even more extensive nutritional establishment at local level. Such a view is also supported by the Municipal Councils' Central Association, which, at the hearing of the Municipal Committee, made it clear that they are in principle in favour of the return of corporate taxes through the tax fund model in order to create incentives for economic development. Similar views have also come from a number of municipalities which actually represent a majority of the population of the country. I have a lot of my political assignment and learning from a municipality that knew the value of corporate tax to stimulate local business development. Both the municipality and individual enterprises had a strong and mutual interest in the best possible local conditions for good and profitable industrial development. It stimulated a dynamic business life, while at the same time focusing local politicians on the conditions that local politicians themselves could influence and that created the best possible climate for local businesses. The feeling that part of local value creation was also local was important and very positive both for businesses and for local authorities. It was agreed to develop the community. It was profitable to invest in facilitating the establishment of local and profitable businesses. It meant new jobs and money in the box. I fully agree with the Government's assessment that it is Model 1 that, overall, best performs both the incentives and the redistribution effects. The model significantly strengthens the incentive effect of local business development, without affecting income differences between municipalities to a greater extent than allowing municipalities to manage these changes from one year to the next. I agree that the other models will either weaken the incentive effect or increase the redistribution of income in line with the Government's proposals. This has been a long fight to fix a previous mistake. I am therefore very pleased that we are today reversing what happened when the corporate tax was taxed in 1999. One point in this context is that there was also no transitional arrangement at that time. It was brutal enough for us who were responsible in the municipalities that lost the most on the conversion. It was very little sympathy to pick up from those who made a lot of money on the conversion and redistribution. But what happened at the same time was far more serious. The focus on industrial development was weakened in many municipalities for the benefit of clean housing focus. Now most of the time, municipal planning was about getting more people. It was only what increased the municipalities' own income. At the same time, all of us who sit here know that more people are also increasing the cost. On the other hand, industrial development had become only a cost item in some municipalities, perhaps especially in the growth municipalities. The development of a number of municipalities in the country tells of this, as the debate on, for example, development agreements clearly illustrate. As I said, I am very pleased that we can today address the issue of the return of a share of company tax to the municipalities. It is on this basis that the parties Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against the proposals of the majority of the Committee for decisions under I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1604	Like the previous speaker, the Progress Party is also pleased that parts of the corporate tax are now being brought back to the municipal sector, but we may not be as satisfied as the previous speaker speaks with the model choice. We would probably have liked to have chosen a model that would have given more incentives for feeding, as the government itself points out in the message. The complexity of today's income system for the municipal sector is such that it is almost impossible to take greater action without having a significant impact on some municipalities. That is why the Progress Party has said that we support the Government's model No. 1st@item: inlistbox It is of course because it has been an important matter for us. In a number of contexts, we have put forward our own proposals to bring back some of the corporate tax. But when it is said that the majority in the hall today use as an argument to bring back the corporate tax that it is to create incentives and hopes that municipalities are more likely to facilitate the development of businesses. However, in order for municipalities to achieve this to a greater extent, it is also important that the same majority look at the other framework conditions of the local government sector, which are linked to the possibility of active economic activity. I am thinking, not least, of the recent years of the bonding of natural resources by means of conservation, protection, reserves, etc., which has actually put a lot of opportunities to die instead of the fact that the municipalities, by facilitating business, could have obtained very large incomes and become more dependent on this house's decision on the framework and conditions. As I said earlier today, between 80 pst. and 90 pst. of the revenue received by the municipalities today, a decision is taken here in the house. It is often said that much of this is free income and that the municipal sector is free to assess their use. But when laws, regulations and framework conditions otherwise tighten that possibility, it has almost no meaning for the municipalities. In order to cut the debate today by another two minutes, I conclude here and say that the Progress Party is pleased that there is a majority in favour of returning parts of the corporate tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1615	I get first to say that this matter is not actually about returning anything. This is a matter of taking 5.5 billion from all the municipalities first, and then giving them back to 80 municipalities – and it is to the 80 municipalities that have the most solid business life ever. So this concept, that it's a ‘return’ of corporate tax, is wrong, and there's a need to get it out. For SV, it is important to look at the income system of the municipal sector, which finances some of the most important welfare services we have in the country, to look at it as a whole. For this purpose, it is both about income equalisation and about expenditure equalisation. There have been relatively large changes in recent years. It has changed the income base of many municipalities — some have lost, and some have won, as it always is. Then it is a little strange to hear the representative Sandberg from the Progress Party, who is amazed that it is not possible to do much without having consequences. Yes, it reminds me of some suggestions I have seen in the local government that I have been sitting in, saying: Please save 10 million. NOK, but don't let it go out on anyone. Clearly, taking great action will have great consequences. For example, when you have: Take 5.5 billion from all the municipalities and then give them to 80, it seems to have a huge impact on the local economy. SV is very critical of this proposal. It's good right-wing policy, seafaring, that the one who makes a lot of money should keep more sail. There's nothing surprising about it. But the claim that municipalities that already have a weak industrial policy are going to get better by getting a cut of millions is a little difficult for me, and for SV, to understand. When we also hear the Right-Representative Hogsnes say that at the moment that the corporate tax disappeared in the municipality of Tønsberg, they stopped thinking about business development, I think I say more about the Right than about the municipality sector in general. Because it has to be that when you drive a municipality, you have to be interested in something more than just what makes it drop several kroner in your pockets. The fact that they are not immediately involved in industrial policy seems to me to be completely incomprehensible. At least that's not SV's policy. Having both housing, business and jobs in a municipality is a good thing. The local politicians who don't understand it, I expect to be informed of it from their voters. The income system for the municipal sector has changed in recent years — it has become more vulnerable and more unstable. This change makes it even more unstable. This is because the tax share is now increasing — as income in the local government sector is becoming more unstable for economic activity, making them much more uncertain compared to larger tax havens. If you become more dependent on corporate tax, representatives from the Government and the Advance Party have also said that it gives you greater uncertainty. The estimates made of tax revenue in recent years are relatively far from internal affairs. So here's a lot of uncertainty. SV has signaled that we are for a fairer income equalization than what we have today. It is a reality that some municipalities have very large incomes, and different comparisons between municipalities can be made which show that this gives unreasonable results. We have said that we want an approach to a more symmetric income equalization system. But the package that the Government has presented now is impossible for us to buy. It's also impossible for us to make such big changes without looking at the whole thing. A sample has now been reduced to look at the income system. The mandate of this sample tells me that SV might not have that much to pick up, but at least it is a sample responsible for looking at the whole. Here, SV wants a sharper and fairer matching of the costs and a sharper and fairer matching of the revenues. We believe that municipalities should have a more equal opportunity to provide their citizens with good welfare — and be good communities for housing and business. But we want to see this in whole. I also have to repeat what SV has written in many settings: we believe and believe that it is difficult to get an income system that is equally good for all municipalities, perhaps especially for the capital. We believe that there is a need for a separate capital grant in order to carry out the tasks that Oslo has.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1630	My claim is that economic development has far too little place in the political debate. Attention is focused mainly on distributing the goods. Knowing that the capacity for innovation is essential for maintaining viable communities and good welfare services around the country, it is a clear signal that we need to shift focus. Without value creation, there will be no welfare. Stable jobs are, for example, the main response to poverty and social exclusion for the individual. Similarly, it is a prerequisite for maintaining the welfare state – or, for that matter, the welfare municipality – that values are created here in the country. We need to secure more legs to stand on in the future than just the oil leg. Recent attention has been paid to communities with high unemployment as a result of the bankruptcy or cut-off of corner stone holdings. Other communities report weak international competitiveness, in particular in the fishing industry. High production costs and wages that are high above low-cost countries such as China and Poland make it impossible to compete on price. Norway will never become a low-cost country. That's why we have to think alternately, for example. by developing quality top-notch competence. This is how we will be able to ensure a lot of good, stable and forward-looking jobs. And today's youth both can and will. But they depend on the public building up of entrepreneurs and facilitating innovation and re-establishment. In line with the vision of KS, the Kommune-Norges organisation, today in Stortinget we make an important decision that will contribute to it. From 2005 onwards, municipalities will be able to recover a share of the corporation tax. The target is precisely to create incentives to drive industrial development and thus ensure local nutritional establishment. The Christian People's Party has been very concerned to ensure that small and tax-weak municipalities are protected during this conversion. We believe that this consideration has been taken into account by the Government's proposal in the following circumstances: In parallel with the reversal, it is stated that municipal income from corporation tax is included in a system of tax equalisation. It is done by converting to symmetric income smoothing. If we see the reversal in the context of the increase in the free income of the municipal sector for next year, we believe that the overall conversion takes into account both the incentive effects and the redistribution effects of most municipalities. But we are aware that there are municipalities that come out poorly, among other things. because they have weak tax access. For the Christian People's Party, it is therefore important to stress that municipalities with great losses need to be assessed in the discretionary award process. As politicians, we have a lot to do when it comes to thinking completely and seeing things in context. Unfortunately, many have experienced obstacles and heavy bureaucracy when new ideas are to be launched. Bureaucratic spells must not stop dawning creativity! When the aim is now to provide motivation for economic development locally, work on legislative simplification and forms also have to continue to work with the centrality. It is closely related to value creation and re-establishment. An even simpler Norway must be the goal! I cannot help but comment – from the past today and in earlier debates – on the unwillingness of the Central Party and the Labour Party to increase the income of the municipal sector through value creation and industrial development. Providing incentives for the local government sector itself to increase its income seems uninteresting. It is in stark contrast to words about municipal freedom of action and local self-government. And it is not least alarming to note when the opposition is constantly talking about – in large letters – the economic situation of the local government sector and the need for innovation and industrial development. Does the opposition have only one response to these challenges, namely increased state transfers? Unlike the opposition, the Christian People's Party manages to have multiple thoughts in its head at the same time. We believe that more action needs to be taken to strengthen local freedom of action and to invest in a locally adapted business. The return of corporation tax is an important measure in this way. In contrast to the previous model, the model introduced today has solved the problem of group taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1661	It's a good thing for the government to present the proposal that we have to deal with today, as a return of funds to the municipalities. The proposal represents a redistribution. The proposal involves more corporate tax and less personal tax revenue. So the funds are returned to the municipalities on the second distribution principle. The real redistribution between municipalities – that is, the government itself – is 800 million. kr in 2005. Of these, 420 is going to go into it. kr to Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger and Kristiansand. The central party believes in principle that municipalities should have greater control than today over their own tax revenue. However, we cannot accept a scheme that is completely redistributive from the 350 municipalities that lose out on the scheme to the 80 or so municipalities that are interested in this proposal. The government's plan does not allow municipalities to raise their income, and the financial differences between municipalities are increasing. The centre party's starting point is that the income system should operate primarily in such a way that all municipalities have the same ability to provide municipal services. This is not the case in this proposal. Thus, the proposal comes in addition to a number of changes in the income system that have already been introduced, changes that have caused extensive redistribution effects between municipalities. This applies, for example: the resolution of exceptional judgement, the introduction of the urbanity criterion, the higher tax rate and the down-adjustment of the framework transfers. There can be no doubt that the sum of these changes in the income system puts a very strong pressure on the economy in many municipalities. The changes currently proposed by the Government in corporate taxes and income moderation will reinforce the effects of uneven economic structure and pay differentials between parts of the country. So if we look at the government's own tables, it's five municipalities, from the South Tronde Team and northwards, that go in plus 2005. In Rogaland 21 out of 27 municipalities lose income. So this model was rejected by 3/4 of the municipalities in the previous round. In our refusal, the Progress Party initially rejected the model, they asked for other models, but they accepted the issue today. It is not as it is now claimed from both the Progress Party and from the Christian People's Party that KS is pleased with the decision that seems to have multiples today. It's the opposite. In the hearing of the committee there were clear points in the KS in relation to things that should be further elaborated. It seemed to me that the Christian People's Party is speaking against better knowledge, or they have been persuaded – the effects of this proposal cannot be discovered by their spokesmen. The Christian People's Party is on a decision today, even though the spokespersons of their own party have given clear advice on waiting. An income system selection has been reduced. What would be better than that this income system selection looked at both the model that gets more today, and at any other models – and saw them in conjunction with the total income and expenditure compensation system for municipalities? There must be only one reason why it is important to go through this matter now, and that is that the government proposal seems to have multiples. If this had been done better, I actually don't think it would have had a chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1684	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1219]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1699	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1219]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1714	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that up to five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1721	In Document No: 8:92 for 2003-2004 it is proposed that the Government should ‘estimate to extend the quota by up to 87 transfer refugees in order to receive the Vietnamese boat refugees in the Philippines with close relatives in Norway’. The proposers assume that the number of quota refugees will be increased so that any solution will not be at the expense of the existing quota. All lots, except for the Right, are behind the proposal. I will start by making a brief presentation of the proposal. In 1979, Norway was one of the signature countries in the Geneva Conference to settle Vietnamese boat refugees after the Vietnam War. Under 2 000 Vietnamese from the former group of refugees continue to live in the Philippines. They are not considered to be real refugees and they do not have the right to asylum under international rules. Most are considered stateless, but Norwegian authorities assume that they will be accepted as Vietnamese on return to their country of origin. The proposers claim that 87 of these have families in Norway, but not so close to the family that they come under the family reunification code. The Committee’s proceedings have resulted in the Right and Workers’ Party refusing to accept the group of Vietnamese boat refugees, while the Progress Party, SV, the Christian People’s Party and the Center Party ‘bere Regeningen, by the end of April 2005, propose a time-limited special law allowing for residence in Norway’. It is assumed that the Vietnamese boat refugees are taken within the quota for transfer refugees. This is an emotional matter, which gives rise to strong involvement with the proposers as well as others involved. Nevertheless, it must be pointed out that the discussion has at times been based on some incorrect factual evidence. The Government, in its reply to the proposers, has rejected the need for protection or resettlement in third countries for the remaining Vietnamese. This is confirmed by the Manila Embassy and by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. The Vietnamese have the opportunity to return to Vietnam without risking any kind of persecution. The right will highlight the importance of maintaining the practice of staying for those who need it the most, and of non-discrimination between people seeking residence. These are principles that should be strong. In this case, the majority violates this, even though they know that there are several examples of groups living in exile under similar or worse conditions around the world. It's a fact that we can't help anyone who needs protection. It is therefore very important to have clear lines when making the difficult priorities. The right does not say that the group referred to here will not get even better in Norway than in the Philippines, but it does not make it more right to force people who need more to find a safe port in this country. Right-wing wants an asylum and immigration policy based on clear guidelines, where tough priorities are taken on the basis of who needs the most protection, and not on the basis of who calls for the highest. The right is against the vote and recommends that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1744	The matter that we are now dealing with is not an easy matter. It has not been a matter of urgency either. For three years it has been worked on, and it ended up familiar with a private proposal to ask the Government to consider granting a residence permit to the 87 Vietnamese boat refugees in the Philippines who have close relatives in Norway. I was one of the proposers. When the proposal was promoted the last day before the summer holiday, there was little media interest in the matter. But this week the matter has received a lot of attention, and it's not particularly strange, because it's special. The proposal also provided a prerequisite for an extension of the quota, so that this group would not crowd out other refugees whom we welcome through the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR. The Labour Party has always disagreed with the Government that the quota of refugees we accept, which for many years was 1500, was halved to 750 in 2002. These are the poorest refugees in the world, the most needy, the most needy to have a new country and a new future. The government has subsequently entered into an extension of the quota from 750 to 1000 persons. That means that when these 87 Vietnamese are going to get under this quota, which is still too low in the Workers' Party's opinion, it's going to be at the expense of someone else who can't come. That is one of the reasons why the Workers' Party has voted against. It is quite common to ask the Council of State for an opinion when a private proposal is made. It was done this time as well. The answer from the Council of State, dated 18 October, was negative: The remaining Vietnamese do not need protection. The Vietnamese now have the opportunity to return to Vietnam. They have the right to stay, education, work and activities in the Philippines. The working party has extensive experience of being in government. The Council of State informs the Storting of this should be correct. Therefore, the Workers' Party believed that the letter had to be emphasized. Furthermore, the Council of State considered that if the Stortinget came to the Vietnamese, a special law had to be made. Now a majority wants to create a special law to be used once for a particular group. That is what the Workers' Party believes is unfortunate. We believe that the main lines of Norwegian asylum and immigration policy should continue to be followed. It makes it difficult to go in for a special law for someone. This could create uncertainty about the main lines of Norwegian asylum and immigration policy. It may violate previous practice of providing protection to those who need it the most, and it may violate the principle of non-discrimination for those who want to stay in Norway. Nor is Norway lucky to make a selection on its own. Our policy has been to select people in cooperation with the High Commissioner for Refugees. The Labour Party has taken account of the information submitted by the Minister of Local Councillor Erna Solberg to the Stortinget, who notes that this is a group which is neither considered to be refugees by the High Commissioner for Refugees nor meets the normal requirements for seeking or having resided in Norway, either as asylum seekers or as family reunions. The remaining Vietnamese do not need protection or resettlement in third countries. On this basis, we have therefore not found it right that these should be prioritised in front of other exiled persons under similar or more difficult conditions. I take up the proposal from the Right and the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1780	The representative Signe Eye has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1783	I will not spend my time commenting on the Right and the Workers' Party's reverse operation in this matter. I don't think I'm going to go into sorting out the facts in all the claims that have been made in the matter. But I have received an e-mail from Amnesty International no longer than a week ago, and in this case I choose to deal with it as well. The Labour Party and the Right have previously given particular attention to the opinions of this international organisation. They don't do that in this context. At least it is established that these people are to be considered refugees. We'd like to discuss whether they're approved by the UN High Commissioner, but in this case, the Progress Party chooses to look at these people, who have lived in the Philippines for decades without rights like stateless, as much as many of the other 40 to 50 million refugees registered today. The progress party did not participate in this in the start-up phase of the case – and we do not hide that either. Then, as the representative Eye correctly said, it was a wish for the quota to be extended. The Progress Party would not be in it. As the matter has changed, there is now a majority to accept these within the agreed quota of 1000 refugees next year. The Progress Party honestly believes that it is absolutely right for the Norwegian authorities to go in and take responsibility for these people, for whom we have, after all, had and will have a responsibility. Then we want to measure these up to other refugees. I have recorded that the Council of State itself was in Thailand and picked out refugees to Norway, on the grounds that there is now a greater need to look at which refugees are best placed to be integrated into Norway. I agree with the Council of State on this. That's exactly what the Progress Party thinks we're doing now, when we get these Vietnamese boat refugees within the framework. It's not like these 87 refugees are overstepping anyone. If you're going to use it as an argument, it's always going to be like a Norwegian quota forcing others, as long as we have between 40 and 50 million refugees in the world. No matter who had to come to Norway, they would force others who might need it more. So I think that's a bad argument. In conclusion, I would also like to say that we have had an asylum and immigration policy here in Norway where tens of thousands of asylum seekers – tens of thousands – have stayed, not because they need asylum, but because the Labour Party and the Right have concluded that they need to stay on a humanitarian basis. People who are either smuggled in or using thousands of dollars to get to a better situation in Norway — all respect for them for it — and who turn out to be abusing the institution of asylum, but who, as the Council of State next round gives humanitarian residence, are more likely to be considered refugees than these 87 people who have lived as stateless in the Philippines. Norway was there quite early and took responsibility for being one of the signature countries, and Norway saw with open eyes that things were happening in these refugee camps at the time that were not acceptable, among others. flocks of siblings were split. This is the background for the Progress Party to support this case and that it will remain within the quota set by the Storting. In the long term, it will create better integration, and this will actually lead to fewer refugees coming to Norway in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1800	Before the summer, I, together with representatives of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left and Christian People's Party, promoted a proposal in which we asked the Government to extend the refugee quota in order to receive a group of Vietnamese boat refugees residing in the Philippines, many of them since 1989. I have to say that since the beginning, when we started working on this matter several years ago, we noticed that the Council of State was willing to accept these Vietnamese. I must also say that since then it has been difficult to obtain good and accurate documentation from the Council of State. And I still find it difficult to be absolutely sure of all the facts in this case, because part of the basis here is unclear. But it's about forming a holistic image. Based on the information available, people have formed different general images, and this has led to different people reaching different conclusions. Before we promoted the proposal, we in the municipal committee had spent well over two years collecting information, questioning us and putting ourselves into the situation of the boat refugees, and going round with the municipal minister and with the refugee organisations in Norway. The reason was that we saw that this was a very special case. But we didn't want to do anything hasty. We wanted to be thorough, so we didn't make decisions too early, and we didn't want to destroy the case by promoting it until we knew it was a majority that was in favour. I believe that there is reason to ask some questions. I am a little surprised at the position of the Workers' Party in this matter. They now justify this, inter alia: with the fact that they're against a special law. But when it comes to this with special laws, it's the way the mayor has recommended us to do it, if we want to do it absolutely. I – and SV for their part – have thought that it should be possible to accept these as transfer refugees and give them humanitarian residence under that paragraph. So with special laws, I think that's a strange argument on the part of the Workers' Party, because there's actually other ways of accepting these refugees, if you wanted to. But there are several good reasons why we ended up going in order for the refugees to come to Norway, and there is a need to review some points that make this matter special. Vietnamese boat refugees became a phenomenon in which we in Norway became particularly involved, because we had a lot of ship traffic and got hold of the refugees. Norwegian boats often met Vietnamese boat refugees in terrible bad boats. It is estimated that about half of those who fled Vietnam died in flight. The first group of boat refugees came right after the Vietnam War, and the last pool came when the Soviet Union collapsed, which was celebrated by us, but which created greater repression in the remaining Communist regimes. And no one is questioning that people have fled Vietnam. It was a tradition in the West earlier to accept people who came from Communist countries, but that will quickly disappeared after the Soviet Union was dissolved. It is, as I said, estimated that half of the boat refugees lost their lives, and all those who have seen Hans Petter Moland’s ‘The Beautiful Country’ get a tiny glimpse of what a flight in the open water boat is all about, and why people fled. Then they ended up in the Philippines. Some got refugee status and came to Norway, some of them, including more siblings of those who got refugee status and came to Norway, did not get refugee status. Some of them returned to Vietnam with the repatriation program that was later terminated, and some remained. So why is this case special, and why should they come to Norway? Well, the matter is special because the refugees of Amnesty and others are considered to be really stateless, without proper rights in the Philippines. There is a group in which many were separated from their families during the UNHCR refugee selection process, which should not happen. Since then, the selection process has been criticised for being corrupt. The refugees have been sitting for 15 years, which suggests that their status should be finally clarified, and the UNHCR has stated – I want to tip off, among other things. Because of the entire process that has been in the past — that it will be a ‘strong humanitarian gesture’ to receive them. Of course, UNHCR will never give priority to people who do not have refugee status, rather than people who do, and there are 20 million other people who have it. Nevertheless, they say that there will be ‘a strong humanitarian gesture’, and it will give us room to interpret it to the point that this will be met with gentle eyes. There are also several other countries that are either considering accepting or accepting these refugees. Refugees will have a better life, and their families in Norway will not worry about siblings and other family members. And in this way, we put a dot for the Vietnam War and for a part of them that was hit by it. That is why we in the Grand Duchy today are making a wise decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1824	I've been in refugee camps in Hong Kong. Hopeless was just the first name of the mood there. I would have been in Vietnam and met those who had to go home again – to poverty, injustice, condemnation. The ones we are talking about today have dressed up in a country they are unwanted in, without civil courts and with very limited possibilities for the future. It's a coincidence that they didn't come to the West too long ago. They have fallen between all the chairs. They were boat refugees along with brothers, sisters, parents who came to Norway. They fled from a Communist regime, from persecution and harassment. They dreamed of freedom. Now they may have waited long enough. Norway was one of the signature countries at the Geneva Conference to buset Vietnamese boat refugees. However, we are not obliged to take these people to Norway. But it is according to the UN to see as a strong humanitarian gesture, and I think there are too few strong humanitarian gestures in the world. I'm glad that the United States, Australia and New Zealand are planning to do something of the same thing we do today. That means we can get a worthy end to the Vietnam War. Should the Philippines have cleaned up? Yes, absolutely. But they haven't. 15 years may be long enough to wait without citizenship, without employment, without housing permits, without school, health care or acceptance. The Christian People's Party does not believe that these people will become a burden to Norway. On the contrary. We believe that they will largely create a future, build Norway, get help and support from relatives and friends who were luckier 15 years ago. In fact, I believe that Norway may in the future need these many young people with a fantastic will for survival, with the ability to stay. Governments and state councils have recommended, or – it is fairer to say – have reluctance to prescribe, a special law to solve the problem. The Christian People's Party thought that it was acceptable, and a multiple of them was behind us having such a special law. We understand that there is no plank running. We understand that the Government must examine who this special law must apply in order for us to achieve the goal that the Storting wants. But the government has got some help. The images and names of the relatives and family in Norway have been in newspapers. A basic job has been done. The Christian People's Party felt it was important that this special law should come as quickly as possible. It is, of course, entirely decisive that it is handled by the sitting potion. We are asking for something as strange as a special law. We can't leave the decision to another big thing, it's unreal. Therefore, the date on which the Christian People's Party participates in the decision is a guide. The score does not reach the end of April or 1 May. The point is that this magnification must have time to handle the laws, adopt it. I have confidence that the Council of State and the Government will facilitate that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1846	In 1979, Norway was one of the signature countries in the Geneva Conference to buset Vietnamese boat refugees after the Vietnam War. In 1989 Norway attended a new conference. This was the result of a separate plan for the construction of Vietnamese refugees, a plan which ended in 1996. In 2004, almost 2000 of this group are still in the Philippines, with very limited dishes. 29 families — perhaps closer to 100 individuals — have a family in Norway, but not close enough to a family reunion. The Municipal Committee visited the UNHCR in Geneva in the spring. It was strong, I thought, to be set face to face with the Fridjof Nansen statue in the foyer of the UNHCR's main building. I, for my part, was reminded of Sigbjørn Obstfelder's poem where he asked, 'Can the mirror speak?' There he says that the mirror looks at you every morning and asks, 'Are you clean?/ Are you believing?' I thought Fridtjof Nansen stood in UNHCR in Geneva and asked the Norwegian populace: Are you in the pact with the humanitarian traditions for which I participated? The UNHCR states that this group does not fall under the refugee convention. Nor are they considered to need protection in a third country. But the UNHCR acknowledges that this is a group that has had its own problems for a long time, and therefore they say that it is a strong humanitarian gesture of Norway to accept its part of this group. The centre party stands by the proposal that we agreed to promote in ours. There were thorough rounds in advance in different parties before the proposal was finally presented, fine-tuning what was to be written, so that we were sure that we had a wide range of numbers and did not create undue hope. We believe that, just as Australia, the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries, we are going to provide work and subsistence on a humanitarian basis, under a special law. The central party disagreed with the government when they reduced the number of quota refugees from 1500 to 750. We're happy with the extension that happens next year, and that's notifying the additional extension. We are disunity in the selection policy that Erna Solberg now seems to be turning into a spokesperson. There will always be balances when it comes to who is most in need, but it is the number of quota refugees and the legislation that is most important in view of such weighings. What we're doing now is we're praying for a clean-up after the Vietnam War. We make it possible for almost 100 people with family ties with Norway to get a new start. This is a one-time decision, and the Central Party sincerely hopes that this will be accepted. We argued that the department looked at full pressure, got a special law to the Stortinget before the end of April and started other necessary preparations, so that we got a worthy conclusion to this case for some of the individuals who were affected by the Vietnam War. I must finally say that I am a little surprised by the Labour Party, because it is on a case-by-case basis that one asks questions from the Stortinget's side, and that one gets the Council of State's assessment. Seventh and last, in many cases, there is a political balance, and one takes a decision. That's what we're doing in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1863	With this proposal, the Stortinget is invited to participate in a humanitarian handshake to a group of people who are in a difficult situation, after one of the greatest tragedys that took place in the previous century. It is also a gesture towards a Norwegian city, even a refugee from Vietnam, Kieu Tran, who has worked for these people for a long time. The left has respect for the fact that the Council of State does not share our views, and that she thinks others are more real refugees today. The left, however, felt it was a pity that there had not been any greater outreach on this humanitarian handshake. We are particularly surprised that the Labour Party has missed out on a proposal that they themselves agreed to make. I'm not going to repeat all the arguments in this case, just stating that for the Left they have been ambiguous. For the left, the human being is in the center. We can make an important difference for these people, who were forced to flee their country. Then I am pleased that a number today will make it possible to invite them to Norway, where relatives and friends are ready to accept them. The nation also needs them and wants them to be welcomed. The option expresses different views on Norwegian refugee policy. The left has its point of view on it and will continue to be engaged in a liberal and decent, but not naive, policy in this area. In this context, it is sufficient to state that this case does not change the principle of Norwegian refugee and immigration policy. As has been said clearly in the setting and by several in this room today, this is a special case, which is treated with a special law. After the Left's view, this is an important contribution to ending a bad chapter in our history. Today is ten years and a week since Annette Thommess passed away. I'm proud that Left was Annette's party. But I'm almost overwhelmed, impressed – and quite audacious – by the efforts she made to help people escape. She started and organized the Lysecilaction in 1979, which scared hundreds of Vietnamese in the 1970s. She later makes friends with the Vietnam refugees. With the decision we are making today, by allowing these boat refugees to arrive in Norway, it can be a fine and dignified conclusion to the work that Annette Thommessen started. It is not always the case that the rules are compatible with human beings, and then the left rules change, not human. Left participated with joy in this humanitarian handshake and is very pleased that there is a plurality in this room that wants these human welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1877	I would like to stress that I think this is a difficult matter, not difficult in relation to what conclusions the Government has drawn overall about the situation, but difficult because it seems to rely very strongly on information provided by interest groups among those who have family here and in several other countries and who are not supported by those who are responsible for monitoring and monitoring these issues. For me, it means that it is relatively difficult to experience a debate where the motives for what the High Commissioner has said seem to be somewhat different. I would like to stress that we have been in contact with the High Commissioner on the use of the term humanitarian gesture. The High Commissioner who replied to the ministry was: «UNHCR has stated on several occasions that, if States are willing to reunite families outside of their reflective settlement quotas, this would be a humane act, but that we oppose the use of such quotas for non-refugee populations.» That's the understanding of the humanitarian gesture. The High Commissioner believes that people should be able to achieve family reunification on a broader scale than what the Norwegian Foreign Affairs Act says. Nor is it the case that there is a special situation in connection with family contact for this group. Very many of those who have been given residence as refugees in Norway have relatives of as close as these around the world, but because these are no longer in a refugee situation, they have been refused to come here. That's why we've said that it's very important that we have a special reason for this group, if not this is a massive extension of the principles for what we're going to do, and who we're going to pick up. But then to the question, are we in a special situation in relation to the boat refugees? It is true that we had obligations to the boat refugees because we chose to go in for it in 1979. But something has happened since 1979 and up to today. At the end of the 1980s, the UNHCR took an initiative towards all resettlement countries, on a comprehensive plan for the boat refugees who were in Southeast Asia. The background was that UNHCR looked with great concern at a massive poverty outflow from Vietnam, where people put life and health into play precisely because it was a great deal of resettlement from Vietnam to other countries. We, together with neighbouring countries, include: The Philippines and Vietnam joined these principles at a large conference in June 1989. So this meant that it was the High Commissioner who was going to make an assessment of the individual to decide whether to relocate in the West, who to integrate in the neighbouring countries, and who to return to Vietnam in security. At the same time, the High Commissioner ensured that the open invitation to resettlement was actually closed in most countries, not attracting more like the escape from the poverty situation in Vietnam. It's absolutely right that the situation is difficult in Vietnam. It is absolutely right that poverty is great in the Philippines. This plan thus ceased on 30 June 1996. It had worked for seven years. 74 000 people were considered refugees and were resettled in western countries. 88 000 were not judged to be refugees. So the High Commissioner's job is to return these to Vietnam and find local solutions. It is important to underline this, because it sounds like nothing has happened since 1979 and until today. There has been an end to the boat refugee question. So there are 2,000 people left in the Philippines. Some of these have been related in Norway. But I understand the great commitment that groups around them have had to get resettlement. I would like to stress that many of the information given in this connection does not seem to be correct. So the High Commissioner - it's not me, this isn't part of what SV usually calls an anti-immigration assessment - that I'm usually told that we should listen to a lot, so it's clearly said in the case of these Vietnamese: «Many are already de facto integrated locally.» The Canadians say in their country review: "They are more prosperous than the average Philippines in the same area". It becomes a little strange to me that the picture given by the situation and the difficulties should be undisputed, when it is not confirmed by those who follow up and who follow up on what the situation actually is. So it's been an attempt at naturalization. There has been significant activity from the support group linked to those who have not been naturalised before the resettlement processes to Norway, the United States, Australia and New Zealand have been completed – for they prefer to hit. It's okay, but it's not a unique thing. Then we can be humanitarian, but now we are humanitarian at the expense of people sitting in camps who need protection and who have great problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1906	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1909	It is true that many refugees and asylum seekers want to come to Norway. That is why it is also a heavy responsibility for us to deal with asylum and immigration policy fairly and correctly. The Labour Party has based much of its conclusion on the information provided in the letter from the Council of State to the Committee. However, some of the issues that the Council of State has raised are, from several quarters, among other things. Yesterday's newspaper, attended. Against this background, I would like to have a confirmation from the Council of State that she continues to benefit from the information provided to the Municipal Committee in the form of letters. And then I'm surprised at the Left, who says they're disappointed in the Workers' Party. Then I think they should first clear up in their own government, because it had also become a majority with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1916	I would like to confirm that the information we have provided, as far as it is possible for us to confirm it – so we have not gone to the Philippines and carried out investigations – is based on the information provided by the local representative of the High Commissioner, and they are based on information collected by our embassy in all areas. We have obtained information from all the resettlement countries that have asked for resettlement, the background to their assessment, and the land assessments that countries with much greater resources and capacity have made. It is interesting to see that the resettlement countries, other than Norway, are countries that have a different type of immigration policy and are therefore more open to family reunification than we are – none of them due to protection needs, but for humanitarian reasons, among other things. family ties. Some of them run a relatively strong selection. In fact, the United States has delayed part of its work, among other things. because the information from the group that has acted as an activist in relation to it has been shown not to vote at some levels. So we're going to have to spend a lot of time checking out what has come from information to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1923	This is a matter that has gone back and forth a long time between the Storting and the Government. I notice that new information and new letters, such as the State Council of Solberg, are constantly missing. And again, this is mentioned by the fact that there has been a lot of pressure from the Vietnamese refugees to make sure that there is no definitive solution to the Philippines. It's a pretty strong claim that we haven't found any evidence other than Erna Solberg's statements. That's why I could imagine getting it documented in writing in a better way, and not just getting it out of the Storting pulpit. So I'll ask you one question. Erna Solberg has gone a long way in going in order for refugees to be accepted on the basis of their own country. Does Erna Solberg think that not selecting refugees on the refugee quota that just have families in Norway will be a good and proper selection?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1930	The President would say that there are hardly any other statements that weigh more than the statement of a Council of State from the Parliament's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1933	I fully agree that this is important, among other things: ensuring that families can come to Norway within the refugee quota if they have family here and that we can give them priority to resettlement only if they have a need for protection, and that is the need for protection that is crucial in this context. That's why when we first take out the quota, we often prioritize people who already have someone here. We also did that when we picked up refugees from Kosovo under the Bondevik I government, we prioritised taking those who already had some contacts in Norway, because that would make it easier for them. When we have placed more emphasis on integration in the last three years, it is because we need to ensure that we have balanced minority groups. We're still one of the countries that takes the most of the vulnerable groups, but we have to balance it with some strong people in the same minority group, so that we get groups that are ethnically able to support each other. With regard to the information here, the information provided by our embassy is that the resistance to the bill has been great on the part of the support group. That is sometimes the basis for wondering why — perhaps because there would not have been a debate on such a matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1940	There should be no doubt that from the point of view of the majority, we have stressed, after the Council of State's recommendation, a special law, just to establish that there is a different concern than the need for protection on which it is based. My question would then be: What is the main reason why the Council of State rejects this proposal? Is it that an exception is made for a group by means of a separate law, or is it that she is concerned that this might have consequences for other groups? And then finally, it's clearly said from the majority that there won't be consequences for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1945	My main reason and for the Government to say no – so this is a question that the Government has addressed – is that we believe that we should give priority to those whom the High Commissioner recommends and who have a need for protection. That's our principle. Even if it had been out of the quota, the option would always have been to expand the quota. The government has the ambition to expand the quota from 2006, as we have also stated clearly. Assuming that we still have low asylum arrivals, and that not too many of those left are allowed to stay in Norway, it will be easier to settle for refugees, because we have more room for settlement in the municipalities. This is the main principle, but a common principle of our foreign policy is also the principle of non-discrimination. We make this special law, but there are people in many parts of the world, especially in the Middle East and Africa, who are stateless, but not in a critical situation – among others. Among the Palestinians, there are quite a number of them — and many here in Norway would like to have their relatives here. In general, I find it difficult when we do not have a principle of non-discrimination, but it is clear that we have a law of our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1950	I really didn't intend to take a line at the Council of State, but the Council of State contradicts itself repeatedly, and I actually experience to see that the Council of State is standing in a swing door here now, for all her arguments are swinging and changing for every time she is on the pulpit. If it is the principle of equality that the Council of State is very concerned about, I would also recommend to the Council of State to implement the principle of equality in all other types of immigration and asylum policy in Norway. I would recommend the Council of State now to add to its performance in this matter. Clearly, there has been a high degree of record in the matter before the Council of State, for she has operated with old and out-of-date information in a letter to the Committee. And I really hope, when this case is adopted, that the Council of State also in retrospect adds to the achievement, so that we can carry out this matter in the most favourable and effective way possible for these refugees involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1955	The progress party has some difficulty in this matter. I hear that from the arguments, and then it tends to be as dirty back as possible. In fact, a fundamental part of our foreign administration is the principle of equality. We use the principle of equality in all treatment of foreign affairs, that equal cases should be treated as closely as possible. It's not always going to be like this, for example. because of the UNE system we have, but therefore we come up with a proposal, which I have already announced in a big message earlier, to create a great deal that will ensure that where there can be a big gap, where the assessments may be different, fundamental opinions can be used. The basic question in this case is not whether we should help refugees or not, but whether we should help those who are the most in need, or those who have contacts in Norway. There is no doubt that many of these Vietnamese people are going to make a good contribution to Norwegian society, and they are going to be cordially welcome to Norway, but it is therefore a violation of the main rules, and it is a breach of the recommendations made by the High Commissioner, also in the use of the refugee quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1965	Since the Council of State reiterates this with UNCHR's recommendations, UNCHR's recommendations are, as the Council of State refers to them, UNCHR is against including these people in the quota of displacement for others. And that's exactly why, before the summer, we made a proposal to expand the quota, because it was important for us to make sure that these didn't force others. So the government expanded the allowance. Then we feel that it's right to follow up, and that there's a basis for taking these people within this quota. So one can always discuss further in the future: should we have another system, where we also had the opportunity in special cases to decide that we should accept groups of people precisely because they had special links with Norway? Some could say that these people could have had labour immigration instead, by prioritizing them, among other things. because they had relatives in Norway. However, some such proposals have not been made by the Council of State, and that is why they are going to be like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1972	The representative Heikki Holmås cannot deny the fact that he is going to vote today for a proposal that probably implies that between 80 and 100 people who do not need protection and who, according to the High Commissioner, are «locally well integrated in the society» will come, instead of us, for example. picks up hundreds of Burma refugees or Burundi refugees. That's the choice Heikki Holmås actually takes with him the way he votes now. He can hide it through rhetoric. He could also have suggested that they be taken into consideration on labour immigration. It had meant lowering labour migration requirements to provide unskilled labour for the majority of this group. They had to have a job in advance to get it. It is not relevant for this group. If you're going to pick up this group first, you have to be aware that they need both an integration plan when they get here, and they need help to get to work, and therefore work permits would not have been so topical. Norway is different from a country such as the United Kingdom. The United States, where you get help for two months, and after that you have to do yourself. Norway has a different philosophy of integration policy, but we have a philosophy of protecting people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1979	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1982	Vietnam is a dictatorship, although very much of the economic development we've seen lately has indicated the opposite. It's a country with 80 million inhabitants, and there are 2 million members of the Communist Party. So the Communist Party is running a one-party state, and it's a system of quite extensive use of agents. It's a brutal policy towards people who think and believe differently from the regime. There is strong censorship, and there is torture and imprisonment, which are often arbitrary, without the rule of law being applied. Those who opposed communism are particularly vulnerable. So even if someone can have economic motives for wanting to escape, you also have to think about this being about fleeing from a cruel regime, a regime of terror. I have experienced myself being arrested in Vietnam, and there was no very pleasant experience. In the case of a quote from UNHCR that many are already de facto integrated, it is rewritten by the Department to ensure that they are actually well integrated. I think that's right for many, there are different degrees of integration. But we also know that the refugees who are in the Philippines can't buy property, they can't get work, they can't take insurance, and they're not protected by the police if they're exposed to ransack, violence, or other forms of crime. Many people are also arrested if they are trying as street salesmen today. But someone's probably made it. The thing is, the situation isn't exactly equal to the 2,000, so both of them can be true. What is important here now is that Amnesty International has written in a letter of 8 December that ‘these people are matched no rights, including the right to work, travel and the right to nationality’. These are fundamental human rights, which these refugees lack. They're boat refugees. Many of them have also been picked up by Norwegian ships, but have for some reason ended up in the Philippines. Then several references have been made to a bill to ensure integration in the Philippines. This bill has now expired, per year. ==References== Therefore, it must be promoted again, and per year. the current date has not happened. This has happened against the will of the Vietnamese, and the interest office with voluntary lawyers who have worked for the rights of these refugees has sought help and pledged for this proposal, not against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e1993	At the risk of starting legal proceedings on behalf of the Philippines in this Parliament, I would just like to stress that it is actually such that the bill can be reactivated and relaunched. But there's been resistance from the group itself, because you've been afraid of it. The letter that has left the group says that they believe they should have such a law for those who are not being resettled. All the indications we have at the trial in the Philippines are that the group itself actively countered the fact that it was going to go ahead with the legal work, assuming that it would provide a naturalisation that would result in several countries not taking back any more. We get that information. We also have information from the High Commissioner, who believes that the information provided includes: whether the situation of the group is significantly disproportionate to the actual situation. These are discussions we can have back and forth. Anyway, we know that eventually there will be a group that doesn't come anywhere. They're going to need an international society that's going to take care of it, so they don't become stateless anymore. That's a pretty important part, because the United States has said they're not going to accept those that they've already given up. They're not going to take those who married Filipinos. Many have done so. They live integrated into society. So it'll still be a challenge for us to make sure that these people get citizenship and opportunities, that they're not in a residual group that because they don't have relatives elsewhere, is actually in a worse situation, because the group has become smaller, and the attention has become less.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2000	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1221]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2015	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the representative Simonsen shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2022	In Document No: 8:4 by Jan Simonsen, representative of the Grand Duchy, it is proposed to put in place a system of closed reception camps for asylum seekers. Furthermore, the representative asks the Government to consider establishing a system whereby asylum seekers moving outside the host camps are controlled by electronic tags. There is a broad majority in the Committee that does not wish to go into the premises of the proposer in this matter, and I will briefly outline three main arguments: Firstly, all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, believe that the proposals are incompatible with the main lines of the Norwegian refugee policy. There has been, and remains, cross-political agreement that the reception system should be open. It is not criminal to seek asylum, nor if you do not meet the criteria for obtaining a residence permit. Secondly, both proposals are highly problematic in relation to both the European Convention on Human Rights and the Children's Convention. And thirdly, there's no legal basis for any of the proposals. Similar proposals have also been voted down in the past by this increase. Other measures will be able to fulfil the intention of the proposal. In his letter to the Committee, the Minister of Local Affairs writes that measures are being considered to improve the protection of asylum seekers who have committed criminal acts. However, the institution of asylum must be preserved, it is the abuse we must get alive. In conclusion, I would just like to say that it is a thought-provoking word that the municipal minister concludes her letter when she writes that she will not be able to support the proposals «not on a principle, moral, legal, economic or practical basis». These should be words of reflection.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2037	I just want to very briefly say a few words about the proposal by the representative Simonsen. The Party agrees that the proposal should be rejected. A similar proposal was put forward two years ago and rejected. The difference between the two documents is that, when it came to establishing closed receptions for specific groups, the proposal is now to establish closed receptions for all asylum seekers, as well as electronic markings for asylum seekers coming here. There's a reason to ask, what's next from the representative? The working party believes that there may be grounds for having a differentiated reception apparatus. The next year's budget also included the Committee and the establishment of a reception centre for the follow-up of residents with special needs. So now there is to be a reception that has enough professional resources and that is 24 hours a day. It's necessary. In this way, we can better care for asylum seekers who need psychiatric treatment. The working party sees that there may also be other groups for which there may be a need to create special receptions. This gives Stortinget ample opportunity to discuss over the New Year, in connection with, among other things, St.meld. No 49 for 2003–04 and other issues to be addressed by the Stortinget in winter and spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2050	I would like to promote the proposal of the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2055	The representative Per Sandberg has promoted the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2058	We are now dealing with this proposal that Mr Simonsen has promoted on closed reception. A closed reception is a prison. A closed reception means putting refugees who come to Norway and seek asylum in prison, even if they have not done anything wrong. The duration of asylum treatment in Norway may be up to several years. And there's no doubt that it's wrong to put people in prison for years without having committed a criminal act, but on the contrary, they use their Conventional right to apply for residence and asylum in a country. This is what the United Nations torture committee has previously stated – Norway is using care to an excessive extent, and so we have been criticised for it in the past. If we had put all asylum seekers in Norway – let's say 10,000 asylum seekers next year, or 15,000 this year – in a reception to sit there on average for well over a year, we would have been sentenced to the study forest away from the United Nations Torture Committee to break fundamental human rights that it looks like nothing. There are few things that upset me so much as that people should be put in prison because they are on the run, or that are more human enemy than that proposal. And it's one thing that's being debated far too little. It should be debated whether we need control and such, but there is something about sticking our fingers in the ground and seeing the consequences of a proposal. Putting people in custody for two years without any criminal activity is completely, completely beyond it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2072	The Christian People's Party is committed to preventing crime among asylum seekers, but we cannot treat all asylum seekers as potential criminals. The imposition of sanctions that are not used in criminal matters either is something that the Christian People's Party cannot be aware of. We therefore disagree that closed reception camps for all asylum seekers, or control by electronic tags, are the answers to preventing criminal behaviour. We maintain the principle that the reception system should be an open offer for asylum seekers. Withholding people in closed reception is a very drastic measure, depriving people of elementary rights. Such a system would not be compatible with the Human Rights Convention, the Children's Convention or Norwegian law. The Christian People's Party cannot defend the possibility of all asylum seekers – for an indefinite period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2079	Norway has major problems with the Schengen rules on the free movement of persons across borders. Asylum seekers come to Norway in large numbers, and many of them are not willing to cooperate with our authorities in documenting their itinerary and identity. Some asylum seekers have also committed criminal acts. It can be a part of and damage the image of asylum seekers as a group. We have to do something about this. The Coastal Party will invite the Government to assess the detention of asylum seekers who destroy their identity documents and who do not cooperate with the authorities. It is important to ensure that there are not many people in Norwegian society who do not know their identity. A threat of detention can motivate asylum seekers to play with open cards to the authorities, and it can reduce the number of unjustified asylum applications, which currently cost much to the Norwegian community. The coastal party also believes it may be appropriate to internalise asylum seekers who commit criminal acts. It will protect society from further crime, and it will protect law-abiding asylum seekers from the burden of involving some asylum seekers in crime. Simonsen's proposal on closed reception camps for all asylum seekers goes too far. It is a legitimate matter to seek asylum. Therefore, the reception facilities should be open. It is only when asylum seekers go beyond the Norwegian law or refuse to cooperate that immigration should be relevant. The coastal party rejects the proposal to control asylum seekers moving outside reception using electronic tags. Such a system is also a form of punishment and will be demeaning to those affected. Simonsen is clearly committed to reducing the adverse effects of our Schengen membership and the open borders. He should be more concerned about preventing the problems by going against Schengen and thereby establishing border controls against the EU. Finally, I would say that the Coastal Party is opposed to Norway being sold piece by piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2096	We've got that! Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1221]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2113	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1221]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2128	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1221]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2143	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1221]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2158	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1222]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2173	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1222]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2189	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1223]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2204	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1225]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2219	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1225]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2234	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1225]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2249	In the budget of the Ministry of Finance there is a feedback on one of the great ideological crusades of the Right, which is now being brought to victory with the help of the Progress Party, namely the launch of the Small Boat Register. It started two years ago that the obligation to register the boat was lifted. At that time it did not make any impression either on the Minister of Finance or on the Progress Party that the Main Organisation of Finance warned against this and pointed out that without a mandatory register it would be much easier to trade stolen boats in Norway and import boats from our neighbouring country. They pointed out that there would also be far greater opportunities for money laundering of illegally acquired funds without a register, which they thought was a major threat both to society in general and to industry. Norway's Boat Industry Association also considered that a mandatory register was the best. In a letter to the Finance Committee at that time, the Minister of Finance also had to admit that the Small Boat Register has some utility value for the police, the main rescue agencies, the customs and tax offices and the insurance companies, and that a suspension of the registration obligation may weaken this value over time. But for the Minister of Finance, it was more important that small leisure boats belonged to the private sphere of people, and that such a strong intervention in this area as today's mandatory arrangement should be terminated. So the fight against crime came second. Then you can think about the difference between small boats, such as a 35-foot cabin cruiser and small or larger cars, mopeds, etc. in the case of movement within or outside the private sphere of people. I hope I do not now sow the ideological idea of the Minister of Finance that the motor vehicle register should also be privatised, for example. Leave Viking or Falcon! Nor did it make the impression that the Royal Norwegian Federation of Boats called it scandalously that the Government would suspend the registration obligation and suspend the operation of the register, after it had been used approx. One hundred million. kr on the establishment. Registration was lifted, and what happened? Yes, the insurance industry demanded registration in order to take out insurance on the boat – from state to private registration requirements, in other words, and that is of course a great ideological advance! Now, chapter 2 of this ideological crusade ends, the outsourcing of competition. The rescue company has won the tender and will take over from 1 March next year, and with what result? Yes, in addition to the 300 kroner it has cost to register the boat until now, an annual charge of 100 kroner will be paid to stand there. The small boat fee, which the Minister of Finance and the Right claimed was the large master plan behind the Small Boat Register, therefore had to be introduced by a Right-State Council, with the support of the Progress Party. The big question, to which I hope the Minister of Finance can explain, both to us in this room and to the small boat owners, is: What advantage does the country's 350 000 small boat owners have of being the Rescue Company operating the Small Boat Register? What guarantee do they have that the hundreds of dollars they now receive in the 2006 annual fee will not become more over the years? I address the proposal of the Labour Party and the Coastal Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2266	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2269	I will be very brief, and just recommend the setting as it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2274	I'm going to be almost as short, but I just have to say that the considerations that the representative Svein Roald Hansen came up with related to the Small Boat Register are a study of how Right-Policy gets completely out of control where ideology leads to them now privatizing a register, which imposes greater charges and leads to less security. It is in this way a good example of how bad things can go when some ideological reasons just set themselves a goal that this should be private and not public. I understand Svein Roald Hansen's concerns in that way. I just want to mention the two proposals SV have in the setting, and there are proposals that it is important to take into account. One is our proposal to strengthen the tariff rate, and the other is to strengthen the tax rate, both of which relate to redispatch within the framework of 22. The starting point, of course, is the fight against crime and the fight against tax evasion, which we believe must be given a higher priority, and we have found room for this within this framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2281	This year, too, the Centre Party has tried to increase its commitment to the black economy, by 30 million. kr extra to the tax haven and 20 mill. kr extra to the customs debt in our alternative budget. The black economy is a huge problem and is estimated to be 5 pst. GDP. It means a huge loss for society – probably billions of dollars. It means rotting and impossible competition for those who try to operate legally in some industries. The construction industry and the catering industry have been mentioned in the past as the most affected. In the last few weeks, dental technicians and vegetable dealers in Oslo have also been stamped – it has been discovered that few of them pay taxes. This is very contagious, and much more needs to be done to combat the problem. Then there is a need for increased resources. Putting increased resources into this area is super-profitable. This is about the cost of each job being returned 10–15 times in the very short term. This does not help to give priority to this area in all the other areas to be given priority. A unanimous committee has stressed that the VAT refund scheme for the municipal sector should be implemented in such a way that no municipality should lose a single penny, which has now been established by the Government. It's positive. Then, in several letters to Stortinget, most recently dated 18 November, the Municipal Councils have pointed out that the municipal sector will have a significant amount of 600 million. NOK 1 000 million. DKK in return for 2004 at the end of the year. The majority of the Committee on Finance has decided, in the vote on the new retirement of the 2004 budget, that municipalities with claims should be able to balance this, thereby avoiding any cuts in the services pending final settlement. It is important to notify that this consensus reached by the majority of the Financial Committee has been made known rapidly. The center party proposes to grant an additional 1.25 million. kr, to the Statistical Central Bureau, so that statistics on local referendums are made available in the same way as regular election statistics. We want local referendums to be used much more. The annual operating costs of such additional statistics are estimated at NOK 200000. We hope for more support for this proposal at the next crossroads. Then I'd like to bring up the suggestions that the Center Party is behind in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2298	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Then it is only the Coastal Party's proposals that have not been taken up. You'll have the chance now, sir. Bastese.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2303	I'm not going to extend the meeting that much, but I'm going to bring up the suggestions the Coastal Party has made. I'll do that from this pulpit. Otherwise, the Coastal Party is against the land being sold piece by piece!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2310	We can do it! The representative Steinar Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 1225]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2322	Before we go to voting, the President will ask for the permission of Stortingen to return to case No. 10th@item: inlistbox A representative of a minority in the Municipal Committee, from the Right or Christian People's Party, would have made a proposal if the proposal were to be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2325	I want to address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2332	Then the representative Hans Kristian Hogsnes has taken up the proposal, and then we get the order of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2339	During the debate, 32 proposals were put forward. It's proposal No 1, Hans Kristian Hogsnes on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 3, by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 5-8, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on the proposals No. 9-30, by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 31, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 32, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, on behalf of the Committee Proposals Nos. 1-31 was included in the vote and proposal No. 32 is distributed in the hall. The President first takes up the minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2386	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9–29, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2526	As regards proposal No: 30, from the Progress Party, this proposal will, in the President's view, have an impact on the next financial framework and will therefore not be put to a vote under the provisions of Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. So it's going to be considered to be lost. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-8, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2564	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government of the Municipality Proposition for 2006 to make an assessment of the current system of municipal property tax and to establish a system of freer municipal tax law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2579	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to ensure that all direct business-oriented measures granted on the basis of the disposal of the capped appropriations by county municipalities. 551 item 60, shall be managed through Innovation Norway.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2594	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to oppose any form of establishment of the Sharia Council in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2609	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue the grant to the Human Rights Service as a permanent scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e2624	These were the minority proposals – and the one majority proposal – except for proposal No. 32, which we're going to get back to. A vote shall be taken on the proposal for a decision of the Committee within the framework of Area 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e4874	The President adopts the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e4887	The President would like to make a reference to proposal No. 32, which in the event of an incurrency has fallen out of the proposal for a decision. This proposal was promoted on behalf of the entire Committee and reads: «Redisposal mandatesThe majority agree that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in 2005 in consultation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the context of attempts at task differentiation in the municipalities of Bergen, Båtsfjord, Kristiansand, Stavanger and Oslo will be able to re-dispose between the under-chapters. 571 Framework proposal for municipalities, post 60 Built-in proposal and the promise under:1. cap. 572 Framework proposal for county councils, entry 60 Inhabitants 2. cap. 630 Aetat, item 01 Operating expenditure.3. cap. 634 Labour market measures, Item 70 Ordinary labour market measures.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e4908	So we're going to deal with area seven.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5157	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5171	Then there is still to be a vote over C. Framework-independent decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5187	The Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have the setting here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5206	This is where the whole committee is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5227	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5262	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5289	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5718	First, the president wants to vote over the race. 524 and 2412, as the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have warned that they will vote against, and then it is voted over the other chapters under I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5736	During the debate, Signe Øye presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5744	There is an alternative proposal from the Labour Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:92 [[2003-2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5765	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5795	The President must ask that there be peace in the gallery!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5810	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 18 November 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for guidelines, approval schemes or other requirements that are suitable for ensuring the seriousness of the labour market.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5816	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5831	The vote will take place on behalf of the Workers' Party, on the proposal of Mr Signe Eye, from the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 23 November 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a case concerning the imposition of financial penalties in the event of an invalid absence from the compulsory Norwegian training for circles of persons not covered by the introduction programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5850	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Heikki Holmås, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 23 November 2004: ‘In the spring of 2010, the Government asks the Government to submit an assessment to the Storting whether the right to Norwegian training for residents and Norwegian citizens should be extended.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5868	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 November 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the grant of Norwegian training for adult immigrants remains an earmarked appropriation.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5888	After the debate, Hans Kristian Hogsnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2004 State Budget makes the following change: Cape. 646 Pioneer divers in the North Sea Item 71 Grants to the North Sea Alliance, can be transferred, increased by 5.9 million. $2.0 million. $7.9 million. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5908	There seems to be an extensive confusion in the hall. Maybe the president was too quick. So it is Hans Kristian Hogsnes who has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, a proposal by the minority in the municipal committee. Normally, the two parties are going to vote for it. Is there anyone who needs further guidance?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5913	No, I think the President has clarified this. According to the comments, the Right and Christian People's Party shall vote in favour of the proposal by the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e5920	That's what the president said. Then we vote again on the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e6332	The president's first to be allowed to vote. 634. The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it. It is then voted over the other chapters under I.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e6992	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 6 December 2004: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the applicable legislation in order to ensure disabled access to outpatients and to ensure disabled persons against discrimination in outpatients. The size request that the result of the review be submitted to Stortinget.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e7010	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 6 December 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Vinmonopolet AS draws up a four-year country plan for the development of the sales network of the Vinmonopolet. The aim of the plan shall be to ensure greater equality of availability within the total number of sales on a national basis. The country plan shall be sent to the municipalities at consultation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e7028	The vote will take place on the proposal by Harald T. Nesvik, representative of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, submitted from the meeting of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on 6 December 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Vinmonopole undertakes a pilot project on public testing of the products of the Vinmonopole.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e7046	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 2-4, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, 5 and 6, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, 7 and 8, from Steinar Bastisen on behalf of the Coastal Party; There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e7083	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5 and 6 from the Center Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e7163	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2, 3 and 4, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e8370	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e9507	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e9705	Let's move on to area 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e10747	So we're going to go over C. Decisions outside the framework areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-15.ana.ud2321e11891	There is no record.
