ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e130	The representative Kjell Engebretsen and Henrik Rød, who have been on leave, have once again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For the Mora and Romesdal counties: John Knudseth For Uppland County: Morten Ørsal Johansen From 14 June to 18 June to take part in the St. Petersburg Economic Forum, an application has been submitted by the Workers' Group for leave to the representative Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The first representative of Telemark County, Rolf Erling Andersen, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget from 14 June to 16 June, under the authority of the representative Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen. The sales representatives, Rolf Erling Andersen and Marthe Scharning Lund, are proposed to meet during the leave period. - It is deemed to have been adopted. Marthe Scarning Lund is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e171	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office for Stortinget's meetings this week. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen. Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e181	The representative of Ågot Valle will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e184	On behalf of Siri Hall Arnøy and myself, I would like to propose measures to increase the turnout.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e189	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning's meeting continue beyond the regulatory time until noon. 16th@item: inlistbox - No objection has been raised against the President's proposal, and it is deemed to have been adopted. The President pointed out that in view of the large number of issues to be dealt with during this week, it has been necessary to extend the morning meetings on Monday, Tuesday and Thursday until noon. 16 and consequently limit the break to two hours. This creates a problem in relation to a committee hearing that is planned to start at 1 p.m. 3:15 a.m. today from the normal end of the morning meeting. 15th On this basis, the President will propose that the sixth paragraph of Section 21 of the Storting Rules of Procedure be waived in this particular case, so that the hearing can be held as scheduled at 9 a.m. 15.15, although the meeting in Stortinget will continue until 3 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox - No objection has been raised against this, and it is therefore deemed unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e209	Unfortunately, the security policy situation has not improved since my regular foreign policy presentation in January. I therefore appreciate this opportunity to give the Storting a supplementary statement. We are constantly seeing examples of the continued ability of the international terrorist networks to carry out actions with great civil losses and suffering. Our own continent was also hit when Madrid became the victim of the cruel terrorist action in March. Of course, we will do our utmost to ensure that the fight against international terrorism can be as effective as possible. We will contribute in all areas where we have special assumptions and the necessary resources. Historically, most of the world’s security problems have been rooted in Europe. Today, however, it is becoming increasingly common for us to find the sources of threats to international peace and stability in the Middle East region. In this statement, I would also like to take note of the fight against international terrorism and explain the situation in Iraq and the progress made in resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Let me start with the critical situation in Iraq. As the Storting is familiar with, the government of the opinion that there was not a sufficient basis for international law to go to military action against Iraq last year. We wanted to give UN weapons inspectors more time, while Iraq was called upon to take concrete disarmament steps within tight but feasible deadlines. As we all know, it didn't work out that way. After Saddam Hussein's forces were defeated, however, we were in a new situation. The task was then to stabilise and rebuild Iraq economically as well as politically, as the UN Security Council called for in Resolutions 1483 and 1511. Norway replied, inter alia: at the request of the United Nations by participating in the international stabilisation force established. Once again, we are in an important phase of development in Iraq. The first element in this is the appointment on 1 June of the Iraqi Interim Government, led by Prime Minister Ayad Allawi. In its presentation to the Security Council on 7 June, the UN Secretary-General’s Special Mission, Lakhdar Brahimi, did not conceal that the process of getting an interim government in place had been difficult within the time frame available. However, consultations had also been conducted with a large number of Iraqi organisations and groupings. Brahimi concluded in the Council that the interim government represents a fair balance between different considerations and that it should be able to contribute to the conclusion of the further process until temporary parliamentary elections can take place by the end of January 2005. The second element of the new phase of development is the unanimous decision of the Security Council of 8 June of Resolution 1546, which states that the occupation will cease at the same time as the transfer of sovereignty to the appointed Interim Government on 30 June. The functions of the occupying authorities today are taken over by the Interim Government. With this we have reached an important milestone in the development of Iraq. Again, it will be important for the international community to assist. We all have to do our part to keep free elections and establish a democratic Iraqi regime. The basis for the international community's efforts in the future will be Resolution 1546, with a mandate from the Security Council under Chapter 7 of the United Nations Charter, and the two letters to the President of the Security Council attached to the Resolution, Prime Minister Allawis' letter of 5 June requesting the Council to mandate the multilateral force to contribute to the maintenance of security in Iraq, and the letter of Foreign Minister Colin Powell of the same day concerning the legal status of the multinational force, including the assumption of the force under the jurisdiction of the sending States. This framework also clarifies the basis of international law for the force, which has been a prerequisite for continued Norwegian military participation. The strength will be under a uniform command that gives the interim government the influence of its activities. The Interim Government may at any time request the Security Council to reconsider the mandate of the Force. The resolution empowers the force to take all necessary measures to maintain peace and security in the country. In parallel, Iraqi security forces under the Interim Government are assumed to be established. It is envisaged that these should gradually play an increasingly important role and that they should in the long term assume responsibility for the maintenance of peace and security in Iraq. The resolution also calls on the UN Member States to make military contributions to the multinational force. Brahimi has repeatedly stressed that an improvement in security is a prerequisite for a credible political process towards the holding of free elections and the establishment of a democratic Iraqi regime. Similarly, Secretary-General Kofi Annan has done and he has made it clear that an international military presence in Iraq is therefore necessary. In his view, it is in everyone's interest to do what is possible to stabilize the situation. The importance of stability as a prerequisite for both political and economic development in Iraq is also underlined by the UN Security Council. The reconstruction will not be able to start seriously, and human resources will not be able to be exploited in a positive way, until that is the case. The Government shares the assessment that an improvement in security is a necessary prerequisite for a credible political process and that this can currently only be ensured through an international military presence. That is the background to the Government’s decision to continue to participate in the military stabilisation work in Iraq. The international community must provide the interim government with the support it needs in order to succeed. Norway must also contribute. After the engineering company, as planned, finishes its mission in a short time, our military presence will consist of a smaller number of staff officers like, among other things. shall be able to carry out tasks related to planning, logistics, civil-military cooperation, intelligence and engineering operations. In addition, we will contribute military personnel, who, together with colleagues from several other countries, can help with the reconstruction of Iraqi defence. Such training is important, precisely because it will help to enable the Iraqis themselves to ensure their safety. A key condition for the success of the stabilisation of Iraq is that the Iraqi people regard the interim government as legitimate. The transfer of sovereignty on 30 June must be and must be seen as real. On the Norwegian side, we have underlined this to a number of members of the UN Security Council and other related countries, including the United States and the United Kingdom. By affirming the right of the Iraqi people to freely determine their own political future and to exercise full sovereignty and control over their finances and natural resources, Resolution 1546 contributes to giving such legitimacy. Another important premise is that the UN must be given a central role in further work. This applies not least in the preparation of the elections in January next year, in the process of establishing a temporary parliament and in the preparation of a new constitution. That is what the resolution does, by giving the Secretary-General's Special Representative a responsibility for these tasks. However, a central UN role requires that the safety of UN personnel is adequately ensured. It's just the multinational military force that can. The presence and efforts of the UN will in itself contribute to giving legitimacy to the political process. I am therefore pleased that the Security Council Resolution provides the UN with a mandate that can provide the basis for such efforts. A third important element is the improvement of the reconstruction process. In addition to its importance for the Iraqi people's living conditions, it will in itself be stabilising. The UN aid body, UNAMI, has played a central role in this work through the adoption of Resolution 1546. Norway will contribute to the reconstruction and the Government has committed 80 million in the current year. development aid and humanitarian aid. It is not just the basis of international law for the force that must be satisfactory. The multinational force must also act in accordance with international law. The government attaches great importance to the fact that neither human rights nor international humanitarian law are broken in the fight against terrorism. Unfortunately, we have seen from other governments more examples that this is not always the case. The abuses in Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq are nothing less than shocking. Iraqi prisoners in Abu Ghraib prison, and other prison institutions in Iraq, undoubtedly come under the term "protected persons" under the third and fourth Geneva Convention. These establish that all persons have the right to be treated humanely and with respect. To the extent that prisoners are treated in a manner which is inhuman, offensive, unpleasant or unfavourable in the sense of the Convention, this would be contrary to international law. It is absolutely necessary that the US authorities get to the bottom of what has happened. We see this as a natural and necessary step, to which the United States is also obliged by international law. We assume that the ongoing investigation will reveal all relevant responsibilities. From the Norwegian side, we have taken a clear distance to the US authorities from the conditions revealed in Abu Ghraib prison. We have also stressed that there is an absolute requirement for the international forces in Iraq and elsewhere to act fully in accordance with international humanitarian law and to investigate possible infringements. Those who may have committed infringements must be held responsible. I don't think there can be any doubt that the US treatment of Iraqi prisoners has made the stabilisation of the country more difficult. Nor do I think there is any doubt that the confidence of the Iraqi people in the United States, in the American forces and in the democratic values of the Western countries is more generally weakened as a result of what has happened. Finally, on the Iraq issue, let me say that I am pleased that Resolution 1546 was adopted by a General Security Council. The consensus shows that the Council has left behind the fragmentation which Iraq's question triggered and which threatened to weaken the Council's authority. The process towards the adoption of the resolution and the unanimous conclusion on it, in my view, also show that transatlantic relations are once again in good hands after the disagreement on the basis of the military actions against Iraq last year. Let me turn to another fundamental problem we have in the region: the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. It is of a political nature and cannot be resolved by terror or military means. For the government, it is alarming that the parties do not seem to want to take this inward. Instead, the parties appear caught in a vicious circle of attacks and retributions. The Rafah battles in Gaza in May, which led to the killing of over 40 Palestinians, including more children, have aroused strong international reactions. Norway strongly protested and asked the Israeli authorities to stop the action. No responsible government questions Israel's right to defend itself. But international law states that the use of power must be both necessary and proportionate to the current threats. The use of heavy military operations in densely populated areas is not easy to see. The government has also consistently condemned the suicide terror perpetrated by extreme Palestinian groups. We have repeatedly urged the Palestinian authorities to do their utmost to combat Palestinian terrorism. We have also repeatedly made it clear that, in the view of the Government, it is not acceptable to use terrorism as a means of achieving political objectives. This also applies in the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. An overall and targeted work on the part of the so-called Quartet, i.e. The UN, the EU, the United States and Russia will be able to give strength and legitimacy to the continued peace process. Their so-called Roadmap for Peace has been endorsed by the UN Security Council and is also in principle accepted by the parties. In the view of the Government, the Roadmap continues to represent the main hope of peace for Israelis and Palestinians since the intifada began in September 2000. It will be an important first step and can create new dynamics if Israel withdraws from Gaza and four settlements on the West Bank. The Israeli government made a decision on this as a matter of principle on 6 June. This is, of course, positive in isolation, although the final decision to evacuate the settlements was once again postponed. It is now important for the international community to maintain the withdrawal process in line with the road map and the vision of a two-state solution. We must also demand that the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza be complete and that the Gazans do not move to the West Bank. The question of borders and the final fate of refugees must, in line with what the Quartet - including the United States - has said, be settled in the final status negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian authorities. Any Israeli withdrawal from settlements in Gaza and the West Bank must be coordinated with the Palestinian authorities. The well-functioning Palestinian authorities are an important premise for progress in the peace efforts and for a viable two-state solution. From the Norwegian side, therefore, we have a strong commitment to assist the Palestinian authorities with internal reforms and can show good results in terms of financial management. However, the Palestinian authorities cannot carry out reforms in a vacuum. The success of reforms also depends on Israel, which has control of several of the framework conditions. Israel must facilitate important reforms for the Palestinian authorities, not least in the security sector. As chairman of the donor country group for assistance to the Palestinians, I have taken the initiative to assess how this group, called the AHLC, can contribute to a positive political and economic development in Gaza in the event of a withdrawal. I note with satisfaction that the Quartet countries have given their full support to such a role for the AHLC. While we are now working for a positive development in Gaza, of course we must not forget the West Bank. Unfortunately, the construction of the wall on partially occupied land and the continuous expansion of the illegal settlements do not give reason to believe that Israel plans to withdraw from the occupied areas in accordance with Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338. On the Palestinian side, a number of challenges remain to be solved, both on the security side and in the administration of justice. Norway expects the Palestinian authorities here to do far more than is the case today. Among other things, the safety forces must be restructured according to the requirements laid down in the road map. A separate fund for budgetary support for the Palestinian authorities - administered by the World Bank - is now in place. Norway contributed EUR 12 million as the first country. dollars to the fund. The funds will mainly be allocated to wages and salaries and to the operation of the health and education sector. As President of the AHLC, Norway has encouraged other countries to contribute. It is gratifying that this work is now beginning to produce results, and that countries such as the United Kingdom, Japan and Canada have contributed to the fund. A solution to the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians will be essential to the progress of other challenges facing the countries of the region. On the other hand, the lack of progress in this conflict must not put an end to much-needed change in other parts of the region. This has been an increasing debate over the last year on the need for reform, modernisation and democratisation in the Middle East region. The report of the 2003 UN Development Programme on the situation in the Arab world has been an important contribution to the discussion. The need for the modernisation of Arab societies, in particular in the field of education and in social and economic conditions, is underlined. The report also points to the need to strengthen the position of women in Arab countries. The need for reform is far from new, but received renewed attention when the term "extended Middle East" was put on the international agenda in 2003. The reform issue was at the G8 Summit in the United States on 8 and 10 June, where several countries in the region also participated. The declaration of the meeting expresses a desire for active and constructive cooperation with the countries of the Middle East and North Africa on development and reform, based on their own premises. The Summit declaration also recognises that the overall development and reform work in the region cannot be seen free from the conflict between Israel and Palestine and the situation in Iraq. The G8 countries will take the initiative to set up a dedicated Cooperation Forum for the Foreign and Finance Ministers of the G8 countries and the countries of the region. They will also set up a wide-ranging cooperation programme. It is important that the G8 countries clearly base their initiative on the cultural and political diversity of the region and on local ownership, while pointing out that this diversity should not be used as a pretext to counter the reform process. It's in line with our views. From a Norwegian point of view, it is positive that the G8 countries support the aid and reform work in Palestinian areas and the AHLC. In particular, it is gratifying that the G8 now calls for contributions to the World Bank Fund for budgetary support to the Palestinian authorities. The EU has long worked to involve Mediterranean countries in closer cooperation through the so-called Barcelona process. This work will continue and will focus more on security policy aspects. The new EU Security Strategy builds on, inter alia: the need to improve the security and stability of the neighbourhoods of the EU. The Barcelona process is an instrument for achieving this objective through increased trade, economic development and broader political, parliamentary and cultural cooperation. The EU’s new neighbourhood policy is also an important instrument both for increased stability and development in the Middle East region and as a contribution to enhanced security in Europe. The government agrees that there is a need for fundamental reforms and modernisation in the region, and our approach to these challenges is similar to that of the EU. We have worked to enable NATO to contribute to such modernisation on defence and security issues. It seems to go against agreement in the Alliance on an offer to the countries of the region on enhanced cooperation with NATO on, inter alia, combating terrorism, defence reform, border security and civil protection; A central element of the international debate has been a growing recognition that the countries of the region themselves must take responsibility for shaping the reforms. Successful reforms depend on local ownership and must be based on their own traditions and culture. But there is no need to hide that the reactions in the Arab countries have been mixed. Among other things, the lack of progress in the conflict between Israel and Palestine is exploited by forces countering reforms. Furthermore, there is no doubt that the abuse in Abu Ghraib prison has made it easier to make use of what is perceived by many in the region as demands based on Western values and norms. Although they are often mentioned together, there are considerable differences between countries in the region, especially in terms of democracy and governance. The problems encountered at the Arab Summit in May in agreeing on the formulations of human rights and equality clearly illustrate the contradictions. However, there are some signs of democratisation and modernisation in the region, particularly in the Maghreb region and in some of the smaller Gulf countries. In the conversations I've had with Arab leaders in the last year, I've noticed with satisfaction that they recognize the need to modernise their societies. We will therefore continue the dialogue with a view to strengthening cooperation with Arab countries on reforms based on their own wishes and priorities. The security situation in Afghanistan is becoming increasingly difficult. In a short time, two Northmen are killed under military and humanitarian service in the country. I would like to express the Government's regret and compassion for the survivors of the soldier Tommy Rødningsby and doctor Egil Kristian Tynæs. The two killings reflect the security challenges facing Afghan authorities and the international community together in Afghanistan. In the future, the country will need international support both for stabilisation and for reconstruction. The efforts of Norwegian military forces and humanitarian aid personnel are important contributions to this work. Afghanistan is still characterised by political, ethnic and religious contradictions. The transitional government is countered by local warlords and elements related to the Taliban and Al Qaida. A particularly alarming development is the rapidly growing drug economy. Drug production is increasingly a source of funding for local warlords and makes it difficult for central government to take control across the country. In order to ensure political stability, an ongoing strong military ISAF exposure is necessary. This will also help to reduce the power of the warlords. In our international military efforts, Afghanistan will be our main priority in the future. Norway’s contribution to ISAF in 2004 will be around 320 persons, including at the base of 200 in a security and security company in Kabul, a management element of about 50 persons in one of ISAF’s three battalion battle groups and to the British-led regional stabilisation team, which is under establishment in Meymaneh in the western part of the country. Norway shall provide fire and rescue teams to Kabul International Airport and up to 10 police instructors to train an Afghan police and border police force. Norway’s priorities for Afghanistan are in line with NATO’s own, which is expected to be confirmed at the Istanbul Summit on 28 and 29 June. NATO Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, with the full support of the Member States, has underlined the importance of the efforts in Afghanistan for the Alliance. However, some military resources are still lacking if the Alliance is to meet its objective of deploying five new regional stabilisation teams before the Istanbul Summit. It is essential that the political commitments we have made towards Afghanistan be followed up with the necessary resources. It is therefore important that the unique support given to the transitional government of President Hamid Karzai at the successful Afghanistan conference in Berlin at the end of March this year is followed up with concrete contributions. For our part, from the turn of the year, we have given Afghanistan the status of a cooperating country for our development assistance. The country will receive approx. 300 million. NOK in Norwegian aid. In addition, as I said, our military and humanitarian contributions come. The international efforts to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a haven for terrorists have not become less important in the near three years since the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. Unfortunately, despite the range of measures taken to combat international terrorism, the Al Qaida network, in cooperation with local groups, continues to have the capacity to implement terrorist attacks and to frame our societies. In particular, it is extremely alarming that there are a number of signs that terrorist groups have tried to obtain weapons of mass destruction. We can't sit still and look at this. We need to take measures to protect ourselves. At the same time, however, we must ensure that the fundamental human rights we want to protect are respected, even if the fight is against something as serious as international terrorism. Not surprisingly, since 11 September 2001, experience has confirmed that the fight against terrorism cannot be won by military means alone, although in some cases it is absolutely necessary. In addition, we need to use a set of other instruments, and we attach great importance to policy reforms, economic measures, the police and the rule of law sectors, to strengthen the education sector and to stimulate cultural contact and inter-religious dialogue. We must weaken the position of terrorists and the reputation they sadly enjoy in various groups. We need to eliminate the underlying causes of terrorism being used as an instrument, whether they are of an economic or political nature, or whether they are rooted in the abuse of religion. Only in this way can we hope to remove much of the basis for terrorist organisations and their recruitment. At the same time, we must maintain our basic position: no objective justifies terrorism as an instrument. Although regional organisations such as NATO and the EU are important, the UN must have the leading and coordinating role in the fight against international terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It was therefore important that on 28 April the Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 1540 on the prevention of the proliferation of such weapons. This resolution gives the Security Council a central role, while stressing the importance of the global disarmament and non-proliferation agreements. The resolution imposes increased efforts on all Member States in the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It draws particular attention to the dangers of non-governmental actors and terrorists getting hold of such weapons. The Government will actively contribute to the implementation of this resolution, including: by giving priority to the work of the various non-proliferation and export control regimes. In this context, the next Conference of Supervisors will focus on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons Agreement, which will take place in 2005. I think it is a pleasure to note that the work on preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction is not without lights. Libya's leader, Mommaar Gadaffi, has agreed to report his weapons of mass destruction development programmes. It is also positive that Iran has established cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, although much remains. On 4 March this year, Norway became a fully-fledged partner to the so-called Dissemination Security Initiative (PSI). This cooperation involves 15 countries, including the United States, Russia, France and the United Kingdom. The objective is to prevent, inter alia: ships and aeroplanes are used to spread weapons of mass destruction. For Norway as a leading shipping nation, it is important to ensure that Norwegian ships are not used for this purpose. Within the framework of the UN Maritime Organisation, the IMO, work is being carried out on the establishment of a multi-national code to prevent the spread of ships. However, this work will take time, and although the Government prefers a multilateral solution, we cannot sit and wait for it to be ready. The Government is therefore in favour of the conclusion of bilateral agreements within the framework of the PSI under certain conditions. First of all, we aim to conclude such a mutual agreement with the United Kingdom on board ships. The agreement will be within the framework of Norwegian and British national law and fully comply with our international obligations. This includes, inter alia: consent to boarding of Norwegian ships on a case-by-case basis will be required. Liability must also be clear for shipping companies, crews and cargo in the context of interception situations. The agreement will be submitted to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner before the Government commits itself. Norway will host the next PSI operational expert meeting held in Oslo on 5 and 6 August. The purpose of the meeting is to further develop the legal framework for cooperation, further develop the exercise programme and exchange intelligence to combat the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We have a challenging period ahead of us in creating peace and stability and in combating terrorism. Not least, the challenges are great and many in the Middle East region. However, the fight against international terrorism is not geographically limited. It must also be carried on our own continent. And, as I said, we can only succeed through committed international cooperation. It is important that, in the fight against international terrorism, we put in place both short-term and long-term measures. That is why our own efforts to combat poverty and to promote human rights and our contribution to freedom from political, religious or ethnic oppression are so important. Moreover, it is a prerequisite for success that, even in the fight against international terrorism, we respect the fundamental freedoms and rights that we want to uphold. For to the seventh and last, it is our own credibility that will be decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e362	The President will propose that the Secretary of State's statement be discussed at a later meeting in the Grand Duchy - and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e376	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each group, and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted. The President will stress that there are many issues under consideration on today's map, and the President asks the representatives to take this into account as the debate progresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e389	It's a human right to have a place to live, and making sure that every place to live is the very foundation of all welfare policies. That is the starting point when we are going to deal with this hoarding communication on housing policy. We waited with excitement to see what the housing message should be like when it arrived. We've been waiting for three years. It was announced, and there was reason to expect major changes in housing policy when the announcement came, because it was outsourced by a government with a government council in the area that had previously been very active in relation to a rather radical transformation of the Husbank. There have been some changes. Performance targets to combat homelessness meant merging loan schemes into a new base loan focusing on the universal design of the environment. A small extension of housing aid was proposed, ranging from an area requirement to a functional requirement, the removal of the financing requirement on dwellings and the possibility for both parents with shared care to apply for housing support. The notification of accommodation also included a proposal for the phasing-out of housing allowances for rental dwellings and the reorganisation of the quality grant to become a competence grant. There were small changes that were addressed in the housing policy, but important changes, which I will comment on in my post. The most important thing about Storting’s handling of the housing notification is that a government option consisting of the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the SV has gathered on important features in a common housing policy platform, and that the distinctions between our parties on the one hand and the government parties and the Progress Party on the other hand are evident. Even in terms of housing policy objectives, we disagree. The government believes that everyone should live well and safely. But when the government believes that people should live well, they mean a good housing, while the majority of the committee believes that the good housing should be of good quality in a good living area with good living conditions. The fact that the government is staring blindly at the individual human being and the individual dwelling and losing sight of the fact that people actually live in a living environment in interaction with other people, I think that's amazing. It is reflected in the Government's proposal to remove the rest of the grants aimed at improving the living environment, improving housing law and urban renewal. They are in favour of lift subsidies and will descend and eventually remove subsidies for rental dwellings. Again, individual grants and grants for the development of competences are available. SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party focus on the whole. We will have grants for lifts in existing housing stock to ensure that more apartments will have universal design, because most of the homes of the future are actually already built today. We want grants for area development and urban renewal, for having carrots to offer private ones, so that they use the Husbank's competence. And we want grants to non-commercial rental properties to ensure good, cheap housing in good and integrated living environments. The other difference in the main objective is that the Government completely lacks focus and instruments in relation to price. The government believes that people should live well and safely, but we believe that people should live well and safely at a reasonable price in relation to income. It was this way that the Committee had to go to Finland to find out how uneven housing costs are between the poor and the rich. The fifth of young people with the lowest income pay on average 40 pst. Of what they earn, of living, what we call the bout toxin load. It's in this group of youth we find them as tenants. It is in this group of youth that we find that the few have the right to housing support, unless they have children. At the same time, in this country, with the highest incomes, they have low boute-tox loads and pay little of their income to live. On average, they pay 11 pst. The Bouttox load is lowest among the rich old ones, who only pay 2 pst. of what they serve, to live. In such a situation, we are faced with a choice. We can choose to provide housing support to groups that don't have it today, namely lonely and couples without low-income children, while at the same time ensuring that there are enough non-commercial cheap rental homes for young people and others who have problems in the housing market, because we know it works. I repeat, we know it works. But the government doesn't choose that, because when the government is going to spend SEK 1.8 billion in the housing sector, they choose to spend it on housing taxes and a little bit more on: taxes on property. So the government line is that all economic instruments should be targeted at those who need it the most, except for the money that goes to the tax haven. Therefore, one of the most frequently used statements from the Government in the cancellation of the housing announcement is that this housing announcement is not about tax policy. We understand why when we see that in the tax notice they go in to spend 1.8 billion kroner in tax bills for those who have housing, while people who have trouble in the housing market don't get one extra ear from the Government. The government takes from those who have little, and gives to those who have. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party would rather use the 1.8 billion to ensure that all lonely people get housing support, and that all couples without children with low incomes have housing support - the latter we disagree a little between themselves. We would much rather use the money to build 3,000-4,000 rental homes. We would rather build 1000-1200 student homes and 1000 low-income homes and be generous with grants to provide good quality and area development to help municipalities plan their entire lives and provide more opportunities to live well and safely in good living environments, with good living conditions at a price that is reasonable to their income. So here, there's a major difference in housing policy, a main difference between those who want to spend money on tax bills, and those who want to spend money to provide a better housing for more people, that everyone should be able to have a home and live well and safely at a price that can be used to live with. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV believe that the Husbank, which has been the main housing policy instrument throughout the post-war period, will continue to play the role in the coming years. In order to ensure a stable housing structure, the House Bank must give the construction industry a stable framework and have a counter-cyclical role in recessions. The fact that the House Bank will have a counter-cyclical role in recessions is therefore not the government's agreement. It's quite eye-catching. In the middle of the year for housing construction, in 1991, the House Bank stood for over 95 p.m. the financing of newly built dwellings. Without the House Bank, the number of bankruptcies in the construction industry had become higher than it actually was. The government has put in place efforts to improve productivity in the construction industry, which we in the Committee require will be followed up with sufficient money. One of the main findings of the sample work is that it is important to prevent major fluctuations in the housing structure, as this results in loss of productivity, leading to more errors and higher construction costs. The household bank must therefore have a counter-cyclical role. In the normal year, the Arbeiderpartiet, SV and the Zenterpartiet believe that the Husbank should finance about half of the dwellings being built. The last thing the government disagrees with, and so do I. Because if we look at all of the dwellings that are built, that have universal design - that is, they have the standard of living, as it was before - most of these dwellings are house-bank financed. If you're going to achieve a goal of getting more universally designed dwellings, it's awfully important that the House Bank is inside and funding a good part of the housing. We in the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have said that in a normal year this should be about half. The government started Project Bostedslöse, and that seems to have been a successful project. A good number of targets have been set for combating homelessness, for no one to leave an institution or prison without having a long-term housing offer. In other words, no one should go to the hospital, no one should live more than three months in a temporary accommodation offer, and no one should be offered a day-old night without a quality agreement. In addition, the number of discards should be reduced. In this context, I would say a little disrespectful that all these objectives stem from a private proposal that SV promoted a little over a year ago. At that time, they were only joined by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, while the government parties voted against. That's why we're very happy to recognize several of these objectives in the message. We support it, but we are quite concerned about whether there are enough instruments to achieve these objectives. For the Government, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget, the Workers' Party had to cut the housing allowance. There was a message and an overview that we had not been able to reduce the number of homeless people by more than 1000 in the last seven years. We still have at least 5,200 homeless people in this country, and what the government thinks is too good to do is reduce the grant to build more rental homes. It makes us doubt whether the government is actually able to achieve these goals. But we end up with the goals. At least that is how the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party are going to do what we can to push that there will be enough money to get rid of the homelessness. The biggest disappointment in the notification of housing, from my point of view, is that the notification does not contain any ambitions as to the means to ensure that the objectives set by the municipalities are met to ensure that no people are disadvantaged in the housing market. In recent years, municipalities have been working on housing social action plans to achieve these objectives. Many municipalities have done this in the belief that this would trigger funds from the state, from the government and from the Storting. I had expected that we would get a summary of the municipalities' reported need for follow-up in the construction of several rental homes, and more money for housing social action plans to provide a proper follow-up support to people who are homeless with drug problems and psychiatric problems, but there is no such summary in the housing report. What we see is that the most important housing policy instrument, which is the grant for the construction of rental homes, is proposed for disposal and initially stepped down to 20 pst. When we were in Bergen -- which is run by a co-operation agency led by a Right Lady named Monica Mæland -- in connection with the treatment glue of the big city message, the clear message from the fresh mayor was the following: The housing grant is the main housing social instrument, and it is the most important means of achieving a fairer balance of living conditions in the big cities. This is not Monica Meland alone about saying. This says more right-wing people around several of the country's municipalities as well as very many other politicians who have been working on poverty problems and the balancing of living conditions. But this refuses Erna Solberg to see. She happily turns her back on her own party traps who work for this. There has been a main line since the war, as far as possible, to bet on owner-occupied dwellings. The fact that people own their own home is important. There are socio-economic gains in it. People take part in the process and save their own wealth instead of participating in the saving of wealth for others. This main line ends at Size. That's the one difference between Norway and our neighboring country. The other big difference between us and our neighboring countries is that we have very few non-commercial rental properties. We, who represent a majority in the Committee, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, believe that this imbalance must be corrected by the construction of several non-commercial rental homes. One of the most concrete things that have come out of this housing announcement is that this majority in the committee is concrete on the construction of several rental homes, while the minority is concrete on the fact that this is something that the municipalities are going to step down their efforts to do. Finally, I just want to say that there are two other proposals that SV and the Central Party are all alone. SV is alone about one of them. It's about two important things. One concerns the introduction of a non-commercial rental housing law to ensure that housing grants go to the people who need it. The second is a larger investment in fixed-rate loans, because we see that those countries with a high level of fixed-rate loans have a more stable price development than others. Then I will take up all the suggestions that SV shares with other parties, and that we stand alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e431	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e436	SV wants a large non-commercial rental sector and believes that 10 pst. of the dwellings shall consist of such dwellings. The working party believes that several non-commercial rental dwellings should be built, but will not go as far as SV. For the Workers' Party, commercial rental properties primarily look like a lock port in an owner's market. There shall be a youth-related, study-related, mobility-related and temporary rental. SV refers to our neighbouring country, which has a much higher number of such dwellings than we have here in Norway. My question to the representative Heikki Holmås is this: Does SV think that the Nordic countries have had a very successful non-commercial rental sector? And: Have not these solutions in our neighbouring countries contributed to greater permanent differences between people, increased segregation, more expensive maintenance and poorer living environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e445	I see that the Workers' Party will not agree to provide that half of the rental market should be non-commercial rental properties. It's very funny, because it was something we were together about last in the budget for this year, but it must be the Labour Party's election. In the case of non-commercial rental homes, and whether it has been a success in the other countries: what I think has been a success is that there are reasonable housing offers for people who do not want to buy their own housing. Because that's actually the way it is, and it's been pointed out by BYGGFORSK to the committee at the hearings that we had, that the risk to individuals by being forced to buy their own home is actually significantly higher than it is at, for example. For example, in the United Kingdom, the number of drugrelated deaths among drug users in the European Union is estimated to be around 2 %. We're going to learn from our neighboring countries, and see what's wrong with their rental home market. That is why SV and the Zenterpartie have proposed this law on non-commercial rental housing companies, which thus does not get a majority here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e454	The housing allowance today is intended to help people with a long-term low economy receive a grant, on average, of NOK 160 000, for the establishment of owner-occupied housing. Today, there's a good headline in the Evening Post: "Make weak eternal clients." Let me take a little example: a disabled person moves into a new home, makes big changes to the home to be able to move around freely. There are situations in which he has to sell. Of course, he does not get back the investments he has made. At the same time, the majority proposal in this Chamber makes it so that he has to pay back to the State the money he has received from the housing allowance. Is this a wild policy from SV? Is it a policy for the weak to remain in their homes forever? It has been said that this will lead to that disadvantaged people, such as drug addicts, disabled people and disabled people, are not actually given the opportunity to move to another home, if the state demands the money back. This is, to quote the Joint Organisation of Disabilities, a very poor proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e463	During the day, the President will be very careful about speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e466	This is a very good proposal, and it is therefore a matter of housing and establishment grants. That's the whole point of this. I have noticed that in the past the government parties have said that this is a bad proposal, considering that it is too bureaucratic. There are none of the new arguments that Erna Solberg has had in the Evening Post today that have been up in the past. It's a very good proposal, because it makes the municipalities, and not the state, reclaim housing grants that they have paid to people, if these people have ended up in a better position. Let me give you an example: during a renovation project, friends of mine have been paid 200,000 kroner by the Municipality of Oslo in housing allowances in connection with the renovation, because they have spent a lot of money there. These apartments have subsequently increased by 1 million. kr. In the right-hand view, you're going to be left with these 200,000 kroner because they're written off over a period of 10 years. With our proposal, which now has a majority, this money will go to the municipality again, and they can then be redistributed to new people. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e473	After hearing the statement from the case-rapporteur, Heikki Holmås, one gets the impression that most of the stuff is wrong in the case of Norwegian housing policy. The representative worked hard to find critical approaches to the housing message and coughed up such old-fashioned socialist statements as that the market has to gain less and no more power in housing policy. But that's the way the market works well - and it's been doing it for over 50 years. I think most people here agree on that. If we see this from a historical perspective, does SV believe that Norwegian housing policy has failed, or has it been successful? And does SV think that it was wrong to bet on such a high proportion of private ownership as we have today, since SV is solely critical and negative to most of the housing information?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e480	I have never said that most of the things in the housing report are wrong. On the contrary, I have ended up on the line of ownership that has been a unified policy since the war. But there can't be a person here in the Chamber who thinks that the housing policy after the war had as its main point of departure that it was the market that was going to decide. On the contrary, we were heavily involved in both interest rate subsidies, housing law regulation and other things, just to ensure that the housing subsidies that were used were kept in these dwellings and so that more people were given reasonable housing. The construction loan, which also ensured that many people would get a home, has worked in a good way. With regard to this market functioning, I will quote one sentence that made me laugh the most when I read the housing message: "A well-functioning housing market shall ideally meet everyone's needs for housing in an economically efficient, socially equitable and environmentally friendly manner." This is perhaps one of the most naive things that has ever been written about the market and how it works. So it's the way that the market sets a price -- not all people secure a dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e495	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e498	The Workers' Party believes that the Government of St.meld. No 23 suggest a weakening of housing policy, not a strengthening, as the Workers' Party claims it is necessary. The Communication makes it clear that the Government no longer considers housing policy as part of a broad welfare policy but as part of social policy. The Labour Party disagrees. In this case, we again see strong dividing lines between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party on the one hand and the Government Parties and the Advance Party on the other. The Progress Party supports the Government over a low shoe throughout the entire setting. The party of progress likes to claim that it's a party for most people. But when it comes to the House Bank, they think it shouldn't be a bank for most people. It must be a very special bank only for the most economically disadvantaged. Everyone else has to borrow in regular banks. If they don't get a loan, there won't be a dwelling either. The Labour Party strongly disagrees with this. It's not everyone who has parents or a rich aunt who can stand as a bailiff for a top loan in a bank. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that the need for social housing is largely covered here in the country. I would argue that social housing policy is not the same as social welfare policy, but a social investment that it is desirable to make on the principle that everyone should have the opportunity to get a good place to live. The Labour Party's vision for housing policy is that everyone should be able to dispose of a good housing in a good housing environment. For us, this will be an instrument for achieving the Workers' Party's general objective of human freedom, equality and fair distribution. We totally disagree with the Government and the Advance Party, which sees the dwelling as a commodity. The working party sees the dwelling as a basis for a good life. Much of the good life depends on whether you have a decent home that you can view as your private -- whether you own it or you own it. The government will have more market and less governance in housing policy. The Labour Party believes that more market management and less political governance will not be able to make it easier for the young and the disadvantaged, who have problems entering the housing market today. A market determines the price of the dwelling but does not ensure that those who cannot afford to pay what the market requires have a good and safe home, which is sober and proportionate to income. For this to happen, there needs to be a stronger commitment to a common housing policy. This is the right side, including the Christian People's Party, disagree. That the Right believes this is a well-known policy, but that the Christian People's Party is going so far as to believe that the market can control housing policy in this country without stronger political governance than the one contained in the Housing Communication is alarming. If we look at the last message about young and disadvantaged, the Christian People's Party is not to recognize. Why does the Workers' Party believe that the housing message we are dealing with today is a step backwards in Norwegian policy? Yes, because the notification lacks answers to several key challenges we are facing in the housing market today. The government does not say how it will get homes for the homeless, and what this will cost. The government does not say how it will ensure that everyone can live with a boute poison that can be mastered in relation to the individual’s income. It does not say anything about how we can achieve a stable housing construction at a high level that counteracts higher price growth than necessary. The government has no recipe for avoiding large fluctuations in housing prices on the ownership and rental market. The challenges are described in the message, but how to solve them is completely missing. The position adopted today shall be the housing policy of the Storting for the next 10 years. Then the answer can't be that this is just going to settle the market. But that's unfortunately how it gets. The government's future housing policy - and setting - goes in sharp contrast to the recommendation of the Housing Committee, cf. Now 2002:2. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party believe that the market must have less and no more power in housing policy. Therefore, housing policy needs to be strengthened by ten measures that are reflected in the adjustment and, among other things, by: contains the following: The role of the home bank shall be strengthened, not weakened. The house bank shall continue as a general bank for housing construction and improvement and shall also be a bank which contributes to facilitating the establishment of housing. The total lending framework of the home bank shall be extended. We believe that it should be built between 20 000 and 25 000 dwellings per. years, and that the House Bank will be able to finance about half of these dwellings. We believe that there is an annual need to build 3,000-4,000 non-commercial rental homes for young people with 30 pst. grants. We believe that a sufficient number of non-commercial, cheap dwellings need to be created to influence prices in the rest of the rental market. It will also make it more neutral between owning and renting a dwelling. The government is going the opposite way and will remove the grant for rental properties. We want to build 1,000 low-deposit homes a year with 15 pst. support for young people and economically disadvantaged. In addition, 1000 new student homes are to be built each year with 60 pst. grants. We believe that the hospital should be closed. It is an expensive offer, often with a rent of between NOK 10,000 and NOK 15 000. per 1 % months. We believe it is possible to get a much better offer for this money by providing other forms of housing. We will give all young people a real opportunity to get a start-up loan, so it will be easier for young people to buy their own home. We believe that housing support needs to be strengthened and housing subsidies increased in order to reduce the impact on those with a poor economy. Today, a lone parent with a child or a couple with a child must earn very little to enter the housing arrangements. We believe that the income limits are too low and will raise the limits by NOK 50000, so that more families with children can receive housing support. One year ago, the Progress Party supported an increase in income limits by NOK 30 000. They don't do that anymore. Low-income families should be aware of this. The municipalities have the key to a successful housing policy. The municipalities have poor finances and have difficulty prioritising housing, a task that is not required by law. Therefore, municipalities need to receive interest-rate and deductible loans so that they can pursue a offensive housing policy and facilitate the development of housing. The government proposes to liquidate the grant for housing quality. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are asking the Government of the State Budget for next year to propose grants for area development in order to encourage overall planning and compensation for investment costs. The working party will also introduce a grant of NOK 40000 per year. housing for municipalities building over a certain number of dwellings per year. years. It will provide municipalities in the press areas with a loving contribution to solving the problems of social infrastructure as a result of increased housing construction. At one point in the setting, the Progress Party supports the other parties - the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. This concerns the need to assess some improvements in the housing grant scheme. The government parties are against this. This majority believe that the housing allowance should no longer be written off for more than 10 years, as at present, but fully paid according to specific guidelines. The housing allowance granted by the government increases the value of the dwelling and falls to the beneficiary of the grant, or heirs, without any need-to-be testing. By recording the housing allowance as a mortgage loan in the dwelling, which is then to be paid upon transfer to new owners and reimbursed to the municipality, the housing allowance will entirely belong to the beneficiary who has received the grant while living in the dwelling, and no one else will be able to receive these benefits. It is worth noting that it is possible to obtain a new grant for the beneficiary living in the dwelling or to take the grant, if necessary. Finally, the Labour Party believes that the market alone will not be able to provide the housing and services needed to meet the needs of the future in an offensive way in housing policy over the next 10 years. The social costs of this can be high - significantly higher than what could be achieved with relatively modest resources by adopting the proposals of the Workers' Party, SVs and the Centre's parties in the vote. But it won't be like that. We're sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e544	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e547	In the years following the war, the Workers' Party has been among the parties that have been concerned that as much as possible should be able to own their own housing. A lot of housing policy has been designed like this, and there has been a broad political consensus about it. Therefore, it also owns close to 80 pst. of all households in Norway their own accommodation. When the Workers' Party is now trying to thrive in companies with the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, I think we hear a little bit different tones. As it now sounds, what is called non-commercial rental properties and other variants of rental properties is soon the only one to be built. Two questions to the Workers' Party's Signe Eye result from this: The Workers' Party believes that there is too much to reach 80 pst. owns its own dwelling in Norway? Is the Workers' Party in the process of leaving the agreement that as far as possible the possibility of owning its own dwelling must be given?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e556	I can assure you that the Workers' Party believes it is still important that people own their own housing. There's a lot of reasons for that, you can read it from the settings. It's not that it's too much that 80 pst. owns its own home. But the problem is that it's too expensive to enter the real estate market. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that in some cases we need temporary solutions, so that we can also stay in the time you have problems buying a dwelling. We have not left any principle in relation to the fact that we believe that very many people should own their own home, but that there is also a need for a number of non-commercial dwellings, is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e563	The working party creates, like both the SV and the Centre party, at least in the setting, an impression that much is wrong in the Norwegian housing market. I think it is strange, as the house announcement is largely a description of today's housing market, which is largely a result of the housing policy of the Workers' Party itself for a number of years. When the Workers' Party says in its comments that there is a need for a significant strengthening of housing policy ambitions, my question is: is it really so bad in the Norwegian housing market that the Workers' Party really believes there is a need for a significant strengthening of housing policy ambitions? If you're looking at it here, what is it? It cannot be that everything is wrong in the Norwegian housing market, as you get the impression from what is in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e570	There has been a very good housing policy here in the country for quite many years, ever since the days of war. This has meant that we have a lot of people who own their own home. The home bank has been one of the most important elements here. Therefore, it becomes quite strange when both the Progress Party and the government parties believe that there is no longer any need for the House Bank. The Labour Party believes that the Husbank is and has been the most important instrument in leading and getting a good housing policy here in the country. That is why we believe that the House Bank should continue to be. That is not the opinion of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e575	I want to start by thanking both Signe Eye and the Workers' Party for a good cooperation in connection with the housing announcement. We have found a lot of positive and a good platform, an ambitious plan where we, among other things, will need about $1 billion in annual appropriations if we are to achieve the objectives we have on the rental front, on the low-income front and in relation to the construction of student housing. In the budget this year, the Workers' Party has no more than one crown than the Government of just housing grants for the construction of rental dwellings. On the same day that we presented this common platform, the Workers' Party, together with the Government, helped cut NOK 36.5 billion in this year's budget for the construction of rental properties. Then my question is: can we trust that next year - and possibly after the 2005 elections - the Labour Party will not only have big words in opposition, but actually bring money and give priority to social housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e584	I can assure the representative Holmås that the Workers' Party is to be trusted. We've been in both government and opposition, so we know what that means. With regard to the measures we have taken in the vote, they mean a cost of NOK 1.5 billion. We believe that this should not be taken for the first year, but that it should go over four years. And I can promise the representative that what we've been committed to together with the SV and the Center Party, we're going to fulfill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e591	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e594	I just want to say to the last replicator that there are several people who have noticed that the Workers' Party has been sitting both in opposition and in position. It is an overall committee that points to the right to housing being enshrined in human rights and that housing policy is a foundation for all welfare policies. It is a very good start, but unfortunately there is also the agreement in the committee. The treatment of this message is characterized by an excessive belief in policy-driven solutions from the left, specifically mentioned by the case rapporteur, but has a very strong focus on the fact that those who need help are actually given help - from the government parties, together with the Progress Party. This housing notification is based on the housing policy that has been in place in Norway since World War II. Since then, all governments have decided that as much as possible they should own their own housing. Norwegian housing policies have been more deregulated than most other countries, which has resulted in Norway having a well-functioning housing market, even in contrast to very many other countries. It is a functioning housing market that enables most people to obtain housing - and to keep their own housing - on their own without State involvement. Thus, direct economic instruments can mainly be targeted at those who need help to establish themselves and to master a housing relationship, which will help to achieve the objective of being able to live well and safely. It is a municipal responsibility that land is made available for housing. Together with both municipal, county and state regulations and regulations, financing opportunities, industry productivity and taxes and taxes, this offer side of the housing market affects. On the demand side, interest, income, unemployment, demography, housing support and other subsidies, taxes and expectations have a bearing on price formation. Of all of these, interest is definitely the most important thing. The government has had as its overall strategy that interest rates should fall. This strategy has been very successful by the Government. The interest rate seems to have stabilised at a record low level. It affects, inter alia: people's living expenses. A family with a normal mortgage saves several tens of thousands of dollars in interest expenses as a result of the fall in interest rates. This, together with the high importance of interest rates for enterprises and thus employment, clearly illustrates the importance of a public policy that facilitates long-term low interest rates. The rapporteur in particular has used a lot of column space on fixed-rate loans. In the Communication, the Government has proposed to give the House Bank greater freedom in terms of loan measurement and maturity. However, it is the individual borrower who has to consider whether to choose floating or fixed interest rates and fixed term. It is unrealistic that long binding times will create some reduced uncertainty. Such a long term will not capture fluctuations in the economy, as it is impossible to predict so far in time, and thus could yield an interest rate that is totally wrong to the economy. In addition, much could happen in a person's private economy and other circumstances such as: affects the individual’s ability to pay. The Government's objective remains that as much as possible be able to own its own dwelling. It will provide each person with greater legal certainty, the possibility of participating in any capital appreciation, while at the same time retaining its own value. The Norwegian model with a focus on owner-occupied dwellings has been very successful, and therefore we in Norway have less housing challenges than our neighbouring countries. It is important that the model of ownership continues to be used - also for the Norwegian housing policy for disadvantaged people. For most, the total cost of owning will be lower than renting. I would therefore like to stress at the same time that for some groups the rental dwelling will be correct, for example. for persons who change dwellings frequently. The number of non-commercial rental dwellings is not a good measure of the functioning of the housing market and housing policy. It can be seen clearly that the Norwegian housing policy that focuses on ownership has been far more successful than, for example: the Swedish model with many more non-commercial rental properties. Locking people in a non-commercial rental home can be a poverty trap. It is very difficult to move from a non-commercial dwelling to an ordinary dwelling. It is also worth pointing out that in Sweden, the country must reach out with billions for the maintenance of the so-called non-profit housing, while at the same time subsidising regulated rentals. We'll get rid of that in Norway. Housing law and housing agreements are an important part of the Norwegian housing market. Several hundred thousand people belong to this system, and the importance of accountability and efficiency in resource use in an economic community of housing law or housing law is very important. An essential instrument for efficient resource use is the use of tenders and the procurement of offers in the performance of work or assignment. Therefore, the Government Parties consider that in the event of a major operation, tenders or the procurement of tenders should always be made. Calls for tenders and offers also create confidence in the accountability and financial independence of the Board of Directors. New numbers for the homeless were submitted a few weeks ago. Since 1997, the number of homeless people has fallen from 6,200 to 5,200. Equally important is that only 2 pst. of which they have no roof over their heads, towards 4 pst. in 1997. In autumn 2002, the government presented an action plan against poverty. Ensuring disadvantaged good, deprived dwellings was a central strategy in this Communication. Difficult housing needs to be ensured a dwelling that they can maintain. It is a prerequisite for the greatest possible working age to be able to cope with self-employment income. It is particularly important that measures to reduce the number of people in the housing market are targeted at individuals in order to strengthen their resources, so as to facilitate their participation in the housing market, and, on the other hand, to address the characteristics of the housing market and the housing stock as unnecessary obstacles to the participation of people. The long-term aim of the government is to combat homelessness. The ongoing project Bostedslöse is scheduled to end in 2004. The Government proposes continued efforts to prevent and combat homelessness. Even with the decline from 1997 to 2004, it is too many homeless people. I want to praise the Government for gripping the problem, and that we are now reaping results from the work. I would like to refer to my own municipality of residence, Kristiansand, which has achieved a strong reduction in the number of requests for redundancies by implementing voluntary fixed social security and social welfare schemes from several residents of municipal rental homes. I would encourage other municipalities to adopt the scheme. The Government's proposals for the conversion of housing policy support schemes are supported by the Government Parties and the Progress Party. The conversion goes more from investment aid - i.e. housing grants - to consumer support - and is more targeted to help those in need of assistance, to acquire and maintain a dwelling. Unlike the left hand side, the main thing for the government parties and the Progress Party is what a household actually pays in net living expenses and not what kind of support is provided. With the government's arrangement, funds are transferred from the housing grant to the housing support, which will ensure that there is no increase in the costs for the individual. This conversion will give municipalities greater room for action in the local housing policy. For example, more people may be able to do so. are established in owner-occupied dwellings, and municipal rentals can be more freely released so that others who need such housing can obtain it. It is also worth pointing out that for each hundred new owner-occupied state has partly financed through the housing grant, it is actually only acquired between 50 and 85 new rental dwellings. Nor does the rent per person pay reflect the high subsidies. I am convinced that the conversion will result in a much more efficient use of public funds in housing policy. I am pleased that a joint committee believes that it is a goal that those who want it should be able to own their own home. I am also pleased that an overall committee believes that the individual grants for the purchase of housing and the start-up loan are good instruments to achieve that. Finally, I want to focus on the main instrument of housing policy, namely housing support. The housing aid scheme is a non-proprietary personalised instrument to help those who have problems with high housing costs and low income. The housing aid shall contribute to the achievement of the main objective, the safe housing and the good distribution of housing. The housing aid shall ensure that old-age, disability and survivors' pensioners, families with children and other low-income households are able to live in a suitable and sober housing. I am very pleased that it is this government that has ever made the biggest increase in housing aid, which is in line with the poverty action plan. For example, the Bout poison bar in the largest cities has: increased. This housing message provides a good response to the main challenges of housing policy in the next few years. I want to end by mentioning the paradox that it's because the government parties don't look at housing as a commodity, that we want to remove the tax or reduce the tax, as opposed to the left-hand side that looks at it as an investment object, and thus tax it as much as they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e637	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e640	The right still refers to the Econ report and has interpreted it in such a way that the loan schemes of the House Bank have little impact on the number of dwellings being built and that the House Bank can be built down. This report has received very strong criticism from both the construction industry, NBBL and the House Bank. The report only addresses the use of the entry credit among professional builders in the four largest cities. It's only a small part of the Bank's loan business, and it's done in a period of strong growth. Then my question to the representative of Skovholt Gitmark is: Does he still maintain that, in the context of the conclusion of the Econ report, it can be said that there is no need for the Husbank as an instrument for new construction throughout the country, and especially in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e652	There's a need for the House Bank. That's one of the reasons why the government is strengthening the House Bank. The home bank becomes a competence bank to a greater extent than it has been. The House Bank has also stated that they are very pleased with the housing announcement. We transform the support mechanism to make it a better partner both for municipalities and make it easier for them to obtain housing for disadvantaged people. It is a very important strategy in the government's investment at the Husbanken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e657	So Peter Gitmark's party is going to spend $1.8 billion. to remove the house tax. At the same time, they are not willing to go in and improve the housing support system for those who need the best, namely the lonely and couples without children. The housing aid works and is the main means of housing policy, says Peter Gitmark. He's right that it works. If we look at the statistics, we see that people with the lowest income -- over 65 years -- have a very low bout toxin load, actually down to 9 pst., while young people, who are usually lonely, have a bout toxin load of 40 pst. Does Gitmark think that to help people who have problems in the housing market, it is more accurate to give tax relief to those who own housing than it is to provide housing support to those who need it? Does he mean? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e666	The President has plans to be a little strict on the lines. The background for it is that it will be a long day's journey to night.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e669	There is no government that has strengthened the housing support scheme more than just this. We have stated that the housing aid is the most important means of housing, and we are betting on it. The problem is that it is in each budget that the economy is taken into account for the next year, and not in housing reports like this. We have got more into the housing support system than ever. We have increased the ceiling for housing in the largest cities. However, it should not be the case that individuals should be motivated to social security or to stand outside the labour market by the large amount of State transfers. Individuals must also be motivated to work, and this applies mainly to solitude and solitude with children. It goes without saying that if you're in social security, you also get housing support. But we believe it should pay to be at work, as opposed to SV, who sew cushions under the arms of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e676	I would like to commend the Government for having seen the searchlight on the support scheme and its significance, and for having taken some initiatives to strengthen the scheme. But what I'm wondering is that the government, when a first is busy with the bumps, for the first thing, doesn't want to increase it for couples without children and, secondly, doesn't want to put the search light on the many lonely-- and they become more and more of-- that's obvious wear compared to the construction costs. The dithering message was cleared five years ago, and it has been replayed over and over again. Now it seems that the Christian People's Party has new tones in today's Newspaper. Does this mean that the Right may also be willing to look at the situation of the Lone?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e685	It is a goal of this Government that people should serve to be at work. It should not be the case that low-paid people choose social security because it is a more lucrative scheme. But, of course, we need to look at all the different arrangements for public transfers, to see if the individual can get more involved in work, from, for example. social security. Lone and couples without children - at work - do not receive housing support today. I think that is a good arrangement, but of course you have to constantly assess all the arrangements you have. The housing aid is the most important instrument in our housing policy, in order to get the most into the housing market and to be able to own their own housing. It is firm, and therefore the government has supported and strengthened the housing support more than any other government. We have got more people into the housing support system, and we have raised the roof of the housing support system. It is clear, but further development of the housing aid scheme is a budgetary question, we will return to it in the budget for the next year and in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e692	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e695	The Progress Party will mainly support the future visions and guidelines of Norwegian housing policy, as proposed and described in St.meld. No 23 on Norwegian housing policy. The Progress Party thus ensures that the Government has a majority in the Stortinget for the housing policy set out in the Storingsbericht. Housing policy, as defined in the housing notification, is essentially based on current and traditional Norwegian housing policy. Thus, the present housing notification does not represent a comprehensive change in housing policy, but is essentially a continuation of the housing policy in force, with some minor adjustments in some areas. The traditional distribution of roles in housing policy, with the State as the regulatory authority, the municipalities planning and facilitating, and private as owners, builders and administrators, is stuck in the notification of housing, with a certain correction in order to allow individuals now to increase the scope for taking decisions within the framework and objectives set by the State. There is little doubt that Norwegian housing policy can be described successfully in a historical perspective. The lack of housing has been eliminated too far. The housing policy pursued in Norway over the past 50 to 60 years has produced good results for the Norwegian housing sector in terms of housing supply, housing coverage and housing quality. The course for the modern Norwegian housing policy was cancelled already during the reconstruction phase after the last world war, when it was agreed to bet on the ownership line. Today we see the positive results of the Norwegian government's early commitment to a housing policy that enabled the largest possible number of inhabitants of the country to have the opportunity to own their own housing. The result is that today private owns and manages 96 pst. of the housing stock in Norway, which is a very high private holding compared to some other countries. Private ownership contributes greatly to good maintenance and efficient management of the country’s total housing stock. The Nordics most invest a lot of time and money in having a well-stocked, well-functioning and representative dwelling. Having a good housing in a good living environment increases the quality of life and creates a safe and good social framework around one's life and life. A good dwelling is also a physical necessity in terms of the geographical location and climatic conditions of our country. If we take a quick look at the housing statistics, we see that Norway is well placed in terms of housing coverage. Today we have approx. 2 million dwellings in Norway. On average, each dwelling is about 114-115 m2, which gives 52 m2 of housing per person. the population. This is high in the international context. The number of single dwellings is 1.1 million, and single dwellings are the dominant residence in Norway. 77 pst. by households owning their own dwelling, while by 20 pst. of household rentals. The total value of Norwegian dwellings is estimated to be nearly NOK 1700 billion, while the loan debt of dwellings is about NOK 750 billion. The housing value alone represents over 80 pst. of the total private wealth of the Norwegian people. In recent years, more than 20,000 new dwellings have been built per year. years, and every year Norwegian owners of dwellings spend well over 50 billion kroner on housing. Thus, housing construction, maintenance, rehabilitation and refurbishment also have a significant employment and socio-economic impact. At the same time, Norwegian housing owners pay around 40 billion kroner in municipal fees as well as taxes and taxes to the state, thus adding significant revenues to society. In Norway, we have a largely deregulated and free housing market, where housing prices and construction volumes are mainly driven by supply and demand. The volume of new buildings varies slightly from year to year because the housing sector is affected by a number of external factors, each having an impact on demand and the supply of both new and second-hand dwellings. Rates of interest, unemployment, labour market situation, economic fluctuations, access to land, building legislation, price developments of used dwellings and patterns of relocation are among the factors determining the number of new buildings to be built each year. Whether there is a need for 17 000, 20 000 or 25 000 new dwellings per year. years, one can discuss, but to decide how many dwellings are actually to be built annually is almost impossible. The current functioning of the housing market is the supply of housing, the rate of housing construction and the number of existing dwellings in a reasonably balanced manner, although a certain imbalance can be found in the provision of housing in and around the largest cities and in some growth municipalities due to large relocations to them. However, the responsibility for increasing the rate of housing construction in press areas lies primarily with the municipalities themselves. The role and efforts of local authorities and the organisation of physical and social infrastructure are essential for a successful housing policy and balance in the housing market. The Progress Party wants the free movement of all types of residential real estate, including farm use, and therefore wishes to remove all public price regulation or housing requirements for all types of agricultural property or dwellings in coastal municipalities, in the South or wherever it may be. On 23 September 2003, the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that personal living and working conditions do not comply with EU law on the free movement of capital. The Norwegian housing system is also likely to be contrary to the Human Rights Convention, which was incorporated into Norwegian legislation in 1997. This Convention provides that each person has the right to choose his or her own place of residence. The Convention therefore conflicts completely with the Norwegian housing regime, as I at least consider it. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the Government should clarify as soon as possible the legal basis of the Norwegian Housing System in relation to both the EEA provisions on the free movement of capital and to the Convention on Human Rights. Most cities in Norway are on the coast, and the construction of attractive seafront apartment complexes has a high potential in many Norwegian cities. We are seeing a trend today where older people sell their exclusive dwelling and buy a more easy-to-use apartment in central districts. Attractive apartment complexes at the sea edge represent urban renewal, it creates good living environments, it is efficient land use, and it gives increased life satisfaction to many. And also frees the construction of attractive apartment complexes in the central strike a larger number of exclusive dwellings for sale, which can slow down the growth of housing prices for first-time settlers in the housing market. The level of prices of dwellings may appear high, and the entry ticket for first-time start-ups in the housing market may be very economical for many. Housing prices continue to rise and have increased on average by 13 pst. in one year. The national average price of single dwellings has been 1.83 million since the turn of the year. NOK, while the average price of the apartments has been SEK 1.42 million. kr. This is loud. However, price differences in the Norwegian housing market are significant, with large local and regional variations. While a single dwelling in Oslo often costs 3-4 million. kr, one can acquire an exclusive dwelling e.g. in Gamvik, Finland, for well under 50 000 kroner. However, such price variations are a natural consequence of all the factors governing the housing market and housing establishment, especially in press areas, and represent, of course, a major private economic challenge for the vast majority of people. A large housing investment is the largest investment most people usually make during their lives. If we are to succeed in reducing the growth of housing prices and creating more good and attractive housing and housing environments, we need a more liberal approach to land use for residential purposes in Norway. Restrictive land policies and housing retention often create poor living environments, and we have more than enough land to take off in Norway for housing, if we want. Local authorities must be given greater autonomy in land use and introduce a consistent yes attitude in construction matters. The entitlement of the county State to object to land-related matters must be severely limited. We have to allow people to build homes where it's attractive, like at the edge of the sea. We have more than enough shoreline in Norway, both for residential construction and for recreation. Finally, the Progress Party is a housing party with Norwegian housing owners. As a result, the party to the progress is a strong opponent of increased housing taxes and wants to reduce or abolish both the benefit tax, the property tax, the property tax, the document fee and the inheritance tax. The Progress Party does not accept that housing owners will be the next victims of the policy-making process of increasing tax revenue to the public. Since I have time for a resumé, I take it: The Progress Party promises a tough fight against increased housing taxes. We will have a yes-position in the construction process, significantly simplify planning and building legislation, have full local autonomy in land disposal, have a less restrictive land policy, introduce free sales of agricultural property and remove the obligation to live, help the homeless to the necessary extent and otherwise have a free, self-regulating and unbureaucratic housing market, free from heavy, public interference. I will take up the suggestions that the Advance Party is behind, which are included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e740	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e745	It has become so popular in these days to talk about self-regulatory markets, whether in housing or in working life. I also noticed that the representative Gitmark called it "setting at the House Bank", and that it was to be made "a competence bank". I would like to see DnB transformed into a "skills bank," and the significance it had for people's ability to borrow. The representative, Andersen, has explained the point of view of the Progress Party. He wants to get public intervention. At the same time, housing is one of the most important things for people's everyday lives. We have the opportunity to make it possible for more people to live well, including: through increased lending from the Husbank. It does not cost the State a single dollar, but gives each and every opportunity to benefit from the collateral provided by the State as a borrower, and with a lower level of interest. Why, then, does it not make sense that most people benefit from this interest advantage to a greater extent? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e752	I actually don't know if I got the whole question in this line. I might not have heard well enough after. But if we talked about the Husbank, at least the Progress Party should not deny the historical significance for the Norwegian housing sector. There, the House Bank deserves recognition because it has been important and crucial for housing in Norway. But as the Progress Party sees it today, it is not a government task to conduct ordinary lending activities in the banking market. We therefore believe that the Husbank should be liquidated in the long term, or alternatively continued as a bank for real economic difficulties in the housing market, which has difficulties in obtaining loans in the ordinary credit and banking market. Ordinary housing should preferably be financed in the private banking and credit markets. I refer in this way to the Econ report, which shows that if we had not had the Husbank, there will not be a very small number of dwellings built.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e759	I have to try to grasp almost everything I find in the housing policy of the Progress Party, which SV can agree with, and that is that we have to do something in the housing market for those who are disadvantaged. Some of those who are disadvantaged in the housing market are families with children. They can have bad advice, and we all know how important it is for families with children to feel at least some security and not have to move all the time. It is very devastating for children to have to be demolished and exchange school, kindergarten, friends and all this all the time. Therefore, SV has been very concerned that families with children should be able to live safely and get housing support when they need it - we have seen that the boute poison bar has been too low, and that this has led to families with children who have needed housing support not having received it. That's what the Progress Party has been in on before. I want an explanation for why the party isn't now. In addition, the Advance Party will not be involved in providing grants for light and heat to families with children, such as the pensioners receive. Does the Progress Party believe that families with children need less than pensioners? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e768	First, in the case of housing support, we in the Progress Party say, like all the other parties, that housing support is a rigorous, good order, which we know has a good function in the housing market, for those who need that kind of public support. With regard to the most disadvantaged - even homeless - in the housing market, the Progress Party agrees that the public has to go in and do something to help them. In the case of these housing aid schemes, interest rates have fallen significantly in recent years. In some cases, due to a fall in interest rates, the butt charges have been significantly lower. I believe that the level of housing support as it is today, for most groups this includes, is at a reasonable level. That's what our reason is - in answer to the representative's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e777	The population census in 2001 showed that there are 740,000 single-person households, students are away. There is an inseparable group, but several studies show that singles under the age of 45 are lagging behind in terms of disposable income, and this group is under-represented in respect of its own housing. In today's setting, the Centre Party and SV propose that low-income singles should be included under the support scheme. The working party has a softer proposal; they want an assessment of whether this should happen. Is there a proposal that the Progress Party may consider giving support to, or does the Progress Party believe that, in the future, only social security alone should be available for support? Support is therefore a very safe tool. Here you can contribute to the creation of a new group [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e786	It's going to be a plus in the book of the one who can stay within one minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e789	I'll try, President. It is true that for a number of years the League of the United Nations has been active in campaigning for the sole cause. Obviously, there are a lot of lonely households in Norway, and you have a point, I don't ignore it. So far, the Progress Party has not said that we will conduct some specific policy vis-à-vis lone households in Norway. To extend the housing aid scheme to the same solitude, I believe that we in the Progress Party need a discussion of the innermost part of the party. I can't answer that question. I do not believe that is a dangerous policy on the part of the Progress Party. I think, as I said before, that the housing arrangement for the groups it covers today is sufficient. We meet those who need the most housing support. I think that lonely, and we have to remember, has no other expenses that families have, so here there's probably some exaggeration in terms of the need for housing support for lonely households.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e798	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e801	First, I want to pay attention to an incursion on page 24 of this setting. There the Christian People's Party has fallen out of the Committee's comments. It says at the bottom of the page: "The members of the Committee from the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Central Party " There shall also be a Christian People's Party. The world is important to people in Norway. The building is an important framework for home and family. A good business environment is made up of people who live. The government's housing message does not represent a revolution. On the contrary, everyone acknowledges that housing policy in this country has made sense for a long time. We have achieved a very good standard of living. We live on more square meters than anyone else in Europe. We keep our housing stock at home, and we own our own housing. The last two points actually stick together. The Christian People's Party considered this to be an exception. The vision of the housing message is also to continue in the same lease, yet more tossing towards those who are struggling and have problems getting ends to meet. It is in the Christian People's Party's spirit. The government will facilitate a well-functioning housing market. Otherwise, it would just be missing. The left side, or the multiple in the setting, clearly believes that we as politicians can control without using the market in this area. Errors have occurred at an innumerable number of times. We have regulated both the price and the turnover before here in Norway, and got a black market that totally took the break of the poor, those who had the least ability to get settled. Therefore, Norway has had a deregulated market for many years, and we have better, more self-ownership and not more expensive dwellings than we can compare with. Of course, the most important thing for a healthy housing market is interest. There are many families who have improved their standard of living in the last year by between $50,000 and $100,000 because interest rates have fallen dramatically. High interest rates are devastating for all economies, not least in relation to building costs. The most important thing we can do in order to create a stable housing market is to pursue a policy that serves too low interest rates. It is not least important for District Norway, where construction costs are very often higher than the sal value of the dwelling. Low interest rates allow a person to hold the mortgage, either a cage there himself, or find that a person has to rent it out for a time, or that the municipality is renting away. It also means that the rental price in weak markets is satisfactory, and that more people can thus hesitate to invest in districts as well. It is also important to reduce the growth of construction costs. Simplifying public planning and construction management is an essential factor. The Planning and Building Act has certainly not worked according to purpose and has destroyed the building without, unfortunately, eliminating the faults and defects that he was supposed to eliminate. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that a construction price of NOK 30 000 per year. m2, which a calculator uses both in the housing construction company and in the public sector, is in spite of much of what is built on private hands. The most beautiful and most sealed house I've been inside in the last year, where there was no saving on anything, interior view at least -- that was ship's floor, brass and glass -- actually cost only 9 000 kroner per. m2 to be built. And I have a lot of these examples. At least they show that private solutions are often smart, and that public solutions in the construction sector are often expensive. The government wants to get housing for people with difficulty in the housing market. When one hears the case spokesman, and to the extent that the Labour Party, today, they are able to criticise this too. That's weird. Now it's like approx. 80 pst. own their own dwelling, and most of them are doing well. Why don't you feed the public no more against those who need it, is more than the Christian People's Party can understand. The household bank shall give priority to those who need mortgages in the districts, and where other banks may still be afraid not to regain value from mortgages in the house. The House Bank shall also give priority to those who have difficulty entering the market. It should create agreement and full agreement, because only that can we eliminate housing where it exists. Only in this way can we reach the poor, the young, the homeless, and so will we in the Christian People's Party. We need to feed society's resources to reach those who need it. Therefore, support is also a better and more targeted tool than housing supplements. Then the one who needs it gets support there he or she cages. They must not build where the building is supported. The housing add-on scheme has not had a beneficial effect either when it relates to the number of householders or to the level of rent. The Christian People's Party is concerned that municipalities must have a common responsibility for those who need help because they are without housing. There is a range of housing social instruments, such as: loans, supplements, low-deposit housing, housing support, social assistance, and these must be coordinated so that they are available to those in need of assistance. Why should the signatures get mortgages when there are bankers in line who want to lend me a loan? That's more than I can understand. The government prescribes a working prescription. He gives additional flexibility or room for action for the municipalities to actually help those who need the most. Clearly, the Christian People’s Party is pleased with that. But the housing message doesn't end there. The Bondevik government takes the aim of increasing the number of environmentally friendly and universally designed dwellings, and it was time. It is even possible to get supplements for such good ideas. That's good, because it's too difficult and too expensive to build an environmentally friendly dwelling in Norway. Therefore, only a few have heat pump or other energy technologies. This is not how it can be continued. It is particularly important that the large building blocks apply new and environmentally friendly construction methods and technologies. Equally important is universal design, that is, availability for everyone, that it should become normal and normal. The government will stimulate it. It is very important for those with one disability or another, that all the dwellings that are built take care that they too should be able to live there. It is hardly significantly more expensive to take such care from the start, and one saves conversion costs. The ageing of the population means that an increasing group of people have reduced their function. Universally designed housing, of course, means that more people can live longer. It's money to save on. This would have been done 20 years ago. Bondevik II sets a standard for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e841	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e845	When the Storting discussed housing for young people in 1999, the then committee member Erna Solberg stated that she did not have particular faith in a bet on publicly funded non-profit housing as a solution for a better rental market. The Christian People's Party, on the other hand, felt that the nocturnal and reasonable rental properties should be a bet area, and they even stated that it should be started "up to 4000-5000 more per. years in the coming years". The biggest change in the message we are discussing today is, of course, cutting the investment grant in rental homes for young people. When did the confession to the Christian People's Party that it was Erna Solberg and Right that were so right, so right at the time of the previous message, and that it was the Christian People's Party that was so wrong, then wrong with the position they took at the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e854	Many dwellings have been built with the help of the House Bank in Norway during the post-war period. It's important. It has also been important because the House Bank was able to keep a lower interest rate than other banks. That situation has turned its head on today. The fact that the interest rate is now very low, allows us to build more spacious dwellings for our own engine to a greater extent than before. So the Christian People's Party has also in this housing message taken care of the districts and those who need it more than others, those who cannot go on their own, those who are not creditworthy. Support is a much more accurate model than dwelling supplement. That's why we're putting more effort into it today. And yes, the recognition might come in at the end of the day, but we think we're on the right track. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e863	Yes, then there was no star in the book.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e866	It is quite outrageous to hear that the Christian People's Party is now more concerned with fighting for the freedom of those who will act as house sharks on the rental market than to join in fighting for a law that will protect those who have the most difficulty in the non-commercial part of the rental housing market. That is what the SV proposal has done. I want to ask the representative Apelthun Seele to explain why it is not important for the Christian People's Party to protect those who have the most difficulty. In addition, the Christian People's Party wants to continue its special policy towards lonely and couples without children, who will not receive housing regardless of how poor they are. For many of these, it will pay to get social security, because then you will get housing support, but if you have a poorly paid job, you will not get it. In addition, I also ask the representative to explain how she believes that the bet on the homeless should increase, when the government will have the grant for these housing schemes down.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e875	We want to screen those who need it the most, and we want to give support to those who need it the most. The bump hits those who need it most, where they live. Butter supplements make it build a house that people have to move to, maybe away from where they live. Then I'm quite incomprehensible that the SV believes that the Christian People's Party will leave everyone to the house sharks. It's not relevant at all. We want to have enough dwellings and thus reasonable dwellings for those who need it. It is a problem that we have to solve in both districts and central districts. We need enough plots and faster clear plots to build enough dwellings. Then rent will also go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e882	I notice that Anita Apelthun Seele in his ten minutes did well for what the Christian People's Party prioritizes in housing policy, without naming the large group of single-person households with a single word. It has been interesting in my time at Stortinget to follow the Christian People's Party in that area. They have repeatedly written reading articles about how busy they are of those who live on their own, the extra costs they have, how they are underrepresented when it comes to owning their own housing, and how important it is to ensure that their own structures are worn out. So they do nothing in practice, and they vote for all the suggestions. How does this work out?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e889	The singleness is spreading. We can also see that in today's newspaper. It's 740,000 who live alone. The difference between singles and single-parents is that singles can often work more to cope with their building costs, while single parents have more problems with it and are more dependent on the bumps. The government's policy has been to make sure that we also get smaller apartments, apartments that single people can enjoy, and that will be cheaper overall because there are fewer square meters. We want a differentiated housing market that also takes care of the singles. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e898	That's where that star went. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e901	The market does not take social interest. At the end of the spring session, the Municipal Committee of the Stortinges deals with four issues in which the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party agree on a policy for the correction of market forces and more public efforts for the community than the current government stands for. Both St.meld. No 19, A well-functioning labour market, Ot.prp. No 77 on measures to be taken against social dumping, the municipal scheme for 2005 and the case today, St.meld. No 23, on housing policy, is an example of that. The housing message is a follow-up to the Housing Selection. The Wibe selection was reduced by the Bondevik I government and concluded that housing policy should continue to be an important part of welfare policy. The selection makes a number of suggestions to strengthen the public effort to secure more of a good housing for your owner or for rent. The Government's response is a strong tightening of housing policy, which included: NBBL and large construction companies to report that housing policy is more than social policy. The Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV are united on ten important points for a public housing policy. Let me then name some of them; I don't have time to go into everyone. We still believe that the Husbank should be the most important housing policy tool. We want larger loan frameworks. We want the House Bank to continue to be able to give advice as well as to make demands. The fact that the Husbank makes sure every year to get a certain number of dwellings by sober standard out on the market is going to continue. The house bank is important both as a longterm asset and as a risk taker where other banks do not set up, and the House Bank is open to other banks under its terms. The House Bank is also important for short-term policy. The central party wants the Husbank to have this role also in time to come. We want a strong increase in the construction of non-commercial rental and low-injection buildings. The goal there is 3,000-4 000 and 1,000, respectively, and we want from 1,000 to 1,200 student housing per. years. We want to strengthen the bust. It will also the Government, but under the terms of the escalating of the housing supplement, which today goes to rental properties. The centre party places the search light on the one-person household. It's a group that's been slowing down. It's a group that has many different income limits internally. We thought it was good for the government to focus on the families of children, but in no way does the government take into account the fact that there are so many lonely people with low incomes who have problems getting into the housing market. The anti-aliasing message was completed five years ago. It has not yet been possible to obtain measures to improve the situation of individuals who are not on social security. Then to the housing supplement. The centre part, the working part and the SV will increase both the total frames and the measurement of the housing supplement. We know that rental homes are needed for many of them, not only for refugees, but also for many other people, for students, for those who move because of work, and for those who don't want to own. The individual-right housing supplement seems to have given us a very good device in the plural proposal. This will mean that, in total, there will be far more means, which could mean that even more people can get a housing supplement. This supplement may also be increased to reduce the costs of support and other support schemes for the same persons. The 1999 Equalisation Communication concluded that it is necessary to strengthen social housing policy as a strategy to address differences and poverty. We are particularly pleased that we took the initiative in the Bondevik I government for measures and projects for the homeless, who have now been strengthened and got the title Project homeless. But we're absolutely sure that there's a need for reinforcement in that area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e922	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e925	The centre party, together with SV, believes that there should be a target of 10 pst. the housing market shall consist of non-commercial rental dwellings. My question to the representative Meltveit Kleppa is: Is this in line with the central party's policy, which is known for protecting property rights, cf. The law of Santa Claus that we have for treatment in Stortinget now, or is this a line break? The centre party will have a separate tax deduction for one-person households without any income requirement. Is this good distribution policy, or is there any other reason for it? The centre party wants expenditure on light and heat in the housing stock to apply also to families with children, as is the case for old-age pensioners and disabled persons. My question is then: wouldn't it be better and less bureaucratic if that were part of the total housing allowance?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e935	The centre party is realistic in its policy. On the one hand, we thought it was very important to exercise ownership. I'm glad Signe Eye has registered it. We are very surprised that the Labour Party supports the proposal that is now in the Storting when it comes to Santa Claus. At the same time, we take inward all the evidence that there is a need to strengthen the rental market. As I said in my post, there are many groups who want to rent a dwelling, and who need it, and then the public has to settle down. In the case of tax deductions for one-person households, it is a fact that one-person households have a lower income than others, and justice should provide a deduction for this group. We've tried with an income limitation before and not supported it. Light and heat and in what way it is dissolved-- [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e944	We wonder, but we can get an answer to that later. The next line is from Anita Apelthun Seele, who has a line on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e949	The replica is probably on behalf of the Christian People's Party. As Minister of Social Affairs, the representative Meltveit Kleppa had a great sense of support and topping up the support schemes for those who were most disadvantaged in society. The dithering message was an example of that. It followed the wise words of the poet: "I think it's shocking, that it needs the best to help it, as it needs the most." Now the Center Party all of a sudden means something else. About 80 pst. of the household in Norway owns its own dwelling, and even more people manage to do so, housing policy instruments, such as the House Bank, shall not be pointed at, but be general. Then logically it gets smaller to "it," which it needs most. The housing is important to everyone. Why won't the Center Party concentrate on helping those who are in difficulty? In addition, if the House Bank is to act as a counter-cyclical tool, as it also says from the Centre Party, shall he set aside in good time altogether?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e963	Contrary to the Christian People's Party, the Central Party stands at the time of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party when it came to the House Bank, both in the early 1990s and when we came into government together. We are on the policy of the Bondevik I Government when it applies to the House Bank, and when it is an active public effort to ensure that housing policy is not only a social policy but also a part of welfare policy. There the Christian People's Party has unfortunately changed its view. In addition, contrary to the Christian People's Party, the Central Party has nothing to say about $12 billion in tax bills, where 10.5 of them is for those who think the most in this country. On the contrary, we have a strong desire, in the light of the current situation in our country, to fight against differences on all fronts and use some of the means to secure more difficult times both with bumps and in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e970	It is expensive to live in many places in Norway, and many Norwegian owner-occupiers are concerned with housing costs, housing costs. Norwegian owners of dwellings actually pay approx. NOK 40 billion in municipal fees, government taxes and housing taxes. We have property taxes, property taxes, property taxes, document taxes, inheritance taxes and some other housing-related taxes. Nevertheless, there are those who claim that housing taxes are low in Norway and that there is room to increase taxes on real estate. Then my question is: will the Senterpartiet work to ensure that the housing tax on private dwellings in the future will not be the new tax item of the state? Or is it just farm and agricultural property that is to have low taxes and taxes in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e977	Torbjørn Andersen puts the search light on a very important theme. From the centre party's side, it's so that we clearly believe that today's taxation of housing is not fair. We want to exempt dwellings from standard taxation. We've defined it closer, but I can't go into it right now. But we don't want, like the Progress Party, that no matter how big a base there is, and how many carnapps, additions, builds and other investments made in a dwelling, one is going to be exempt from tax. Then we want to step down and reduce the document fee, and we also want the municipalities to have the opportunity to print taxes for a time in an area, as an alternative to property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e984	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e987	Although housing policy in Norway has been largely successful, so that most of us live in a good and partly very good housing, and most of them own their own housing, it is still a piece of time until we reach the goal that everyone should be able to dispose of a good housing in a good housing environment. It is serious that many young families have problems finding a home at a price that they are able to pay. Even more serious is the fact that some people do not have access to a good dwelling at all. This is why the Labour Party has repeatedly proposed a wide range of measures to improve the housing situation of young people and economically disadvantaged people. We believe that there is a need for three measures: we need to build more housing we need to build cheap rental homes for youth we need to make housing cheaper for those who have poor finances The most important thing to prevent price-fixing of dwellings is that more needs to be built. The government makes a serious mistake when they want to weaken the House Bank as a tool to build more dwellings. If there are too few dwellings, some city will raise the prices to secure housing for itself and theirs. Those affected are those who are unable to follow the price break, young people and economically disadvantaged. Loans in the House Bank are one of the most important means of sustaining the new building. Therefore, the Workers' Party will offer more opportunities to obtain cheap mortgages. It doesn't cost one dollar. However, increased new construction also requires other measures. Municipalities must produce more residential areas. Therefore, we propose a state grant to municipalities where there is a great deal of construction, and we suggest that municipalities get cheap loans for the purchase of land. One of the main problems in the housing market is that young people do not find housing at a price they can handle. That's why I want to go so far as to say that it's shocking that the government will remove the support for the construction of rental homes. On the contrary, the Labour Party will build several cheap youth rental homes. In order for housing to be cheap, we want the state to grant a grant of 30 pst. the costs of purchase or construction. In this way, we also eliminate a substantial part of the discrimination with regard to the state’s assistance to those who own dwellings instead of renting. The rest must be given as a cheap loan in the House Bank, which is paid back over 50 years. But we also make some demands. The rent shall be based on the cost of operating the dwelling. It shall not be possible to collect any profit. In addition, we want to give the housing laws the opportunity to offer dwellings with low deposits. At the same time, we will make it easier for young people to establish themselves in housing that they own. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants the start-up loan scheme to be developed in the sense that it can be granted to all those who wish to establish themselves in a owner-occupied dwelling. We have to make the housing cheaper for those who have bad finances. Therefore, the Workers' Party will significantly strengthen housing support. Children’s families are the group that today has the weakest help through housing support. Therefore, we will specifically strengthen housing support for families with children by increasing the income limit. It is one of the most targeted measures for disadvantaged people that has been proposed so far. Renting housing is also important for people with poor finances. That is why we propose that the state should be able to give up to 60 pst. grants to such dwellings. The working party will end the use of the hospit. It's a bad place to live, and it's a very expensive offer. By developing good housing services using state housing grants and housing support, municipalities will also be able to save significant amounts that should be used to provide social follow-up and a more meaningful social life to residents. Today's setting shows clear dividing lines in Norwegian housing policy. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are united on the main lines of an alternative housing policy in relation to the one presented by the Government in the notification. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre want offensive policies to build more cheap homes, several cheap youth rental homes and to deploy measures for economically disadvantaged people. The Right Party and the Advance Party want a more market-based system: weaken the role of the House Bank, cut back support to build cheap rental homes for young people. The new thing is that the Christian People's Party now supports this line, unlike the positions previously expressed by the Christian People's Party in dealing with similar issues in the Stortinget. A more offensive housing policy is needed. The majority of the Committee, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre have drawn up guidelines for such an initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1026	I agree with Signe Eye when she says that housing policy is more than social policy. That's also what this housing message is about. It is about the whole and the different aspects of housing policy, where housing policy is equally concerned with ensuring that the frameworks around the housing market are so good and functioning that most of us do without any extra measures. Therefore, the Government has provided three different strategies in the message. The first housing policy strategy is to facilitate well-functioning housing markets, where most people are going to manage themselves. There we believe that we have received broad agreement from the Committee in the main areas, namely reducing the growth of housing prices and launching cooperation projects for the construction industry to increase productivity in the construction industry. I'm going to follow this up to the industry in the near future to establish this cooperation. And to the representative Signe Eye -- this is actually a strategy to get a more reasonable bout poison. Our starting point is that we have too high a cost of building homes to allow young people to get into the market. Then we have to go on the cost side. We can't just go on the grant side loose, but we have to go on the cost side to find measures that make us get lower in price. We also need to reduce the processing time, and I refer to a number of actions taken in relation to the Planning and Building Act, and we are working on several attempts related to it. Then it is important that we have an attitude to how we prevent the major fluctuations, counteracting the major fluctuations in the housing market. The major fluctuations in the housing market are primarily hampered by a responsible economic policy that ensures that interest rates remain stable, not changing so rapidly. And what would have been much worse: you can't take out the housing market as the most sensitive and most important market in Norway in terms of how the effects on the family economy are, because of changing economic conditions in our society. You can't take it away and say that it can be handled within a less expensive housing policy. It is actually a consequence of economic policy. Then it is important to see that cooperating with the market, making it easier to establish homes quickly when the economic situation is better, is actually an important strategy for building more dwellings in the future as well. I am absolutely sure that if we get into a really bad economic situation in the future, the House Bank will also lend 95 pst. of the number of dwellings being built - there will be only a much lower number of dwellings. But our challenge is: does it help to aggravate or improve the crisis in the housing market in such a situation? There were a number of individual markets at the beginning of the 1990s where the continued construction of the House Bank contributed to aggravating the debt crisis for individuals because the housing market was unnaturally low compared to being able to build dwellings at all. Then it's wrong to have a one-sided strategy in view of that. The second important strategy we have is to get more people who are disadvantaged to get housing. I would like to say that, unlike Heikki Holmås, I am very positive and pleased with the results of the residence unemployment survey. So it's going to be 1,000 less. Oslo Municipality has good reason to be proud of the job they have done. In Oslo, there have been 1 300 fewer homeless people during the census - after a nine-time job, not least led by current mayors, former councillor for health and social affairs Erling Lae, to a lot of criticism from individual parties in the Stortinget. But it has worked with the focus they have had on creating a strategy for the homeless, which has been followed up, and this is now being transferred to very many other municipalities. It is important to say that we are not just going to build homes for people who are homeless. We also need to bring out those who are in poverty, and where housing is a problem, out of that poverty. That's one of the reasons we've made the choices regarding housing support, rather than support for rental homes. Staying, staying in a subsidised rental home at low prices, means that there is a greater risk that you will be stuck in a poverty trap, that you will remain in a situation where you cannot move in the housing market. It's important that we give people a decent life, they must also be free to choose where they want to live. I am particularly surprised that the majority of the Stortinget did not agree with the changes in the personal housing allowance. What you do here is to make sure that people who have had a hard time still have a hard time instead of giving them an opportunity to put the difficult years behind them, give them a career in the future within the usual housing market. I don't think we in today's world should say that the poor, the ones with problems, remain in an inequality, which reproduces itself repeatedly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1051	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1055	In today's Evening Item, there is a notice that the Storting wishes to change the guidelines for the individual grant, so that the grant will no longer be depreciated, but will be paid upon transfer to a new owner. That's not new. This is the case in the case of grants for establishment today, but grants intended to meet the needs of a person for accommodation adaptation are not repayable today. But if he moves to an institution or people fall from it, it's not unreasonable to demand a refund of the grant. A refund must, of course, be reasonably managed, and we have confidence that the municipalities will show good, local discretion and find a practical solution to it in each case. There shall be no smaller amount. This will be positive for the municipalities. You can spend the same money multiple times, and more people get a grant. So you get more for the money. It's in the Right election campaign material. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1065	No, I don't agree with that. This is the recipe for poor people to continue to be poor in our society, for those who have managed to get over a threshold and into the usual housing market to remain in one type of housing, and which means that their barriers to having a housing career, to move on, are getting higher, because then they have to repay this subsidy. To the question of what happens when they die, I want to say that in terms of the age profile of this type of grant, it's typical that younger adults get it. There's very low mortality in the group we're talking about. It is not that this is a question of a support that is primarily given to older people, where it could be reasonable to do so. We have considered this proposal. We have also received this proposal. But we said that we lock the very difficult reception groups in a situation that makes them difficult to move. They are to a greater extent spell-bounded with the solution found. I don't think that's worth our welfare community, and I'm very surprised at what parties stand together on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1074	Governments began to worry about the growth of housing prices. So the housing prices have increased 13 pst. only in one year. It's far above the general price rise. Strong price rises in housing and declining productivity in the construction industry in recent years have become a housing policy challenge of dimensions. I believe I can see that declining productivity in the construction industry has come after the new planning and building law was implemented in 1997. It created enormously much more bureaucracy, slow procedures in the municipalities, and it resulted in significantly increased paperwork for the craftsmen. Craftsmen today spend a lot more time filling in and dealing with forms than swinging the hammer, as they should have done. Does the Council see that there can be a link between the planning and building laws, which have created less competition, and the declining productivity of the housing market? Does the Council agree that the Planning and Building Act can be part of the explanation that we are now seeing higher prices and lower productivity in the construction industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1083	There is no doubt that the implementation of the Planning and Building Act resulted in some cost increases immediately. There were two things happening about simultaneously. One was the changes in the Planning and Building Act, and the other was the changes in the Technical Building Regulations. Both contributed to an increase in the level of costs by building at that time. I have no reason to believe that it is the Planning and Building Act that still makes this spiral more active. That there was a contribution to the cost increase at that time is correct, but there is no reason to assume that this is what is behind a further increase. It's a combination for the moment, of course, with the market. Every time interest rates go down, prices are often going to be higher, because people can compete more about the best homes, even though we see that there's a very big difference. In addition, there is currently a "mismatch" in some of the housing markets compared to what has been built in recent years. In Oslo it has been built too large. There would have been a need for smaller dwellings. But at one point, all those who built out said that it was the medium-sized dwellings that were needed. The truth was that there were smaller dwellings for the first-time settlers that were most needed. Then you also get a "mismatch" in the market, which therefore causes a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1090	The most dramatic thing from the municipalities that have problems getting homes for their homeless, and those who have problems getting homes for their refugees and other disadvantaged people, is the reduction in the subsidy for cheap rental homes, from a maximum of 60 pst. up to 20 pst, contained in the notification, with notice of further deceleration and an increase in housing aid from 70 pst. to 80 pst. measurement. Calculations from Bergen and several other cities show that in order to make rental housing projects pay off with the new model, i.e. to go to zero, you have to increase the rental of dwellings, so that it is above the rent of the crowd in the housing market. It is above what will strictly be allowed to take away from people who live in the dwelling for a long time. Does the Minister of State think it is right that, in order to finance rental homes, you have to have illegal high rents?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1097	So we're going to make two changes to the housing notification about the housing allowance. With regard to the rental side, we say that in the long term we believe that it should be stepped down and removed for the benefit of the other housing products, and that in the short term we need to make a certain change to ensure that we get a higher housing support. Our calculations have shown that today we really pay twice for the same thing. First we give the municipalities grants to build a rental home, then they take the rent that covers their costs, and then we pay 70 pst. of the bout poison in the housing support for the same. Then we've actually paid twice. It is more neat that the grant goes over the housing aid. It provides access to purchase dwellings in the second-hand market, in which most refugees are settled. Most homeless people are settled through the second-hand market, and in fact also part of normal rental conditions, where the municipality does not buy the dwelling but where it mediates a rental relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1102	I have to follow up the representation of the Council of State on the individual housing charge. It is true that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are united to strengthen it. In order to ensure more disabled people, drug addicts and other difficult-to-use people, we want to increase the size of our homes, and we want to increase the size of our homes. I have to make sure the Council of State says that it is in the setting that the demand for a refund should be preceded by more detailed guidelines. It also states that individuals should not be prevented from re-assessing re-evaluations of re-entrys when moving and selling. So my question will be: Does the Council of State really think that the government's model and the government's framework ensure more difficult-going housing, or does it see that if the majority in the committee had been successful, would more actually have been secure?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1107	I don't think there's any difference between the majority and the minority's ability to get a dwelling. The question is what happens after you have received that dwelling, lived there for quite a long time and has moved on in life and will do something new. Let's take an example, and let's hope that we get some of these happy stories: a heavy drug addict who finally gets on detoxification, gets a home through the Housingless Project, gets housing grants to own it in order to be able to cope, gets into a job, but not a high-paid job, experiences having children and needs more space. If he had originally received NOK 200,000 in grants in a very difficult economic situation, in order to move on to a new dwelling that might cost NOK 500,000 more than the one he has, he had to have NOK 700,000 more to do, because the majority said he would have to repay NOK 200,000. It's actually an increase in poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1112	I record that the Council of State is making something unilaterally the majority's comment on housing allowances. Housing allowances may be granted in relation to economically disadvantaged persons, but housing allowances may also be justified in the need for accommodation adaptation. Grants which have such a basis shall be able to meet a person’s need for adaptation, so as not to move to an institution, and to be adapted as necessary. But of course, it is not necessarily meant to subsidize the dwelling as such. I record that there may be different intentions underlying the same scheme. I guess it might be appropriate for the Council of State to give an explanation of the Storting before implementation, for example. in the budget proposal, on ways to do so. Here there are very different groups you're facing, and I guess that might be an appropriate way to do it. Nor has it ever been the intention of the majority to repay small amounts. There are different types of repayments within the different parts of the scheme. So one way to think about it might be to come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1121	I would like to come back to Stortinget with a statement of the consequences and how this proposal that seems to be adopted later today can be practised. I think that's a good solution, because maybe you haven't discussed well enough how this works. The example, for example: in the previous speeches by the rapporteur on urban renewal, the Government considers that the grant should not be granted to the type of grant, but that a housing grant in the future should be for the disadvantaged and those with disabilities who need special adaptation. I also want to encourage the Committee to take a small study of the treatment of interest-free loans by the municipality of Bergen. In fact, this scheme will be transformed into a non-interest-rate loan scheme with the system derived from the majority. If you go in and look at it, you'll see many tragic fates. When you tried to get the loans back, not least at a time when you were replacing dwellings, the problems became quite large for some people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1128	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1134	I ask for the floor, among others. to correct a bug in the configuration. It is at the top of the first column on page 32, and it concerns the extension of the housing stock. It should not say "the income requirement for all households", but "the funding requirement", which was also what I said in my main post. There are several things here that we are not supported by the minority in the Chamber, but by the majority of the Committee. But there is also something I want to address that we from SV have brought forward as new ideas in the housing market, and as we had thought it would be exciting to go further rounds with. One relates to fixed interest rates. It is a question of whether it would not have been beneficial for the Norwegian community that a greater proportion of mortgages in this country were linked to fixed-rate loans. The benefits of this are pointed out in a dissertation from Erling Røed Larsen, who works in the SSB, who says that the fluctuations in housing prices are less in those countries that have had high fixed interest rates. In Norway, we have a high level of floating interest rates, and we have also had extremely high fluctuations, in fact the fourth largest increases in the level of housing prices during the 1980s and 1990s, as pointed out in the location of the housing committee. It is true that if you bought a dwelling in 1987, you had to wait until 1999 before the dwelling was really worth the same thing. If we had a greater stability in the housing market, it would lead to greater security for people who during that period will actually have to sell. We want to ask the House Bank to go further into this, and I know that it will open it up in the housing notice. We would have thought of it as a community good if you had gained more stability in this area. The second area is that we are proposing a new law for non-commercial rental properties. Some of the points that have been made both from the government council and from the government fraction of the adjustment are that it is not necessarily ensured that the housing allowance remains in rental dwellings. One of the reasons is that the housing allowance is written down over a twenty-year period. Another reason is that you do not go in and check the price. By having a law on non-commercial rental properties, which is available in Sweden, Denmark and Finland, and which provides guidelines on how to control this and ensure that the housing allowance remained, I see that the government would achieve its objectives. We would be happy on the SV's side, and we think it would have benefited society. I would like to thank you for a good debate in this round. This is a question we'll come back to on later occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1147	Would Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa also have the word for a three-minute post? She does, even though the president seems that once the members of the committee have conducted a debate with full lines, most things should have been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1150	I should only comment on an area at the end. That's the question of the individual housing allowance. I thought it was a very good arrangement. In the succession between Schjøtt-Pedersen and the Council of State there was a few that a dialogue continues in this area. I would like to say again that what is the main difference between the Labour Party, SV and the Central Party and the Government's proposal and the Government's appeal point, is that we want a larger framework and a larger measure of subsidies. We actually mean that it could mean that the Council's example, this drug addict, could have a greater chance of getting a more decent dwelling, and could also have the possibility of taking the supplement with it. But now we're going to have a new round on this, and all of the sides look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1157	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3254]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1174	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are dealt with as a whole - and consider it to be adopted. [[See page 3256]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1203	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted. Before the debate starts, the President will draw attention, as in the previous case, to the fact that the President will be very careful to observe the speaking time, including on the lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1216	State power is synonymous with an industry and an industry that has evolved from the small, and is a symbol of industrial development. State power is representative of an industry that provides us with social benefits that we cannot be ahead of. State power is the largest power producer in Norway and among the three largest in the Nordic region. State power is state-advised, which it should also be in the future. Since Statkraft is Europe's second largest hydropower producer, it is natural and important to focus on further developments in the company. Statkraft SF has a vision of being a leader in Europe in environmentally friendly energy, where creating values for owners, customers and society is important. In order to achieve these visions and objectives, it is important to facilitate the existence of State power with the same framework conditions as the other market players, so that power resources can be used as efficiently and commercially as possible. We therefore support the proposal that the State enterprise be passed on as a parent company in the group, which is otherwise organised according to a group model where production and network operation, etc. are made up of separate limited liability companies. This quickly brings me to what the Christian People's Party believes is important in connection with State power, ownership, ownership arrangements and the possibility of growth and development. The Christian People's Party believes that Norwegian ownership of Statkraft as the largest producer is important, both today and in the future. The Christian People's Party does not want any privatisation and no stock market introduction, but we want an active and committed state ownership with an organisation of the enterprise that is optimal in relation to this and that at the same time facilitates and ensures efficient and commercial operation. The Christian People's Party wants a clear Norwegian anchoring in the company to secure national control and develop a competence environment. This is also important because the pre-trade developments in liberalisation and deregulation have gone so fast and have resulted in major structural changes. This case is a continuation and concreteisation of what was mentioned in the St.meld setting. No 22 for 2001-2002, A smaller and better state ownership. When it comes to the organisation of state ownership of the resources in Statkraft, we are of the opinion that these have changed over time in the course of general social development. This does not mean that we do not have my state ownership and grip important in an international competitive situation. In this competitive situation, it will be important that Statkraft is organised in a well-known form. That's exactly what the group model is. This model provides flexibility while providing internal management and control benefits. It is also important to point out that a group model is natural in relation to the EU’s requirements for activities that are both competitively active and monopolistic. The problem of homelessness is important, but pending the selection process, it is better for Statkraft SF to have the same framework conditions and organisational form as its competitors. This has been asked by the renting in Statkraft, and they get a clarification on this today. When dealing with major gains realised at power plant sales, the entire Committee has agreed that these gains are excluded from the calculation of dividends. This is very important in relation to building under the care of the enterprise. When it comes to the dividend policy that has been pursued, it has not given Statkraft the greatest possible degree of perseverance and stability. It doesn't have its background in a lack of will or understanding the situation, but it's just as full, there's a broad majority in the Stortinget that, year after year, has decided a significantly higher yield than planned. This is something we all have to take inwards, we all have our "equal good." So it's less interesting to hear articles about the distribution of debts. That there are now multiple numbers that the Storting asks the Government to base its share law on its normal rules when determining dividends from Statkraft SF, I think I'm okay. In the case of the proposal that Statkraft pay a document fee in accordance with the normal law, the entire Committee has taken the view that the document fee imposed on it by the reorganisation of Statkraft should be compensated for by a corresponding amount deducted from the basis of dividends after tax in the current year. So to possibly the hall of axles in a future State power. The proposition reads as follows: "The government opens up State power to participate in the further restructuring of the power market in Europe through industrial solutions, and where the State is no longer the sole owner." The Proposition does not contain any powers, and the sale of axles in a future State power shall not take place without prior approval of the Sale by the Storting. Any merger involving State power shall also be dealt with by the Stortinget. There's a lot of commitment in the matter of State Power, and that's good. Nevertheless, some of these arguments have been used. From the SV's point of view, an attempt has been made to postpone the treatment, without me seeing as a case-speaker other reasons for it than an expressed hope that the Christian People's Party can change its position. But the Christian People's Party is fully behind today's attitude. When it comes to the Workers' Party, it's a little hard to find the thread in their attitude to State power. We know that the Labour Party in the government position has previously worked on thoughts of cooperation with other actors, while one is now taking a great distance from it and exaggerating the effects of this proposal, which is only going on a transformation into AS without the following powers. I am pleased that today we have been given the main principle of porting, so that State power can conduct profitable production and trade in renewable and environmentally friendly energy, and that there is also an opportunity to operate activities that are naturally related to this. I think we've found a good balance where this is taken care of, while at the same time we have a good government grip on it all. In the case of Document No: 8:75, it seeks to assess a proposal to secure the development and growth of regional power companies by allowing access to increased public equity. There are many companies before the Norwegian power supply today. Most of these are public eight, either by direct ownership of State power, indirectly by State power or by municipalities and county municipalities. At the same time, there have been major structural changes in the market over the last ten years, which has gained much from the role these power companies play in the business of that region. It is beyond doubt that these companies have much to say for the region in which they are located when it relates to the value, turnover and number of additions. It will be very important to facilitate the further growth of these power companies in the future, but the instruments show that we disagree. In Norway, public ownership is already very extensive. When it comes to the situation of water power resources, it shows that about 85 pst. Today you are eight of the public. Many municipalities are called owners of power plants, but others have also chosen to prioritize the resources for other purposes. Nevertheless, large state ownership becomes its direct or indirect ownership of smaller power companies. When we then also take into account that the state wants more to separate ownership roles from the task of sectoral policy, regulation and supervisory authority in order to create greater clarity around and distance between the state's ownership role on the one hand and the state's different authority roles on the other, this shows that there are a lot of factors involved in an assessment of the regional power plants' situation. It is therefore too tight to look at the possibilities of accessing increased public capital when possible solutions are to be found on the table. Against this background, the Government Party will reject the proposal to assess a distribution in order to ensure the development and growth of regional power companies by providing opportunities for increased public capital. From my point of view, I would like the Ministry on its own initiative to assess whether relevant adjustments may be relevant, such as: opening up existing fund reserves to engage in the energy sector. Finally, I take up the minority proposals in the setting on which the government party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1278	The representative Olaf Gedrem has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1283	First, I want to warn the case spokesperson and everyone else against defending their own policy of disseminating incorrect information about what others have been working on. So get to the point. It is true that for the last two years, State power has been exposed to very changing framework conditions. The situation has been very difficult to predict, and in many ways, it can well be said that State power has been reduced to a dairy for the state. It's also true that part of the foundation of the government's party to join an AS is to align them with the framework conditions they compete with. But what primarily distinguishes Statkraft from the others is dividend policy. And as far as I can see, the government will still have a dividend policy of at least 75 pst, while the ones they compete with have a dividend of 20 to 50 pst. I wonder if Gedrem can justify this better. It is also said that Statkraftsaka must return to Stortinget if it is to be appropriate to sell axles or to conclude a merger. And my question is, what will the Christian People's Party vote for then?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1292	Olav Aksensen spent only 20 seconds giving the relatively uplifted, unilateral, caricatured debate that had been before the Great Britain debate today. I just quoted the replicator when he said that it was an expression that a person went against privatization, which I thought was not true. When it comes to dividend policy, if the majority proposal is adopted today, there will be a case between the owner and the board. Finally, it is determined in the setting that if it becomes applicable with certain property changes in Statkraft, they should be submitted for Size. I am so glad that the Workers' Party took part in the comment that makes it firm, so there's a wide plurality behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1299	The Progress Party has its own proposal on the partial privatisation and listing of State power when we have a solution on an owner-neutral decline. However, we support the Government's proposal in a subsidiary way, and we will give tribute to the rapporteur, who has dealt with and dealt with this matter very well. But I demand consistency from the Christian People's Party. On the contrary, they say no to bring in private owners when possible at a later stage, but in the case of sub-privatisation and stock exchange listings, for example. by Statoil and Hydro, Christian People's Party has been positive. All the studies show that this has created dynamism and development in this part of the Norwegian energy sector, so I feel that here it is about how to define the inheritance silver. What is the difference in principle for the Christian People's Party when you say yes to private partnership in the case of Norwegian Socket, but say on the contrary no in the case of Statkraft and that part of the energy sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1308	I would first like to thank the Advance Party for having secured multiple numbers for the most important points in the Government's proposal when it relates to State Power's future. We appreciate that very much, and we thank you for your cooperation. When we object to a partial privatisation or rejection of this, it is primarily because this case involves a conversion of an SF into an AS. We keep the SF as well, but we transform a lot of Statkraft's operations into an AS. We feel that the time is still not in place to give the signals that the opposition has given us the impression that we should give today - that we should go in for partial privatisation and stock market presentation of Statkraft. That is not the case. When it comes to scepticism, it's something because water power is an eternal energy, unlike the oil, which is one-time energy. That's why we're very afraid that others will have access.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1315	I record that the spokesman for the Christian People's Party is grateful for the good cooperation with the Advancement Party. I am not so sure that the trust elected around Norway is so happy that it is the Progress Party that is the foremost partner of the Christian People's Party in this matter. I met many of them, and they would have preferred that they had looked on the left and cooperated with, among other things. SV. I have a question for Gedrem. Gedrem tried to say that the quote I now read was not so serious: "The government opens up State power to participate in the further restructuring of the power market in Europe through industrial solutions where the State is no longer the sole owner." I have to ask Gedrem: does that mean that it's the Government minus the Christian People's Party it's going to be here? Or does that mean the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1327	Of course, I am with the Government and government parties behind the message and end up with the proposals that are there. I used that quote in my introduction, but I found that the time is not in today to go further on such speculations, such as that. the replicator and other party have been involved in strengthening the debate we have had, including: as a result, trustees in Statkraft have become nervous. We must try again and again to refute the arguments used by the opposition party together with SV and the Workers' Party, that this is just a very small step, which will automatically lead to a disposal or at least a strong reduction in public entries and control of Statkraft. It's a problem we've had. That's why I spent a little time at my introduction clarifying what kind of debt actually is. The challenges we face in the future, we get to deal with them when they come. The Christian People's Party is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1332	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1336	"Myopian" is a word that professional economists use to characterize a decision that does not take into account long-term effects. We could read that in an article in Today's Business Thursday, June 10. The installation was written by Professor Lars Thue at the BI School of Commerce. He used the word "myopian" to describe today's government's proposal to reorganize Statkraft. In 1936 the Stortinget was foresight. They voted against a proposal by Minister of Finance, Adolf Indrebø, in the government of Johan Nygaardsvold, to sell non-governmental power stations - a sensible majority in the accumulation of time. It is probably also the last time a government council from the Workers' Party has proposed to sell state power plants. In fact, I have read in some newspaper posts from the right-hand side of Norwegian politics that Olav Akselsen at the time he was an oil and energy minister should have wanted something like this. The same suggested also the case-rapporteur, Olav Gedrem, in his post today. But since Olav Akselsen is in the hall today, he can answer the right-hand claims. I think we'll once and for all have this canceled. Then go to the specific matter. Many around Norway are concerned that there are certain resources that should be kept on their hands, and the power is such a resource. The commitment we have experienced in this matter bears witness to it. Although the noise has not been deafening, it will probably be the day one tries to sell shares - something that has not yet been proposed. A conversion from SF to AS is, in our opinion, a clarification for a future sale. From the Labour Party we have been quite clear on this matter. Our 2002 national meeting said in what was our platform for local elections in 2003, that the Labour Party will: "Maintain societal governance in key sectors, inter alia, by ensuring the right of repatriation and refusing to sub-privatisation or the sale of State power and State Forest". This is the starting point for the position we have taken in the matter we are dealing with today. Then someone could say, but there is no suggestion of either partial privatisation or sale in the proposition. That is correct, but there is a good portion of arrangements and notice of possible sales there. Already in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 22 for 2001-2002, A smaller and better state ownership, the Government announced that this case would come. Already then they said about State Power: "An initiative will be taken to transform the company into a limited liability company. The government will be open to industrial solutions involving State power, and where the State will no longer be the sole owner." This is also repeated in the proposition we are dealing with today. The majority of the Committee, however, put forward the following proposals: "There shall be no sale of shares in a future State Power AS without prior approval of the sale by Stortinget. Any merger in which Statekraft AS is involved shall also be dealt with by the Stortinget." That's good, but who can guarantee that it's not sold to private? No one. It will depend on the bulk of the population -- the party of progress, the right, the left and the Christian party. And if I know the right-hand side right, they'll be quick to approve such a sale. Christian People's Party I am more uncertain about. Otherwise, this is a weird thing. Who wants to negotiate the purchase of shares that they are not sure about getting bought? Is this an attempt by the Christian People's Party to sue the pill? In that case, this is a very thin sugar layer, and the pill inside is all the more bitter. Another important part of this proposition is the dividend policy, where the Government of the Proposition says: "The Ministry will in the future assume that the owner will require a relatively high dividend [[upper quartile]] The best thing to say about this proposal is that it is at least predictable. The problem for, among others: Government power is that we have used dividends as a means of budgeting here on the Storting, perhaps without carefully considering the needs of the company - that concerns us all. The government of Stoltenberg decided in its time that no higher dividends would be taken than 50 pst., but it has not been followed up. In recent years, dividends have been in the upper quartile, i.e. near 90 pst. than 50 pst., something like, for example, has led to State power applying for a capital injection. State power has an ambitious vision, and it says: "State power will lead Europe in environmentally friendly energy. State power is the second largest producer of renewable energy in Europe. The company's strategy is to make significant investments in hydropower, wind power, new renewable energy and gas power both in Norway and outside its borders." To this end, a capital, research and development, which is a prerequisite for this investment, and which, for the rest, the Government is crying out loud. It's important to reach the vision of Statkraft. It's not small money Statkraft has contributed municipalities, county municipalities and the state up over the years. Some figures in this context: The 2003 State Power Sustainability Report reads as follows: In 2003, the State Power Group had an annual profit of 4 754 million. kr before tax. A dividend of NOK 2.6 billion was paid, and they paid approx. 1.9 - or almost 2 - billion kroner in taxes to municipalities, county councils and the state. IN NOW 2004: 7, the state’s commercial ownership, we can read the following under the chapter on dividend policy: "In several cases, the Member States' dividend decisions in whole companies have been criticised for not taking sufficient account of the investment needs of companies." I guess that's the case with Statkraft. From the Labour Party we now want to do something about it. We propose that the Government of Statkraft be empowered to determine dividends, but that it should be on an average of about 50 pst. over a five-year period. In order to achieve this as soon as possible, we in Odelstinget will propose later today that amendments to the State Enterprise Act and the Share Act are already being made, and that this should enter into force immediately and be taken into account in the treatment of the State budget for 2005. From the setting we see that there are several parties that agree with us in principle, but they don't go the last little step. When the Progress Party in its comments argues for the same as us, but only asks the Government to base the standard rules of the Share Act on determining dividends for Statkraft SF, I am very uncertain about what the Progress Party believes. I wonder why they don't take the step fully and join our proposals in Odelstinget. SV's proposal is the same as the Stoltenberg government in its time decided, which has never worked. It's even weaker than what was said at the time. When discussing dividend policy, there is once again reason to quote from NOW 2004: 7, State’s commercial ownership: "A starting point for good industrial development is that companies have capital to finance profitable growth. The proportion of dividends that makes sense will thus vary according to the situation of the company. Most major international companies pay continuously 30 to 50 per cent of average profits over time in dividends." If we look at other European companies that Statkraft competes with, it's the dividends they've paid in the later years, far below what Statkraft has had to pay. It's enough to mention our neighbours in Sweden and Finland. Vattenfall in Sweden paid 26 p.m. in 2003. dividends, and Fortum in Finland paid 46 pst. We should not weaken the competitiveness of State power by taking too much profits. My conclusion in terms of dividend policy is that everyone agrees that one should reduce the yield to about one. 50 pst., but it's just we in the Workers' Party and the Center Party who are brave enough to already make the law change that is going to implement this. At the same time, we will give the Government of State the same responsibility as all other AS-governments, namely to determine the dividend based on the vision and the plans of the company. Otherwise, we are pleased that the entire committee agrees that Statkraft, when we convert to AS, which we strongly oppose, will not pay the document fee. In the end, even though we are in the position together with the SV and the Center Party, we know that this is not the case in the Stortinget. We know, therefore, that after this delinquency treatment, Statkraft will become an AS, a first step on the road - perhaps - to a partial privatization. This despite the fact that a very large majority of the population of Norway seems that State power should be an entire-time Norwegian state company.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1410	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1413	The representative of Fossli calls for policy clarity. This case is based on 100 pst. the clean-up and follow-up of the ownership decision a few years back in time. My question to the representative Fossli is whether she thinks it seems neat that the Workers' Party, during the previous period, was put with the government power and was all the way to the fact that there were merger talks between the State and the Finnish Fortum - merger talks, which eventually proved not to be any of them - carried out without a single mandate decision by the Norwegian Storing. Is this an example of cleanliness? Or is it the traditional explanation we now see, in these spring days, of the practical difference between labour party politics in position and opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1420	When the representative of Kristiansen talks about cleanliness, I agree with the fact that the Right has followed up what they have said in the paper on state ownership, and has the same sentences there with regard to State power, as they have in the proposition. In the case of other parts of the Government, I am more uncertain. For some of the things that have been said by the Christian People's Party, and that they have followed up with later, they did not say in connection with the announcement of state ownership. So the cleanliness I'm somewhat uncertain about. As for the indications of what happened in connection with the government of Stoltenberg and that time, I mentioned something about it in my post. I leave to it as at the time was the Council of State, and that can explain Kristiansen just what happened, to answer it. I think that's a lot trickier than I'm going to stand here and answer those things.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1427	I want to get into what I feel is an inconsistency in the Workers' Party's comments in the setting. The reason for the Workers' Party to oppose conversion is that State power should be an energy policy instrument for the state. It says elsewhere that you have to be a commercial player in the market. And then I have to ask, how does this relate to each other? I thought everyone was concerned that business, whether it's state-owned or non-state enterprises, needs to be clearly distinguished from the political processes today. So my question to the representative Fossli is: does the Workers' Party want to operate its energy policy through state-owned commercial companies? And what happens in the event of that policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1434	In my article I had quotes about Statkraft's visions, which can be read about in several of the documents published by Statkraft, among others. in the 2003 annual report, but also in the sustainability report. The visions of Statkraft are precisely the visions of the Storting - many of the parties on the Stortinget - in research and development of hydropower, gas power, renewable energy, etc. That's exactly what Statkraft should do: follow the visions and thoughts that we're discussing here in Stortinget, and develop Statkraft to become a company that follows up the thoughts and visions that we stand for. We believe that they should be an instrument for pursuing that policy. I am absolutely convinced that it will still be possible for State power, even in the form of SF, as we wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1439	To the others who have drawn themselves in line, the president just has to say that he has to deal with the order in terms of the size of the games.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1442	In the post-war period, the Workers' Party has been a good champion of public ownership. Then a significant turn was made in the 1980s and 1990s, when the Workers' Party was one of the engines to privatize a good part of our business, among other things. Statoil, Hydro and Telenor. Now we register that the Workers' Party in the opposition is again back to being a significantly larger member of public ownership, we see that, among other things. in this case and in a note The Workers' Party has written together with SV in connection with Document No. The 8th proposal. My question to the representative Fossli is: Is this a passing phenomenon in opposition? Or can we expect this to hold true when the Workers' Party once returns to government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1451	I think there's a difference between companies. State power is one of the companies that manage large values and large natural resources, namely our hydropower. At our 2003 national meeting, we adopted a municipal election programme, a programme to facilitate our municipal involvement. It says, among other things. that we will "Maintain societal governance in key sectors, inter alia, by ensuring the right of repatriation and refusing to sub-privatisation or the sale of State power and State Forest". So we've picked out the most important areas, and we're saying that they should be state-owned and whole-time state-owned companies. It has something to do with what values we manage, and how important they are in the social exposure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1463	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1466	In the proposal on State ownership of State power, the Government assumes that State power as Europe's second largest hydroelectric power producer will focus on its core competence in its further development. State power shall be a commercial undertaking which competes on equal terms with other power producers. The government is underpinning the country's owner-strategy that State power is to concentrate on the pursuit of profitable production and trade in renewable energy, but with the ability to operate activities inherent in nature. During the management of the two propositions in the Committee, the issue of postponing the reorganisation process was a central theme. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party wished for an postponement, among others. Recalling that the Government of the Landfill Proposition states that "State power can participate in the further restructuring of the power market in Europe through industrial solutions and where the State is no longer the sole owner". The majority in the committee, but not in Stortinget, therefore think that more time is needed to deal with such a question. But already in St.meld. No 22 for 2001-2002, A smaller and better state ownership, the Government announces a transformation of State power. Both Statkraft's regime and Statkraft's leadership have expressed their desire to get a clarification of the transformation issue now. The opposition's wish for a postponement seems to be purely political, among other things. in order to hold a political debate on State power. This is also reflected in SV's reference to the trophy for a wide-ranging societal debate on these issues. There is nothing wrong with this in isolation, but the company is undoubtedly the most open with a clarification now. Let me pay tribute to the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee to take this into account. The opposition's arguments have much to do with what might happen in the future, and not with what the proposition actually does. However, any privatisation of State power through a State hall or through a merger involving a watering down of the State's ownership must be returned to the Stortinget. The plurality of the Committee - apart from the members of the Progress Party - also indicates that the deposit proposal does not contain proposals for the amendment of powers, and proposes that the sale of axes in Statkraft AS and any mergers in which Statekraft AS is involved should be handled by the Stortinget. It is important for Statkraft that they have the same framework as other market players, among others. when it is necessary to make the most efficient and commercially possible use of power resources. Government itself has reason to believe that the company must be regarded as a normal operator, operating within the same framework as that of business, or with which the company's business partners and competitors are likely. In relation to the internationalisation of power markets, it is important to be organised in a well-known form of society. The form of public limited liability is well known in the market and the most widespread form in the organisation of business. By complying with the normal rules for limited liability companies, a more transparent relationship is achieved. Ein will also reduce uncertainty about a special treatment of Statkraft. State power has been purchasing in several regional power companies in Norway in recent years. These are companies that are vertically integrated, with activities within both the production, operation of networks and the sale of power to the final user. State power itself has pointed out that it will over time be an ambition to consolidate these activities. In this way, the operation of networks and end-users will increase the size of the group internally. This will make it more inconceivable that Statkraft is organized according to a group model. This naturally follows the rules set by both national and EU competition authorities for companies engaged in both competitive activities and monopoly activities. In the proposition, the Ministry has assumed that owners will require a relatively high yield, in parentheses referred to as "in the upper quartile", i.e. from 75 pst. to 100 pst. of "off-balance-sheet profit or loss after tax and minority interests". This is a adaptation to the practice of a majority of Storting in recent years. Even if a dividend policy was formulated to take 50 pst. the profit or loss on dividends for the period 2001–03 has actually been much higher than this. The formulation of dividend policy has therefore not been as far-reaching as it had as its objective. In state enterprises, there are owners who determine dividends, without delimitation of the board’s proposal. There is no doubt that this may make it difficult to plan the company's capital use, including: with regard to investment. Any gain arising from the sale of ownership interests will also be included in the dividend base. It's written in the proposition: "The Ministry considers it important not to create locking effects that prevent such restructuring. It is therefore appropriate to consider in particular whether any major gains arising from the sale of assets should be included in the dividend base." A collective committee has chosen to formulate this even clearer and wants such gains to be kept out of the way when determining dividends, just to make it more prudent. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Christian People's Party have also chosen to join the Progress Party in a proposal to ask the Government to "understand the normal rules of the Share Act in determining dividends from Statkraft SF", with the same foundation as above. The proposed reorganisation of State power means that the cost of document fees to the State will amount to a sum of DKK 1.5 billion. The Ministry has argued that Statkraft must pay a document fee in line with the law. This is one of the things. in order to avoid any debts relating to the special treatment of State power and any problems with ESA. The cost of document fees will reduce the excess of the company and thus also the dividend base. The Committee has gathered on a proposal from the Progress Party that "the document fee imposed upon the reorganisation... shall be compensated by an equivalent amount deducted from the basis of the post-tax dividends in the current year". Such a regulation of dividends is up to owners to decide, and it would thus be unproblematic in terms of ESA. Finally, I would like to say that the deposit proposal and its handling by the Committee have become part of a position with which Government should be able to see itself. The company is allowed to be converted into a limited liability company, as the company’s board of directors and leases have requested. In my view, the Committee has also found sensible solutions to issues relating to dividend policy and document fees. This is why we hope that this can be of benefit to the company. I would like to close the board of directors, the management board and the management team in order to achieve the goals and strategies that the company has seen. The Economic and Social Committee has also addressed a private proposal from Sylvia Brustad and Olav Akssen to give regional power companies access to increased public equity. For the Right's part, I want to show that the public ownership of Norwegian business is very high. At Oslo Stock Exchange is 40 pst. 85 pst. of the water resources are public at eight, and public ownership has been increasing in the last decade. This is due to the fact that private ownership has discriminated against us with regard to homelessness, and private Norwegian ownership is, as in other ownership issues, discriminated against because of the property tax. When proposers say that there is a potential for further development of regional power companies, it is easy to agree. But the need for industry to rely on public ownership in order to achieve this, and to achieve the necessary restructuring, is not as easy to see. The industry has gathered shown good will and ability to make restructurings. The regional companies Nord-Trøndelag Energieverk and the Energy Company Buskerud are examples of this. There are many more. Regional companies have now been active in taking over power plants and ownership parts that Statkraft has been ordered to sell. Nothing is so far sold abroad. The industry hardly needs new equity to make profitable investments. Rather, the industry wears with too low a return on its equity. Exploiting up to $30 billion in equity, some of which are in the media, will not solve this problem, but on the contrary, counterproductive. Right? I think it would make more sense to focus on giving the industry better framework conditions, more in line with the foreign power company's. It would also make it more attractive to sit as owners of regional companies, either public or private. In our view, the proposal should be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1512	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1515	The representative from the Right said the company needs clarification, and we all agree. At the same time, he said that the opposition has concentrated on what will happen in the future, and not on what is happening today. But what is politics? Policy is absolutely capable of getting involved and trying to analyse what will happen in the future with the decisions we take today. That's why we're here. It can't be that we're going to decide what's going on right now, and that we're not going to look at the consequences of the decisions we're making, get ten years ahead. I want to ask the representative: what does he think will happen in connection with a transformation? Is it not true that there is a majority for any partial privatisation in the proposition made by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1522	It's hard to predict, as you know, especially about the future. What any future majority in Stortinget would mean about a downsal of Statkraft SF or about a merger is not up to me to speculate on. I would like to point out that, as a majority in the Committee has stated, whether a hall of shafts of Statkraft SF or a merger involving a leaching of the State's owners shall be dealt with in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1527	Historically, the Right has always been a driver of private solutions. In former state companies, now limited liability companies with stock exchange listing - Telenor, Hydro, Statoil, some banks, etc. - we have experienced a risk spread, development and dynamics that is generally agreed that would not have happened without stock exchange listing and partial privatisation. In the case of Statkraft, on the other hand, it is silent from the Right. It's always so that someone has to go up the path, remove some old watering and some sacred cows and go in the breeze for what you believe in, and always believed in. What is the reason that the Right, which is the most dominant and largest party in the Government, now holds such a very low profile in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1534	It is hardly a secret that the Right is not particularly anxious about private capital in Norwegian business, nor is it about Norwegian energy supply. We'll find that on the base. Statoil is an example of a company that has undergone a reorganisation and has received private owners. But one must stick to the political reality. And there is no current issue today, the cork for the Right or for others, to propose the listing and privatisation of State power. There is a question that has to come back later in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1539	I need to clarify what is on page 5 of St.prp. No 53, which I also brought up with the representative Gedrem. I quote: "The government opens up State power to participate in the further restructuring of the power market in Europe through industrial solutions, and where the State is no longer the sole owner." So it says that the government opens up that the state is no longer the sole owner. My question to the representative will be as follows: Is the Government opening up so that the state will no longer be the sole owner, or is it not? Should we delete these sentences, or should they still stand?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1556	The quote to which the representative Ryan referred, in my view, implies nothing other than what is actually the situation today, namely that Statkraft, through subsidiaries, can participate with other private or public-owned foreign companies in its foreign initiative. This is happening today, among other things. in Sweden, where Statekraft is a minority shareholder in the company Sydkraft together with E.ON, which is a majority shareholder. State power is also a minority shareholder in a company in Denmark that operates commerce, and they operate, as far as I know, also with power trading in Germany and the Netherlands. So this wording says nothing but that one can contribute to a risk-absorbing for the state at the company's foreign investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1561	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1564	The energy sector in Norway and the rest of Europe has fundamentally changed in a few years and changes continue. A faster clarification of the future corporate form and financial basis of Statkraft will be crucial for the development of this company. The Progress Party considers it very important that the enterprise be given good opportunities to develop further both nationally and internationally, so that it can play a stronger role in the Nordic and European context. This requires considerable investment, which is currently problematic. Therefore, a long-term strategy must be clarified by the State responsible which also allows for an increase in the supply of capital, in order to give it sufficient freedom of action to develop further. In order to achieve this, Statkraft must be given a form of company that is well-known in the market and acquire several owners as part of strengthening its competence. We believe that the state-owned form of enterprise is generally not suitable for an enterprise operating on a competitive arena. It may be linked with a tool for authorities to perform sectoral policy tasks. Otherwise, today's company form is little known beyond the borders of the country. In order to operate effectively both operationally and strategically, State power depends on how the environment perceives what is an ordinary market player. The Progress Party considers that the entity should be primarily transformed into a limited liability company and that it should be listed and partially privatised. In this context, I will refer to companies such as Statoil, Telenor, Hydro and banks in which the State has significant interests and which are listed on the stock exchange. An activity which will be an important international actor must be listed in order to obtain the necessary capacity for action. The need for capital for growth and development could be addressed, for example: in the case of issues and by using own shares as settlement in the case of mergers. It is only as a listed and partially privatised company that the objective can be achieved to play a significant role in Europe in environmentally friendly energy and to provide good opportunities to participate offensively in further restructuring in the Nordic and European energy markets. The Progress Party is aware that a prerequisite for the full transformation of State power into a limited liability company where the State is no longer the sole owner is the introduction of an owner-neutral repatriation scheme. We therefore believe that the Government should make proposals to convert Statkraft into a listed company with 30 pst. elements of private owners relating to the proceedings of the Stortinge concerning the introduction of an owner-neutral repatriation scheme. Having said that, we want the state to have an active relationship with the development of the power sector, which ensures rational and forward-looking development. We believe it would be unfortunate if large parts of Norwegian energy supply came on foreign hands. Nevertheless, there is a positive feature of a certain proportion of foreign owners in the industry at home, in line with the fact that State power is engaged outside. Similarly, over many years there have been good experiences of foreign involvement on Norwegian pedestal. Today’s main problem with ownership of Norwegian hydropower resources is the lack of national risk capital. When municipalities and county councils want to sell, foreign energy companies are often the only providers, and the values are sold out of the country at a low price. For example: Finnish Fortum and Swedish Vattenfall grow into the Nordic energy giants, state power is tied to hands and feet, and cannot play a prominent role in the restructuring of the Nordic power market. Other Norwegian energy companies also shine with their absence. The Progress Party has made several proposals to strengthen the access to capital from Norwegian sources in order to achieve greater competition for valuable pieces of Norwegian business and more secure Norwegian ownership. We want the Petroleum Fund to be able to invest in Norway, which has now been cut off. We believe it is at least as important to invest in eternal hydropower resources here at home as if the state were to sit as passive owner of minority positions in The Texas Company and Ford Motors. In this regard, I would like to refer to the views of Victor Norman, Torger Reve and Kjell Roland in the book "The Problem of the Kingdom". As long as the state accounts for the majority of savings in Norway, and this capital is almost systematically channelled out of the country, we have almost decided that large, internationally oriented enterprises should be sold out. It is therefore more difficult to anchor the ownership of major industrial systems in Norway. Therefore, we want to establish solutions where state capital, often together with other Norwegian companies, can be an alternative when foreign interests want to buy attractive Norwegian companies, for example. power companies. The Progress Party has been given a majority in order to explore different ways of making Norway’s capital strength a competitive advantage, including possible fund structures, including structural funds. A group of experts, led by Professor Agnar Sandmo at the Norwegian School of Economics, has been set up to have the investigation ready in June. We await this investigation with great interest. In order to comment on the Government's proposal for an organisational model for State Power, we believe it implies a major step in the right direction, and we will support it subsidiaryly. With regard to the position of opening up alliances with other partners, like the other parties, we also assume that we should come back to the Stortinget with a separate case on this matter. In the future, the Ministry will assume that the owner will require a relatively high yield, and it is specified that this will be in the upper quartile, as some other speakers have also mentioned. This is neither consistent with the company's ambitions to achieve the desired rating level nor with the objectives previously declared by the owner to have a powerful Norwegian power company. We experience this as a significant distance between the proposition's description of the company's strategy and the ownership policy to be implemented in the light of the suspension. The government points out that it is the owner who determines dividends in state enterprises, without being limited by the board’s proposal. This may involve unforeseeability, including: in the planning of major investments. As is stated, dividends in the proposition, and as a result of the last two years, with a yield of 95 pst, are not suitable for maximising value. According to the state's business ownership, it is very abnormal to have this dividend policy. The Progress Party agrees with the recommendations of the sample that the normal rules of the Share Act for dividend decisions also apply to public limited-liability companies and state enterprises. It is the company’s or entity’s activities, strategic decisions and operational operations that lead to conclusions as to the benefits it wishes to bear at all times. We have therefore put forward a proposal that the normal rules of the Share Act for dividend decisions apply to Statkraft in the event of the reorganisation, and it is gratifying that there is a majority behind this proposal by the fact that the Right and Christian People's Party are co-sponsors in the vote. The Ministry proposes that Statkraft pay a document fee in line with the standard law. In the past, reorganisations of State activities have normally been exempted from this levy. This applies, for example, to NSB, NRK, Televerket, Posten, Statsbyggen and Kommunalbanken. It is also unreasonable that an enterprise that has suffered a deterioration in its financial situation will have to pay an estimated NOK 1.5 billion in the document fee. When you read the proposition, it almost seems like the government wants a rematch on the capital injection that was adopted in December. It is therefore very gratifying that all parties now end up with the original proposal of the Progress Party that the document fee imposed upon the reorganisation of Statkraft be fully compensated. In connection with the reorganization proposition, Stortinget also deals with a Document No. Eight proposals from the Workers' Party to explore several models of public capital injection to the regionally owned power companies. The Progress Party may agree, under certain conditions, that models for the provision of equity to Norwegian energy companies are being explored. Such capital injection is desirable given the need for increased value creation in the power sector. This sector in Norway and the rest of Europe is changing rapidly. Deregulation and technological development lead to major players strengthening their positions. These developments are very clear from a European perspective, but also apply in Norway. One of the prerequisites for this development is that there are willing sellers. The reason for the availability of willing sellers lies in the fact that, to a large extent, it is the government, the state, directly or indirectly, the counties and municipalities that have been the owners of power companies. The owners have, over the years, largely taken out the profits as dividends and used the funds for other good purposes. The result is that many power companies have a very weak equity base despite the fact that many of them have had good results over many years. With low equity, it is difficult for small and medium-sized power companies to make the technological and competence upgrades that are absolutely necessary in a deregulated market. The power sector is a very capital intensive industry. At the same time, the country has the potential to significantly increase its value creation in this area. The realisation of the potential, on the other hand, requires significant capital input. In Norway there is no shortage of capital, but the profits from the petroleum sector are invested abroad. Investment in Norwegian hydropower production is not just a relatively safe investment; it is an investment in a resource that will increase significantly in value in the years to come. At the same time, it is an investment in environmentally friendly energy production. The Progress Party believes that investment in the Norwegian power sector will lead to a stronger realisation of the value creation potential. At the same time, a capital strengthening of its own power industry will help maintain decision-making functions in Norway. The Progress Party has stated in its principal programme that the public must distinguish between the societal tasks on the one hand and the business-economy objectives for public-owned activities on the other. In view of this, it is important that any arrangements for investment in domestic power companies be based on commercial assumptions. We cannot accept capital injections as a life-saving plank or shivering for shaken energy companies. This includes, inter alia: that the management of investment funds must be separated from the political processes, i.e.: the social need for income and public distribution of resources. The Workers' Party's proposal mentions a model of SEDØE, a new fund structure, an extension of the Fund's investment area and responsible loans. The Commission considers that it is absolutely necessary to examine several models in order for the investigation to have the necessary scope in order to provide an adequate basis for any later decisions in the Stortinge. For us, it is important to investigate models for the establishment of a State investment company, a State-private investment company and a listed company with a State share, following the model of Statoil and Telenor, in addition to the models set out in the proposal of the Workers' Party. Then proposals are made for the purpose of establishing one or more schemes that will strengthen national ownership in the power sector. I would like to mention the proposals of the Advance Party included in the two settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1606	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1612	The Progress Party argues very well in the setting of a reduced yield from Statkraft, in line with the Labour Party and the Centre Party. But then we come to the place where we have to make the decisions, and then it is in a way a stop from the Progress Party. Unlike the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, the Progress Party will only ask the Government to base the standard rules of the Share Act, while we propose a legislative amendment that will lead to this from 2005. Can the representative of the Progress Party explain why they are not going the last step?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1622	I can confirm that the representative Fossli of the Workers' Party and the undersigned share the same opinion. We believe that all companies, whether they are public limited liability companies or companies - by the way, there is a special law on how to deal with it - should be based on business decisions in the board of directors. The Governing Board must have a sovereign right to decide on a business-economic basis. That is, if a company is in a mature phase, it is natural that the board decides for a higher dividend to the owners. But if you're in an active investment phase, which State power is certainly facing if it gets normal framework conditions, it's natural that the yield is getting lower, and much lower than what we've seen is being taken out of State power in recent years. In concrete terms: the Progress Party has not yet decided in its group on how to vote subsidiaryly, but it will, as I see it, be natural for us to support the Workers' Party's proposal in the voting position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1629	In the setting of state ownership in Statkraft, the members of the Progress Party say that it would be unfortunate if large parts of Norwegian energy supply came to foreign hands - and there is probably hardly anyone who disagrees. But they also say that there will be a positive aspect of foreign ownership, and refer to the example of Norwegian continental shelf. But in the setting for Document No. The 8th proposal which the Committee has been discussing, the Progress Party believes that the State's capital strength should be used to secure national ownership in the industry. Seemingly, this is a difference of hue in view. My question to the representative Hedstrøm is therefore whether he can deepen the view of the Progress Party on foreign ownership in the power sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1636	The progress party does not want to dig excavators around Norway. What we see today is that Statekraft participates in commercial transactions and ownership beyond the borders of Norway. It is quite natural in an internationalisation process. We also think it is right that some foreign energy companies have a certain feature in Norway. But when that's said, here we have a special situation, because as we see it, we don't have much access to private Norwegian capital or capital from Norwegian public energy companies to enter the Norwegian power sector and compete for valuable pieces of Norwegian business. This is mainly due to the fact that we have a wealth tax here in this country that other countries do not have, or it occurs at a much higher level of wealth and at lower rates elsewhere. Therefore, somehow we have to use the capital of the state by means of state companies, preferably with private ownership, to compete for these valuable pieces.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1643	The representative Hedstrøm addressed this with foreign ownership in his reply. My question is: who is the Progress Party sees it as possible to buy as much as 30 pst. by State power, if it is not intended to be non-resident owners? There are currently Norwegian egg environments that can enter with 30 pst. in Statkraft, or is the foreign owner Hedstrøm thinking about? I think the answer that was given instead of that question was somewhat unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1648	The progress party thinks it's very positive if we get a stock exchange listing and private owners into Statkraft. It will widen the competences of governments, and it will provide access to capital. This company has been starved. But the actual situation is that there will be significant capital that needs to be brought in. That's why we have more than one mind in our head at the same time. We want to set up different schemes where we use the state's capital as a competitive advantage in Norwegian business, but where a purely commercial and watertight bulkhead to the state power by its own statutes will be involved and compete for these valuable pieces. This will benefit the sellers, the municipalities, because they get more providers. And that would be an advantage for Norwegian ownership, because head offices and development departments can still be located in Norway. That is what the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1655	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1658	I've always had the joy of bringing school classes into the Stortinget. There, of course, I'll show them the different rooms, but then I'll say, now I'll show you my favorite. Then we take the elevator up, and then we go to the Council Hall. There is neither Kristin Halvorsen, Jens Stoltenberg nor others outside the State Council Hall, but there is a stable, stable man named Johan Castberg. I choose to go back to his time to get serious about this matter, because what we are going to discuss today is a matter that has been discussed in the Norwegian big business ever since Norway became independent in 1905. That is why it is absolutely necessary that we get a historical dimension into this debate and not get too narrow. What happened around 1910-1915 was that we had wise people on the Stortinget who let some run in relation to how to use the hydropower. Some decisions were taken to ensure that we in this country actually received a welfare increase that was formidable. So we chose to take care of ownership of our water power, so we got income to the state that made it possible for us to build this country. What we did was we said that the source itself is always going to take care of, and then we take the return as that source at any time had to give us. It's a basic idea that we've had up to today. We have had ownership of large parts of this source, and then we have reaped the profits at all times, and in that way we have received a welfare increase in this country that is totally formidable. Oil resources in the North Sea become a detail when you compare. First, it's very short time since we started using oil resources, and second, they have a completely different time perspective. Oil resources have a time perspective of perhaps 50 to 100 years. Our hydropower resources have a time perspective of thousands of years. For this reason, political considerations are completely different from those of many other cases. Future generations will also reap this resource, perhaps in the year 3000 and beyond. Now it's our turn. Now, in 2004, the Stortinge is going to move on wisely, so that future generations can also benefit from such a great natural resource. Do we do that with the choices we make today? Do we do that by converting State power into a limited liability company? Then it's important that we think about: what does it mean that we make Statkraft into a limited liability company? Well, that means we're now making sure that State power can be sold. Pieces of Statkraft can be sold, or the whole Statkraft can be sold. That's what that means when we turn Statkraft into AS. In a few years -- then I don't talk about 2-5 years, because then something happens, but in the next 10 to 100 years -- it can happen gripped that makes us sell important pieces of this source. And we know that if we don't own the source, there will also be less return for future generations to benefit from it. That's what's serious in this case, we're helping to start selling. What is a share? What's a power share? Well, a share is something that can be traded. We know that when we trade shares, there's no obvious way to get them back. If you have sold them, there must be someone who is willing to sell back, if you want to get hold of them again. Therefore, we believe in SV that this is a very large and serious matter, on which Stortinget and Norwegian society should spend more time. Yesterday's poll shows, among other things: That over 80 pst. by the Norwegian people want State power to remain as it is today. I think it was 4 pst. which suggested that they would sell Statkraft. But what the Progress Party and the Government are adding is to facilitate the sale of State power, not in 2004, perhaps not in 2005, but to facilitate its future sale. Then, as the opposition, we have to tell them that it's wrong. It is totally unacceptable that we should now facilitate such an important resource for society, in terms of security of supply, but also in relation to value creation that gives money to the Norwegian people, to be offered for sale. We in SV want a strong State force. We want a State force that takes care of the resources they have today, which is about 50-55 pst. of all Norwegian hydropower. These resources are to be used in a way that keeps us getting even returns from them. In addition, we want Statkraft to be the leader in environmentally friendly energy. We know that wind power, solar energy, bioenergy and wave power are working actively today. There are also a number of other methods where we are in an early phase. State power can play a leading role here. So Statkraft is not missing tasks. Government power does not have to merge with foreign power companies in order to develop further. There's a lot of homework here that we can deal with, and that state power can be able to evolve. One of the areas where SV seems that the Stortinget has treated State power poorly is in relation to the dividend policy. We have taken a dividend from Statkraft that, in our view, is too high. It's not right that we go in and take 90-95 pst. of state power's profits every year, and then must have such emergency solutions as we had for a while back, when we were in and we were adding state power capital in order for them to move forward in relation to an offensive strategy on environmentally friendly energy. We have to make sure that Statkraft keeps more of the surplus in the future. SV wants it to be around 50 pst. We believe that Statkraft should retain approx. 50 pst. on average, so that they can be an engine, as I mentioned earlier, in different areas of environmentally friendly energy. Another area that I want to address is the point that goes on regional companies. We know that many power companies are assessing whether to sell, because the local economy is poor. We have some intercommunal companies, and we have some county companies that actually consider selling their power companies because of poor local economy. We in SV believe that this is very unwise, but we record that some people are involved in that kind of thinking. Then we believe it is important that we have thought through how we handle it, as Statkraft has been informed by the Competition Authority that they cannot buy up more power in Norway. Therefore, we are pleased that we are now receiving an investigation proposal to investigate what to do when, for example. companies such as Hafslund - which has been the most recent - and other companies, put out their power companies for sale. We look forward to investigating the different models and how we're going to handle them, so that any regional company can be an actor to buy up the companies, so that our hydropower is retained in public ownership even in the years to come. So back to the serious matter. For the first time since I arrived at Stortinget, SV together with the Workers' Party and the Centre asked to spend more time on this matter. We think this case is so big that we asked to spend some more time on it. We record that in some things you have a good time. The size has now gone and waited for a case about SIVA for almost half a year without anything in particular from the Ministry of Industry. Then this case comes, and we get less than two months for the treatment. We are very sorry that it was not possible to spend any longer time on such a big matter, but that we had to rush it through. We ask ourselves, why did that happen? Yes, especially the Right well feared that they would not get a majority if we had been given a more proper explanation of this matter, if we had got a real social debate, if we had got the opinion to respond and in a way, in a stronger order, go against what is now happening in the Stortinget. That's why you rushed through the matter, simply because you were afraid that this matter would be too thoroughly illuminated. Now we know that it's going to be AS. We deeply regret that this is happening, and in particular we are disappointed with the Christian People's Party, which we had expected would go against now facilitating the future sale of State Power. I have spoken to many local Christian People's Party politicians who I know agree with SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre that this should not be done. But we record that the Christian People's Party is pressured in the Government to actually participate in an AS-certification that I think pains the party, and that I think pains the local politicians who are concerned about the power sector being under public control. Then we got a majority for a proposal that kind of helps to hold back a little bit, and that's the proposal that any case where you want to sell or merge parts of State power should go back to this house for consideration. I want to commend the Christian People's Party for at least getting them into it, but that rose doesn't weigh up, not very close. The serious thing in this case is that today, state power is converted into a limited liability company and is used to facilitate sales, but we record that today we get a majority in order that every single time it is planned to sell or merge, the matter is to be debated in this room. We're going to focus on it, so that at least we get a debate and there's no such thing as a sneak privatisation that we don't have control of. I'm going back to my school class. I expect there will also be school classes in the years to come, perhaps in ten years, in 50 years and in 100 years. If the right forces then have said down the bust of Johan Castberg, I shouldn't say. But I doubt very much that today's Minister of Industry or someone from today's government has been replaced by Johan Castberg or got a place next to it. I think the generations of the future are very little pleased with us for what is being added up to in the Storting today, and I think the history books will show that today we are involved in an unwise act that jeopardizes Norwegian natural resources and Norwegian values, and that there is really no reason to have any kind of honor for this big business.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1688	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1691	I can assure the representative Ryan that it is not relevant except with pride to continue to allow Castberg's bust to decorate Stortinget's construction work in the future. But from there to see 100 years ahead you have to be able to do in the name of all the world. I think that timely questions to the SV in today's situation, where they have the ambition that from the next harvest they will enter and rule the country together with the Center Party and the Workers' Party, must be: What do you want with State Power? What is Statkraft going to do? Is Statkraft too little in Norway? Is Statkraft big enough? Do you disagree with the Competition Authority, which says that Statkraft already has too much production capacity, and obliges the company to sell itself into Hedmark Energie, E-CO Wasserkraft and Trondheim Energieverk? What are the policies and tasks of any new government with the SV to let Statkraft have as future marshalls?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1696	SV wants Statkraft, as I said in my post, to be the leader of environmentally friendly energy. New renewable energy is an area that has a great potential in itself, and I think that Statkraft has enough challenges in being a leader in the different fields there. I would also like to say to the representative of Kristiansen that it is possible that Castberg will stand out from the State Council after the Right has had the power sector that they are now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1704	To the representative Ryan's intervention on this subject with a postponement and better time: I remind you that the committee has had two months on this matter, and I would rather say that this reminds us of fibre tactics, that you want to postpone proposals that you disagree with in the decision. I would also like to remind you, as the rapporteur for the ownership message two years ago, St.meld. No 22 for 2001-2002, that it was a unanimous increase that indicated the desire for clarification of State power, including SV. So here's something that's not right. So to my question to Ryan's representative, why are you opposed to turning Statkraft into an AS? We know that this is the usual form of organisation for the many municipal and county energy companies in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1713	SV is opposed to converting Statkraft into an AS simply because it is facilitating privatisation. What has happened in the past when you've relocated important companies to AS? What happened to Telenor, what happened to Statoil, what happened to Hydro, what happened to others? Well, this is a step one in terms of privatisation, and that is, the Norwegian people's natural resources can then go over to private hands, and perhaps to foreign hands. That's why we're so strongly opposed to turning Statkraft into AS. That's the first step on the way to losing control of our most important natural resource. Otherwise, the representative Ryan does not know what philisteries are, and whether it is in the Progress Party you have such people. I don't know that term.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1720	I have two questions for Ryan. Government's leadership, government and administration are asking thin Stortinget for a clarification, and it's urgent. The director has even said that he finds it irresponsible to continue if we do not get a clarification now. So Ryan says no, it's not relevant to give a clarification. We're going to postpone it, because this is dangerous. Should we not listen to those who have the daily responsibility for the operation of Statkraft? I feel that the representative Ryan is using a very strong language and a far too excited argument when he's talking about dealing with the power sector, when he's talking about losing control of the power sector because this means that axes can be translated. So it's a language where he points to any minimal possibilities for consequences that he emphasizes as a truth. I'd like to ask if Ryan will find it advisable to use such a suspicion for something that the multiples here don't stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1729	There is no doubt that both the Progress Party and the Right have a desire to share State power. In different media essays and other contexts, we're familiar with it. But we know that because the Christian People's Party is in the Government, one has already been content to take the first step on the road, i.e. an AS-certification. It is very important that we say so clearly from now on, with clear words, and warn against what will happen in the next step. So to this thing with the governor in Statkraft, who has threatened to go off if it doesn't become a clarification. A clarification is important to obtain, but a clarification shall not necessarily be as the Chairperson wishes. I think we have a lot of competent directors who could run a business model. It worries me very little about today's board of directors would not have had the opportunity to rule if we had gone for a business model further. In the consultation with Statkraft, it was also clearly stated that the most important thing for Statkraft was, in fact, the dividend policy. This with organization came hacked below.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1738	The President asks Ryan to make suggestions, if not.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1741	I refer to SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1746	The representative of Inge Ryan has taken up the suggestion he referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1751	With five minutes of speaking time, it may not make sense to start with Johan Castberg, but at least I will go back to March 31, 2003, when the Governor of Statkraft in an opinion to the Committee of Governors said the following: "The form of a State enterprise is not known as a form of company internationally and is therefore easily identified as a company to carry out its sectoral policy tasks and have other economic objectives." This is also illustrated by the fact that it is the owner of the Minister of Industry, who has the commercial part of the enterprise, which is currently present in Stortinget, and not the specialist council responsible for energy supply. The reason for the transformation that is being carried out today is extremely thin, and in my opinion it is more unanswered than answered questions in the proposition submitted by the Government. The Management Board considers it necessary to strengthen the company's equity. The government will not add new equity to the company. On the contrary, the Government says that one still wants to make a high dividend, that one wants to contribute to the restructuring of the company by selling ownership interests, and that one will consider whether or not to include larger gains arising from the sale of ownership interests in the dividend basis. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party agree that the company should not be given more equity. In other words, the company's soundness is not strengthened, and there will be nothing at all in what the Storting does today, which will strengthen the company's credit rating. State power has played a significant role in industrial policy. In the opinion of the Centre Party, no satisfactory response has been given to how a future industrial power regime should be resolved, especially if the Government were to have an impact on what is unequivocally stated in the proposition, that it would be desirable to facilitate that the State should no longer be the sole owner of the company. It is true that the EEA Agreement places restrictions on a future industrial power regime and on the possibilities for having policy-specific industrial contracts. It's a phase that's gone. But it actually requires both government and greatness to use the imagination to see how it is possible to meet the long-term needs of industry. It's going to be a lot harder in a partially privatized company. In other words, the transformation into a limited liability company today serves no purpose other than to choose a purely commercially justified form of organisation, which is known internationally, and which, in my view, will allow for a future partial privatisation, which is also evident from the Government's own document. On page 20 of the proposition you say: "Another advantage of the form of a limited liability company is that if it is desirable, it will be easier to bring partners into the ownership by means of alliances or mergers." And when you also say that the Government wants to facilitate the government's future not to be the sole owner, that State power is given the opportunity to participate in industrial cooperation, it is clear, despite the various representatives of the government parties today, that in the future they want a partial privatisation of the company. The centre party is in favour of strong public ownership in the energy sector, not necessarily the greatest possible state ownership, but the greatest possible public ownership, and would like to see widespread ownership, where regional and local companies continue to play a central role in the future. But we want a strong State power, in order to have a national, strong player who is able to address the challenges we now face in the energy policy sector, in order to ensure a satisfactory energy supply in the future, sufficient amounts of energy, not least by investing in new renewable energy. And the best thing we can do for Statkraft and for our future energy supply today is not to transform Statkraft into a corporation, but to give the company a sufficient equity base to develop and have the best possible funding, and not least to adopt a predictable dividend policy that is binding. The size has said in different contexts that we should not take out more than 50 pst. Dividends, without any attempt to achieve this in the last few years. If you go for the proposal that the Workers' Party and the Centre jointly promote today, it will ensure the company quite different development opportunities from what it has now had, especially at a time when there is a strong need to invest in alternative energy sources. Erlend Nornes says that the formulation of industrial cooperation does not imply anything other than that the company can carry out risk-absorbing operations on its foreign investment, and the representative also refers to the ownership of Statekraft in Southern Kraft. Yes, this actually shows that the type of industrial cooperation, the type of ownership, is fully possible even within today's organization. What is not possible is a partial privatisation of the company. That is what is being prepared for today, and unfortunately it will come in a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1783	The coast is strongly dependent on Statkraft and that we keep the company in Norwegian hands. Here's the thing about taking care of the national heirloom--yeah, I'll say--the gold. We are therefore pleased that the left-hand side proposes that Statkraft should retain its current form of company, and will support this proposal. The Coastal Party notes that the Right-dominated Government once again proposes measures to facilitate the transfer of control of Norwegian natural resources to non-residents. This must be particularly problematic for the Christian People's Party, which has otherwise been skeptical about flagging out Norwegian ownership. Yes, right-wing policy works, it's certain. But the Coast Party is most disappointed with the Progress Party, which in many other cases has gone high to defend Norwegian ownership interests. The party of progress in this matter goes beyond the Government in the direction of allowing flagging out. At the same time, the lot proposes the introduction of a neutral right of withdrawal. The progress party has a problem. On the one hand, the party is an declared liberalist party. On the other hand, it claims to work for national ownership. The problem is that these two main lines are difficult to reconcile. A liberalist policy will give rise to the power of money. And the power of money is in its inner being transnational. Of course, the Progress Party could choose to be a liberalist national and anti-liberalist international. However, the fact is that the Progress Party supports the EEA Agreement, which makes it impossible to discriminate between enterprises in Norway and the EU. Thus, privatisation of Norwegian companies would easily lead to deflagration. The coastal party is a value-conservative centre party. We want a mixed economy, with a natural balance of power between private and public interests. At the same time, we want to ensure national ownership. It is easy to combine if the Norwegian authorities have the opportunity to discriminate against foreign enterprises in order to ensure national ownership. Norway then has to terminate the EEA Agreement and bet on a purely trade agreement with the EU. As long as Norway is in the EEA, we will be forced to invest unilaterally in public ownership to prevent deflagration. If we had been moneyless, it would have been a good thing to sell the natural resources. But we're not moneyless! Isn't there almost $1,000 billion in the Petroleum Fund? We have so much money that we don't know where to put them, they have to be placed abroad. Privatisation of natural resources - why do we do that? There may be two reasons: either we need money, or it must be in order for foreigners to own the natural resources. It can't be money, because we have too much money. Then it has to be to give the aliens the natural resources. We're stealing the people's property. We're stealing from the people. We decide in Stortinget that natural resources should be privatised. In the case of water, in the case of minerals, in the case of forest, in the case of the coast, in the case of fish, in the case of the sea. At the same time, we have the Petroleum Fund. Yes, we see it every day: the right-wing policy works, it works very well. And if they really take the chance in the election campaign, I want them to be happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1800	I now want to focus on the regional power companies, and refer to the representative Fossli and later the representative Aksselsen regarding State Power. There is no doubt that major and rapid changes are now taking place in the power sector. Developments in Europe are fast, and it is now about eating or being eaten. Common to most Norwegian companies is that they are publicly owned, and that is what the Labour Party believes it should continue to be. It is important to preserve Norwegian hydropower resources in Norwegian hands. We also have a responsibility for future generations, to take care of our inheritance silver properly. In several regions of the country, power companies are an important part of business, both in terms of value, turnover and number of employees, and have therefore played an important role in regional development. There is no doubt that their position and strength will be crucial for the future development of our regions, but then companies will have to grow and also restructure where necessary, so that they have competitiveness. Here, there is a great potential for further growth. In the opinion of the Workers' Party, this is best done by ensuring that these regional companies remain in Norwegian public ownership. But then there must be Norwegian equity available, so that we prevent our companies from getting on foreign hands. Let me use Eidsiva energy as an example. It's a big and very important company in the interior. After instructions from the Competition Authority and the Government, Statkraft has to sell itself out of several companies, including Eidsiva Energie, in order to be able to buy up in Agder Energie. I understand that this is going to happen by the end of this year, i.e. This is where the changes happen quickly. In the case of Eidsiva Energie, it is a matter of having to put in place over 2 billion kroner when Statkraft has to withdraw. Then it is not that there are a number of municipalities or counties in line with NOK 2 billion that they can spit in – not because the municipalities and the counties do not want it, but because they do not have this money. This leads, inter alia, to: that Eidsiva energy now has to talk to foreign companies, also because the State has so far not set up with the necessary capital. In my view, it is pointless. Private energy and other regional companies should remain in Norwegian hands. I am therefore pleased that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are united in asking the Government to examine the proposal and, by the end of this year at the latest, to make concrete proposals on different models to ensure national ownership of the regionally owned power companies in Norway. I also hope that the Progress Party will vote in a subsidiary way for this vote, even though they initially have a slightly different proposal, but there is not really much difference. Then I also register in this round that the government on its side does not seem to be busy with this at all. Unfortunately, there does not seem to be any support there, unfortunately not in the Christian People's Party either. There's reason to be critical of that, but it's not surprising, especially when we're reading Sanner's statement in the newspaper on June 2nd this year, where he says: "The ap proposal is completely unnecessary and completely meaningless." At the same time, we see that the bourgeois-run Oslo tries to sell out Hafslund at regular intervals, without having so far, fortunately, succeeded. I want to stress so strongly that the current crisis we had a short time ago calls for more governance of our power companies, both regional and state power. I would also like to stress that with the situation we now have in many regions, which are problematic, we need active regional and regional policies. I would also like to say that at a time of over 100,000 unemployed, we need large businesses in our regions. The regional power companies are, and then we should make sure that we still have these in Norwegian hands. So I recommend the setting in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1825	I do not record with the greatest surprise that more from the opposition parties are making their persistent, repeated attempts to let this debate revolve around something other than what it really is about. Today's decision in the Storting will probably mean that the underlying business of Government is transformed into a limited company, but this is not about the privatisation of State power - about the sale of silver or gold, as has been said - or about the privatisation of natural resources. It's a rhetoric that I think some parties should have saved themselves in this context, especially when one calls for a greater degree of tidyness than what has been done so far in the matter. It becomes a bit curious when I see some representatives asking for more time. If it had meant that some could have been able to reconsider their point of view using more time, this would have been interesting, but there is nothing in the debate or at least in the setting that would indicate that there has been the motivation in the matter as such. The use of the group model adopted today is necessary for companies engaged in competitive activities which are also currently engaged in a significant degree of monopoly activity in the country. It is high time we got a greater transparency in the company Statkraft, and that we can clear up claims and discussions that go on that we have a state-owned company that bears the mark of enjoying special advantages. We know that in today's situation, not least through international competition law, EU directives, etc., we need to clean up our own legislation, at least if we have the ambition to allow the company to compete in international energy contexts. I also think that this debate stems from the classic version of the fear of international actors, the fear of international capital and the fear of international participation of foreign companies within their borders. I could have mentioned the parallelity of many other sectors. I think that we should have been able to do this with great success, at least there is no positive signal for those who want to participate in and build further industrial activities in this country, strengthening diversity and strengthening access to capital across all sectors of the country, especially when focusing on the unemployment situation, which is still a problem in the country. Curiously, it is also when you are deeply sorry about the level of dividends. There is every reason to focus on this with regard to the state and state power, but I only see, in retrospect of the last three years of budgetary agreements that have been concluded, that once it has come to fruition, neither the Progress Party nor the Workers' Party has been particularly concerned with taking part in making a significant contribution from Government's budgets. The challenge of the Workers' Party's chief spokeswoman, Fossli, did not go to the position, but to the representative Olav Aksen. I find reason to follow up that challenge, and it can be good, as the accent is the next speaker on the list of speakers. When we call for cleanliness, I would like to ask the Akssen that he now uses the opportunity to talk a little about what was going on in the talks Statkraft and Fortum had when Akssen was Minister of Oil and Energy in the country. Did the representative Aksensen when he was Minister of Energy know that there were merger talks between Statkraft and Finnish Fortum? Did Aksensen have direct contact with any of the members of the board or any of the Government's administration at the time these discussions took place? Did Akselsen then even express any particular views about shinning these conversations? Or did it flare up like this, which would have been quite normal, not to start such discussions, such conversations, if you don't mean this in the most serious sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1842	It's right to claim that the development of modern Norway began when we put our foot force into action. Using foreign capital and partly foreign labour, the industrialisation of Norway began. Over the decades, our hydropower skills were built up, and Norway became one of the leading hydropower countries in the world. We gained knowledge at all stages of the expansion and of the performance of power, from dam construction via turbine production to world-class engineering. Norway, of course, had and has the natural intentions, but there are also many other countries in the world that have, without them being closed in the same way as we have. One of the reasons we have closed down is that we have pursued a sensible and successful policy in this area. As I said, it was mainly foreign companies that got an eye on the potential of our fetuses. Many of them were probably the first years to secure cheap fallrights from an unknowing local population around the country. But soon, national politicians became interested in what was about to happen, and in the Norwegian natural resource that was about to end up on foreign hands. The concession laws made it possible to combine the desire for national control with the desire for further development. In my view, there are very few political decisions that through history have been as successful as the concession law decision. Today, this law is the same. Those who stood behind the decision in its time were leading by its time, and should be a precedent for others. Unfortunately, there is a plurality in this room that will throw waste on the legacy of that time, that is, the desire for national control over this natural resource. Based on the settings in the two matters we are dealing with today, we see that this moment does not seem to be particularly important anymore. The power market in Europe is changing completely. It's getting fewer and larger companies, and competition is getting tougher. In this country, we have seen the same trend. Many Norwegian municipalities want to exit the power industry, local power companies have been purchased or merged. For the Workers' Party, it has been important that Norway's energy country also has companies that have the ability to assert themselves in international competition. For the Workers' Party, it has also been a goal that there should be Norwegian buyers when Norwegian power plants were for sale. In addition, it has been a goal to secure a large amount of public ownership for our hydropower. Our tool to achieve these objectives is State Power. We have therefore tried to facilitate the development of the company. With the rapid changes we see in the power industry, financial freedom of action is decisive. The Labour Party has therefore, through history, supported Statkraft's capital requests, and the Stoltenberg government proposed 50 pst. as a dividend policy. The money that the state has so far placed in Statkraft has given particularly good returns. That is good, but even more important to us is that it has given the company a freedom of action and the possibility to join in and buy. when Norwegian power stations are on sale. After the last major purchase, Statkraft has been ordered by the Competition Authority to sell in other power plants. This requires the Government to confirm. Even though I personally ask a lot of questions about this, it means that Statkraft can no longer be the tool it has been. There are now limits to how much the company can grow in Norway. Instead of being an active provider when Norwegian hydropower is now available, it is the company itself that has to become a seller. Instead of leaning back and stating that the toolbox is empty, as others do, we would rather create a new tool for the new situation. Everything suggests that the process of salvo of Norwegian hydropower will continue. The Labour Party has the objective of national and public ownership by law. That is why we have proposed different ways of doing this. I must admit that I am somewhat surprised by the reactions to the proposals. In particular, I am surprised that the Christian People's Party no longer seems to be busy securing Norwegian ownership of the water force. Despite the Christian People's Party trying to minimize what they're into, the Government's proposal, and not least the basis for the conversion, is actually a privatisation proposal. By opening up solutions where the state is no longer the sole owner, as the Government is doing now, a government is also giving itself the political power to use. Energy laws now work for well and well twelve years. It is very positive to say about the experience with it. We may have had a much better use of resources, but at one important point we have promised to fail. She has not been involved in producing enough production. The market has no balance between supply and demand. If Statkraft is privatized, politicians will be able to produce more production in Norway. Last winter's experience suggests to me that we need more, and not less, political governance. The policy-defined power contracts of large parts of the power-intensive industry are about to go out. It happens in a period where the force price seems to continue upward. For many companies, it could mean a triple of the prices of power. It goes without saying that this is going to be very difficult for these companies. The danger of deflagration is great. I am therefore pleased that the Labour Party has been given multiple numbers to ask the Government for the benefit of replacing these contracts with new ones, which is within the current EEA Agreement. However, a provision for a new industrial power regime is that the State has the power to intervene in such a scheme. Another factor that determines the future power of Norway is the downfall and the selection that has been set to deal with the future of the Home Fall Institute. I think it is regrettable that today's result has reduced our chances of adopting a relapse system as we would like. That's why I think it would have been a good idea to wait for the conversion to an AS to the setting if the Home Occurrence Institute was ready. It has been said that the company Statkraft should have the same framework as other operators in the market. I am, of course, very much in agreement. Nevertheless, the greatest difference between Statkraft and those with whom they compete has been our dividend policy, and not least the total lack of persuasion when it comes to dividend policy, which we have seen in recent years is a 95-pst dividend, which the Government wants to continue. In my view, it's an effective way to undermine Statkraft's position. The Government's response to Statkraft's application for the capital extension has been that the company must sell away and thus strengthen the capital situation of the company. Although I disagree with such a strategy, I see that there may be a way to go, but at the same time I understand that the company is very skeptical, all the time it is not 100 pst. Of course, these money won't end up in the treasury. I hope the Council of State will confirm what is a plural comment from the Committee, that such gains should not be included in the calculation of the dividend. It's the way the Stoltenberg government got a 50 pst pass. dividends, and the minimum after that is 85 pst. In any case, it has shown me that such decisions are of little importance. If they are to be fulfilled, they must be made more concrete. Therefore, the Labour Party has put forward proposals to include dividend policy in the law, so that it is governed by the state of the company that decides what is to be the dividend, and not the Stortinget when they lack money for good action in a late evening. It is such that someone has made an attempt to make me a witness to the fact that the Government's policy in this area is wrong. Of course, I have to interpret this positively, that it is nice to have me on the team. However, the claims that are made are false to my activity. I put forward a case on Statkraft when I was the Council of State and was responsible in this area. This matter had one main objective: to make State power, within today's framework, able to participate in the restructuring that took place in Norway and in Europe. So I went in for a capital increase and an extra loan guarantee, so that Statkraft became a much more powerful company. I had no suggestion to rethink Statkraft, and I think it's my suggestions from the period when I was the Council of State, which has to count when it comes to sum up what I've done and didn't do. So it's true that I knew that there was a dialogue between Statkraft and other companies. It was never so that there was any support from me after that dialogue, on the contrary, that I was informed that if there is a need to move forward with these kinds of things, we have in no way given any previews of what will be the outcome of such a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1883	The government has in St.prp. No 53 for 2003-2004, State ownership of Statkraft SF, prepared an owner strategy that implies a more focused strategic development for Statkraft, while maintaining a clear Norwegian anchoring of the company. Based on the strong position of Statkraft in hydropower generation, the Government will focus on operating profitable renewable energy production and trading, but with the possibility of operating activities which are inherently related to this. State power shall be a commercial undertaking which competes on equal terms with other power producers. This also implies the same return on invested capital as in similar companies. State power may also invest outside Norway, where there is a commercial and financial basis for it. Any significant investment outside the Nordic region should be made together with industrial partners, and must be based on and supported by the core areas of Statkraft. I am pleased to note that the majority of the population today will support these key elements of the Government's State Power Ownership Strategy. This helps to create predictability and stability for the company and will provide a good basis for its further development. The government stated in the ownership notice that Statekraft should be transformed into a limited liability company. The form of the public limited liability company is well known in the market and the most widespread form of organising commercial activities of a certain size. However, as stated in the Government’s proposal, today’s concession law conditions do not facilitate a full transformation into a limited liability company. However, pending a change in the rules on the surrender, it is important that State power has as much a framework as its competitors. In the submission, the Government therefore proposes that the activities of Statkraft should be organised in accordance with a group model with underlying limited liability companies, where production activities and network activities are separated. The State enterprise will be retained as a parent company in the group. The proposal implies that State power is more subject to the same framework conditions as most other actors in the power market and will contribute to making State power more competitive. Another advantage is that the results of each business line will be more pronounced than today, facilitating a stronger follow-up to the different business lines. The proposal is also in line with the intentions of the Energy Act and the new EU Electricity Directive, which are leading the organisation of competitive and monopoly-based activities. In this case, it has been speculated whether the Government in this case opens up a partial privatisation of State power. I would like to stress that the Government has not proposed any partial privatisation, but that, just as in the ownership message two years ago, we have indicated that the Government is open to state power being part of industrial solutions where the state is no longer the sole owner. A possible industrial solution will be presented to the Stortinget in the usual way, which I have announced on several occasions. It will therefore continue to be the Stortinget which has the decisive word for the possible partial privatization of State power. The Government has reason to believe that the reorganisation should be carried out in accordance with ordinary legal rules to avert potential State aid problems and any claims of discrimination. It still has in Ot. pp. No 63 for 2003-2004, About the Law on the Reorganisation of State Power SF, it was necessary to propose legal regulation whereby contracting parties cannot oppose the transfer of contracts and obligations to an underlying limited liability company. This is the practice for in many past transformations of state activities, as we do, for example. have seen the transformation of Telenor, NSB, Posten and more. The Government has also made proposals for the abolition of the Statkraft loan and guarantee framework. This helps to give State power more equal framework conditions to those of other power companies. I also notice that the Stortinget today will ask the Government to base the standard rules of the Share Act on determining dividends from Statkraft. In addition, there is also a proposal to compensate for the document fee. I will, as always, seek in the best way to follow up the decisions of the Stortinget. It must also, of course, be such that the follow-up to the decision of the Storting must take place within the framework of the legislation in force, including the rules deriving from the EEA Agreement. I am pleased that the majority on the Great Britain through the treatment today supports the main points of the Government's ownership strategy for State Power. It is one of the most significant and most valuable companies in Norway. For this reason, it is our joint responsibility to ensure that State power can have a framework for its activities that allows the company to maintain and further develop its competitiveness. Today’s treatment is an important step in such a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1906	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1909	It is such that the background for promoting and dealing with this Storing Message is for it to provide clarification. She should be an important management tool both for the government and for the government, but I will also believe in Statkraft and Statkraft's government. At some points, I feel that this message, and not least the setting, is very clarifying. It is such that a single committee has clarified that the winnings, if any, should not be counted when determining dividends. I hope the Council of State can confirm that that is what it wants to do. Otherwise, when it comes to dividends, I'm somewhat more uncertain about what the committee has come up with. I could only imagine asking what the Council of State would advise its colleagues: should one go at least 75 pst., as the Government has proposed, or 50 pst., which is what a majority in the Committee is in favour of?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1918	It is in the nature of the matter, whether it is the Statkraft case or other matters - the representative Akssens indicated that an overall committee has expressed itself in relation to any sales gains in the realization of holdings one might have in other companies, it has previously been mentioned in the debate Sydkraft and others - that in the dividend dialogue one always has, between the owner, the department, and the company concerned, it is those we own in whole or in part, of course this will be a very central part of it. Then the representative asked Akselsen - after he himself stated that he was uncertain about what the committee said - about dividends. I think the vote at the end could have a bearing on how to interpret it, but given that it is one that can be assumed, it is quite clear that on a very broad basis the Committee believes that a 50 pst. dividends policy over time is the rental to be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1925	I still feel that there is something unclear about dividend policy. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are behind a proposal that should naturally have a majority. I'll read it out: "The Government asks the Government to base the ordinary rules of the Share Act on the determination of dividends from Statkraft SF." Does it mean, if the board follows the standard provisions of the Shares Act at point and point - that determines dividends based on business, strategic decisions, operational operations, expectation of dividends, etc. --that the council then will not go in and instruct the board of directors about anything that is different? This is important to clarify in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1935	Perhaps the wording of the proposal to which it was referred shows some of the background that the representative Aksen said he was somewhat in doubt. So when the representative Hedstrøm, who is the head of one of the parties to this remark, asks the Council of State to interpret what is in the two lines, my assessment is that what is in the proposal is simply that the Government is asked to base the normal rules of the Share Act. The normal rule of the Share Act is that the Board of Directors proposes a dividend to the general meeting. As far as I remember, the General Assembly has two options. That's accepting it or doing something about the board. As a government council, I consider it impractical to instruct the board about the level of dividends. But there's always, as I said in my previous answer, a dialogue between the owner and any government about what's going to be the dividends in each year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1940	On page 33 of the proposal: "State power today does not have financial strength alone to build a large integrated European company." My question to the Council of State is: are there plans to build a large European integrated company? Does the Council of State and the Government plan to merge State power so that it succeeds? Then I have another question. This applies to dividend policy. Does the Council of State feel that it is right to continue in the future with a dividend policy that will keep State power so low in yielding seas, if you want Statkraft to be a powerful company in the areas in which we want to invest? For the SV part, it is in the context of new renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1952	Firstly, with regard to whether State power has the capital to develop into a fully integrated company on a European scale, it is clear that even though State power is large, there are financial constraints on what can be done. But what has been raised beyond doubt is that with the total capital base that the company has, there are opportunities to do quite a lot of structural action, even if it will mean the ability to raise capital, but primarily by relocating some of the capital that you already have. In the case of what is a sound yield or not, it is not a percentage that is a measure of what is sound or not. It is based on the overall situation of the company. If it is a company that has come into a mature phase, harvesting can be most topical, or it is expansion that is relevant. There's the big difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1960	In its submission, the Council of State states that the purpose of the reorganisation is to strengthen the competitive situation of the State. The proposition also states that the balance sheet of the company should be strengthened, inter alia. through the sale and reinvestment or repayment of liabilities. The Ministry considers it important that no lock-in effects are created which prevent the necessary restructuring of the company when it is sold. Reference is made to the sale of holdings. This is used as a justification for a continuing high dividend from the company. The reasons used in sum at several points in the proposition are a little remarkable, as it is said that the purchase of minority shares is largely financed by debt. But when you look at page 29 of the proposal, where there is an overview of the company's equity and the company's long-term debt, you will see that from 2000 to 2003, equity has increased by DKK 14 billion and long-term debt by the same amount, while operating profit has increased from NOK 2 billion to NOK 6 billion. It shows a very solid company, where the balance sheet is not impaired by the purchases made. Can the Council of State please explain how the balance should be strengthened in the event of a sale?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1967	It is such that the portfolio of ownership interests held by Statkraft, to which the representative refers, has been funded differently. It is also the case that the liquidity of the positions held is different. Some of the positions are very liquid and can be traded very quickly. It is well known that the South Force position is such a position. With regard to the balance sheet, it is of course that disposal of very liquid positions does not have the same influence, for example, on rating. It is clear that the value of a liquid item is already discounted in the rating that the company has. In terms of reorganisation, and that it is a first step in terms of privatisation, I have to say in the end: this company has been reorganised for the last 15-20 years three-four times, just to make it market-based and competitive at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1974	Today's debate has largely revolved around what can happen in the future. It was interesting to hear the Council of State when he said in his statement that they did not propose, but opened up any partial privatisation in this matter. Since we talked about the future earlier in the debate, can the Council of States say something about when he sees that they might "want to make proposals about"?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1979	I can say something about that. There are many concepts that are confusing in the air, but let me make it perfectly clear: it is not up to this government to propose partial privatization of State power, as the Workers' Party did with Telenor and Statoil. It's not up to date. What's current is what's in St.meld. No 22 for 2001-2002 - which was promoted more than two years ago - and which has been repeated in the proposition we are discussing now, namely that possible industrial solutions can be an alternative to State power, after exactly the same thinking and strategy as it was when Statkraft discussed and negotiated with Fortum, with the blessing of the State Council Act. It is no more, and it is no less, than what is the Government's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1984	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. First Anne Kathrine Slungård, then Ingvild Vaggen Malvik. The President would also like to draw attention to the fact that there should be a limited need for three-minute posts after such a long debate with so many lines, and ask the representatives to take into account the fact that there are issues on today's map after this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e1991	This debate, which is really about an organisational form of State power, has become very much a debate on possible future partial privatisation or not. An organisational debate - how to organise a business - is about how to give a company space for action and as much as possible equal conditions to those of the other actors in the power industry, for the further development and management of the enormous values that Statkraft has. I think it is a bit alarming that the Workers' Party in particular makes it a matter of public ownership. I hear, and take note, that the Workers' Party clearly believes that in the future, states, counties and municipalities will be engaged in economic risk sports by continuing to have 100 pst. ownership of perhaps the most risky industry in existence. But what has happened in a very short time? The Labour Party has historically been responsible for most of the privatisation of the Norwegian energy sector. They took the initiative in the partial privatisation of Statoil and that Statoil must be positioned for the future. This can only happen through partial privatisation, says the Workers' Party's Energy Policy Spokesman, Tore Nordtun, to the Evening Post in May 2000. When the Workers' Party was in government last, they went in for the privatisation of Telenor, Statoil, reduced ownership of Raufoss, privatisation of Norsk Medisinaldepot, desire for the privatisation of Olivin, further privatisation of DnB, K-bank, Statkorn Holding, Kongsberg Group, SAS, Norwegian Waste Management - the list is long. The left-hand side claims that hydropower is an eternal resource and therefore must be owned by the public. Applies to the same principle for other eternal natural resources, such as: fish and forest? What are the underlying principles? It's not easy to see it. It is also not easy to see what has happened internally in the Workers' Party in a very short time. For the right, this discussion concerns the fact that State power should have the best possible framework conditions and a level playing field with the other actors in one global industry. Our heritage, whether energy, fish, forests or other natural resources, is best managed through an organisational form that provides companies with a level playing field. It provides a return that benefits the public in terms of both safe electricity supply and well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2002	In my opinion, the Government, by means of the Progress Party, is in the process of making a more dramatic change in Norwegian hydropower supply than the introduction of the Energy Act resulted. A few years ago, the government tried to bring about a major change in concession laws without proper investigation, but the Stortinget forced the government to put down a public sample, the so-called Homefall Committee, to assess this in more detail. A few months ago, the government reopened the concession rules, this time for small power, in the middle of the Home Affairs Committee's work, without being able to explain the consequences of future hydroelectric installations with investments in the hundreds of millions of people no longer being covered by the fall-back scheme. This amendment was adopted with the support of the Progress Party. Today, we are dealing with the government's second attempt to privatize state power. The first attempt was stopped, precisely with reference to the fact that you would first have the Home Fall Committee setting on the table. But it doesn't seem that important anymore. The Government’s AS-certification of Statkraft opens the way for foreign ownership of Norwegian hydropower resources. Privatisation promotion also makes regional energy companies, such as 100 pst. Statkraft-eide Trondheim Energieverk, faces an uncertain future. In addition, it is sad that the decision of the Storting to seek out a new generation of long-term power contracts can be less valuable today. The possibility of offering long-term subsidised electricity contracts to industry has been severely weakened by the implementation of the Energy Act and the EEA Agreement, respectively. But we in SV have also pointed out that the best remaining card we have on our hand is the state ownership of State power. Indeed, it is fully possible to consider agreements between Statkraft and Norwegian industry on, for example, energy efficiency improvement measures, which would have reduced industry costs and thus improved competitiveness. This is an opportunity we close with other people than the state on the owner's side. Finally, there is one question that this debate has not given a good answer to: why is it so important for the Government to adopt this change? The strategy and justification of privatisation of the Progress Party is obvious, but what the Christian People's Party really wants with Norwegian hydropower is a mystery to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2013	It is fully argued in the proposition to convert State power from a State enterprise to an AS, including to give State power the same framework conditions as other market players, and to further develop the company. It may be that it's good for Statkraft to be transformed into an AS, but it's primarily our responsibility to consider what's best for you and me, or -- maybe the most --what's best for the next generations. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to maintain national and public ownership and political governance. Hydropower is our most important natural resource. Hydropower is an eternal resource. Our hydropower can't put a price tag on or put it out for sale, because the hydropower belongs to next generations. Therefore, it is important for the Christian People's Party that we retain national and public ownership, and therefore it is also important for the Christian People's Party to maintain political governance with the most important natural resource we have. With regard to the debate on the question of whether the conversion from an SF to an AS may be a first step towards opening up State power privatisation, it is essential that it is not possible to sell State power shares or to enter into a merger where State power is involved, without being dealt with in the Stortinget. This determines a broad majority, consisting of both the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the SV and the Center Party, in a decision of their own today. Today's debate has asked questions several times about what the Christian People's Party really means. The Christian People's Party does not want State power to be privatized. The Christian People's Party wants State Power to retain Norwegian, state ownership and be subject to political governance. State power is in a special position in relation to all state corporations in respect of ownership. To quote the parliamentary leader Jon Lilletun said in a debate when we got the ownership message: "I would say, of course, that Statkraft is an example of a company that has an important administrative character and should remain on state hands." If, or when, in the future, there would be a matter for the Storing about the sale of shares, the Christian People's Party will hold on to this. Finally, if there is an industrial solution or merger, it is not the case for the Christian People's Party that State power participates in any merger where state ownership comes into disrepute. There must be no doubt that the Christian People's Party wants to maintain political control over the hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2035	I have to comment on a few of the claims that came from the Right. The first one is that there's so much risk of sitting with the hydropower. Is there a high risk of ownership of State power? The day the state can't make money on Statkraft, that day I don't think we'll ever experience, and I can't see that there's any risk at all if we own Statkraft. The second claim is from the representative Kristiansen, who is concerned that we have a fear of foreign capital. Had the Right got what the representative of Kristiansen wants, and as the Right wanted when the concession laws were in place, it would have been largely aliens who had had the right to the hydropower in Norway. But luckily, there were lots the time that managed to take the Right and put them in place, so that we have harvested those values for years to come. I am very pleased that the Right at the time did not get their will, but this time they have partly got it. In the end, I want to say that I think this has been an interesting debate, because on several occasions we've got to the right on the track, they're clearly saying that they really want to do something more than just turn it into AS, you want to privatize it. It is also in agreement with the Progress Party. So I think it's going to be a tough fight in the future to avoid starting with partial privatization. I think we are making a wrong decision in Stortinget today. And once when I get old and sit in my rocking chair and have a great-grandchild on hold, at least I'm going to say, it wasn't the old man's fault that they did this with the hydropower! I did the best I could.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2044	First: I am happy that Inge Ryan has the plans for the future ready! I thought Bjørg Tørresdal had a very exciting and good post, but that is not what is the Christian People's Party's position in this matter. For what the Christian People's Party has agreed to today is to agree that State Power can have owners other than the state, and that is not the content of its articles. On the contrary, the Council of State confirmed in its statement that the Government has now received support to allow State power to proceed with plans to merge with other companies in such a way that State power is given to owners other than the State. To me, it is still somewhat unclear what the majority of people think about the dividend policy of Statkraft. Is it the owner or is it the board that is to make this decision? I choose to believe that there's a multiple that means we're going to focus on a dividend policy of 50 pst, and not a minimum of 75 pst, as the government suggests. But personally I have to say that I am very excited about the outcome and do not believe this until I see it. There's only one way to do this carefully, in my view, and that's to leave the same rules for the government of State power as for the government of all other big corporations, that it's the government that makes the decision. Then someone knows what one has to stick to. I am afraid that today we are agreeing that the dividend policy that has been pursued over the later years should continue. The real reason why I asked for the word was that I wanted to take a great distance from the reality of what the Council of State gave in relation to what happened to Statkraft at the time I was in charge of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. It is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2055	Then it is all the more surprising that the representative Akssen does not use the opportunity this time to explain to Stortinget what is correct or had to be correct. I am quite convinced that today's Council of State will be able to tell the leadership of Statkraft about its views on both the issue of stock exchange listing and the question of sub-privatisation, an issue that is not relevant, and which has not been proposed. However, the representative Akselsen did not take the opportunity to explain what happened in 2002, and it is quite interesting to get an explanation of these questions, all the time the Workers' Party has taken the position it has done in today's case, in view of the merger talks that took place two years back in time between the Finnish Fortum and Statkraft. And in today's Business Day, April 11, 2002, the then State Council Aksensen stated: "Sonderingene has been going on for a long time, even in my period as State Council." In addition, he stated that an alternative was the creation of a holding company and that there was no automatic link in the fact that this would have led to a stock exchange introduction. In the light of today's debate, do we have to wonder whether the then State Council Act was misplaced in today's economic life, or was it such that long, nitite negotiations were conducted with the Finnish Fortum and the State Power SF without meaning anything about this? It is important to clarify these issues, given that this debate seems to have revealed that the Workers' Party has made a 180-degree turnaround in these most vital and important issues for the future of Statkraft as an industrial policy actor in both Norwegian and international contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2063	The representative of Olav Akselsen has spoken twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2066	I do not think at all that this question brings the debate forward in a meaningful way. What is quite clear is that what was the previous government's policy in this area has been found in the documents that that government has presented to the Stortinget. Otherwise, I have settled whether what I think is necessary in this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2071	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 6 and 7 are dealt with as a whole - and consider it adopted. [[See pages 3256 and 3257]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2100	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted. In agreement with the President, the Minister for Oil and Energy has asked to extend his speaking time somewhat in order to provide information on the latest developments in the Snow White project. In order to give the other participants in the debate the opportunity to respond to the Council's briefing, the President will propose that the Steensnæs Council should provide this briefing before the ordinary debate starts, and that he should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2115	The snow-white development was dealt with and approved in Stortinget on 7 March 2002, after St.prp. No 35 for 2001-2002 was submitted. With the assumptions at the time of the decision, the cost framework for the project was approximately NOK 40 billion. The Ministry was first briefed on possible cost increases for the Snow White project in September 2002. In a letter to Statoil on 30 September 2002, the Ministry asked that the management of the project should immediately inform the Ministry if there was significant new information on Snow White LNG in addition to the regular cost updates. In December 2002, it became clear that the increase in costs would be greater than expected when the Ministry was first briefed. An information was provided to the Stortinget about the case on 12 December and 17 December. Total cost increases for the project were then expected to be DKK 5.8 billion, mainly as a result of the underestimated 50 pst for the land site. in the development plans submitted to Stortinget. In the autumn of 2003 it was known that progress in parts of the project had been delayed. The construction of the LNG facility on barges at the Dragados yard in Spain did not work as expected. Statoil informed at the time that they did not expect the delay to lead to cost increases in addition to the approved estimate. Statoil further expected the other parts of the Snow White project to be completed according to plans and cost estimates, so that the discharge of leaks and start-up of committed gas supplies could proceed as planned. Statoil now informs us that the project will be delayed. Statoil states that the main reasons for this are: the immaturity of the project at the time of the decision-making of missing and delayed deliveries of drawings and materials from the main contractor of mobilisation and low productivity on main workshop tests carried out in May 2004 shows that central refrigeration compressors need to be modified in order to meet specified requirements. Statoil, as an operator for the Snow White Development, briefed me last week that costs increases and delays are expected on Snow White. The operator estimates the cost increase to NOK 4 to NOK 6 billion and discloses that the risk has increased significantly to allow regular gas supplies to be delayed between six and twelve months compared to the original plans. Statoil states that the project continues to meet the company's profitability requirements, but that robustness is impaired. It is important to stress that what we now have is a very preliminary and therefore incomplete picture of the situation. It is therefore difficult to be more specific at this point in time on the causes and consequences of the project. Of course, it is very unfortunate and regrettable that it is now clear that there will be both a delay in time and a cost gap for this important project. Statoil depends on both market and owner confidence in future challenges both in Norwegian and foreign markets. I am informed that Statoil as an operator is now implementing a number of measures to ensure the proper implementation of the project. I expect the best to be done to keep cost developments and further progress under control. The Ministry will continue to monitor closely the development of the project, based on the reporting scheme established for this project. I would also like to follow up this briefing with a letter to Stortinget. As soon as there is a clearer picture of the cost development of the project, during the autumn, I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2149	The size has recorded that the Council of State will come back with concrete information in an appropriate manner at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2152	On behalf of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, as rapporteur, I present the opinion on St.meld. No 38 for 2003-2004 and Document No 8:39 for 2003-2004 on oil recovery rates, etc. I would like to thank the Committee for its speedy and good work and for its willingness to find good majority comments and Roman number decisions on important issues. I also refer to the position of the Financial Committee to the revised budget, which addresses fiscal issues relating to petroleum activities. The petroleum industry is our second most important industry, both in terms of export value, cash flow to the state treasury and technological challenges of extracting oil and gas from large sea depths in an economically sound manner. Our large supplier industry is closely linked to and dependent on the level of activity of the socket. It is therefore of great importance that we have a good balance between exploration, production planning and extraction, and that the most competent actors find it attractive to operate on a Norwegian base. The background to the kerosene notification is precisely this: how are we to ensure good and profitable development on a Norwegian base, and how are we to ensure that this activity can be carried out with a strong focus on safety for employees and with as low an environmental impact as possible? Petroleum activities have, from the outset, been subject to stringent requirements for the protection of the environment. Over the years, the requirements have become more stringent and it is gratifying that the petroleum activity on Norwegian base is an example for the whole industry. There is no need to conceal the uncertainty that has spread through the fact that some large oil companies can refer to projects with better profitability in other parts of the world. Although the petroleum industry has a profitability well above what is normal for Norwegian industry, we cannot ignore the fact that the governments of such companies, whether in Paris, London or Houston, Stavanger or Oslo, assess individual projects against each other and prioritise projects with the highest profitability, corrected for political and economic stability in the countries concerned. The cancellation notice therefore focuses on how to ensure a continued high interest in exploration and extraction on a Norwegian base. There is a very high level of competence both in oil companies and in the supplier industry from the start of the Norwegian base. This is a competence that it is important to develop further and take care of. One of the major challenges facing Norwegian industry is to be helped to internationalise its activities. The international oil companies can contribute to this by inviting them to tender for other offshore projects internationally, provided that our companies are competitive in design, engineering and execution. If we're going to do this, it's going to have to be tasks for this part of the industry on both Norwegian and international bases. The most important thing to ensure such even, high activity on the base is to stimulate the search and opening of new exciting petroleum provinces. The Barents Sea is such an exciting, promising exploration area. There are some batches that have created uncertainties as to what the communication actually means in terms of activity in the Barents Sea. Let me make it clear again that large parts of the Barents Sea are open to all-year petroleum activity, and that the procedures for assessing the search results are entirely in line with normal practice. It should therefore be possible to expect a uniform and predictable activity in this exciting sea area. Other exciting and prospective areas are Nordland VI, Nordland VII and Troms II. These areas will be assessed for petroleum activity in relation to the management plan under consideration. The majority of the Committee points out that this work must follow the initial progress plan. Although the majority believe it is important to increase exploration activity and make good progress in the extraction of petroleum on our base, it is absolutely necessary that the projects are well planned. The last few days' information about another billion dollars crack on Snow White clearly shows how important the planning of such challenging projects is. There must now be a strong signal from this room. Such exceedances make it difficult to establish the enthusiasm and goodwill that are often necessary for projects to be approved within strict deadlines. The majority of the Committee also subscribes to the broad lines of the proposed package of measures proposed by the Government. It contains proposals based on previous decisions to open up larger fishing areas, including parts of the Barents Sea. It contains proposals for tax incentives, cost-reduction measures, research efforts, efficient use of infrastructure and measures to strengthen the petroleum cluster. It is not surprising that several of the opposition parties consider that these measures are not sufficient, particularly on the tax side and in relation to the areas that are released for exploration. It is more surprising that the Workers’ Party cannot be included in a note stating that the cost level of Norwegian pedestal is high and that it should be actively worked to bring the level of costs more into line with that of other oil producing countries in the West. This is not just about relationships that have been agreed between the social partners. There is also a great deal of concern about the requirements and regulations to which the industry is subject and how licensing, contract forms, regulatory measures, etc. designed by the authorities. And to avoid misunderstandings: I don't mean by this that planning and cost management should be reduced - on the contrary. With an oil price of around USD 40, it is reasonable to believe that the incentives proposed and the outsourcing of exciting search areas will ensure a high level of activity in the future. Nevertheless, it is important, not least for the country’s current receipts from the petroleum industry, to recognise that oil prices can change rapidly. To this end, a large majority of the Committee emphasises the need to follow closely the situation so that any corrective and reinforced incentives can be quickly deployed by the Government. There's a lot of stuff on the pedestal that's important. So far, the large Norwegian and international companies have largely dominated the activity. The great interest of the very best companies has undoubtedly been very good, yes, I would say crucial, for the development of the base. But with the maturity of large parts of the socket now, it is important to expand the number of players on the base by bringing in companies that have both competence, capital and a cost structure that makes them more interested in smaller fields and in tail production in order to clear the fields as far as is sound. Some of the tax proposals are therefore specifically targeted at new actors. In this respect, the majority of the Committee also points out that the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Petoro should assess the different shares of the SED and assess whether some of them can be developed more rationally and economically by other companies. Petroleum extraction and use pose environmental challenges. Norway has undertaken commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Both authorities and companies are involved in extensive research projects on CO2 clean-up and in developing cost-effective methods for using CO2 as pressure support for major extraction from the fields on the base. Only a small percentage increase in the extraction rate from the oil fields will generate very large additional revenues both to the licensees and to the country. It is tempting here to use the analogy of a well-known advertisement for Saturday good: there are three things at once! If we can be a leader in separating CO2 from both gas streams from the fields, from exhaust gas by burning petroleum and using CO2 economically in increased oil extraction, then I look forward optimistically to the future both for oil companies, the current supplier industry and the environment. Furthermore, such technologies can open up the construction of gas power stations with CO2 management and thus also ensure our electricity supply. The majority of the Committee therefore supports the Government's proposal to grant new DKK 1 billion to the Research Fund for Intensified Research and Innovation in the sector. In order to ensure a faster assessment of the profitability of the licences granted, the majority of the Committee would point out that future licences should be subject to a time limit for the start-up of petroleum extraction and, if licensees do not start up within the time limit, licences should be revoked. In this respect, the Committee points out that there are several smaller fields that are not yet planned to be developed. The majority of the Committee asks the Government, in cooperation with the oil companies, to carry out a review of such projects and to consider measures to speed up implementation. It is natural that we in Norway are concerned that our suppliers are competitive and can win contracts on both Norwegian and other countries' base, but at the same time we must of course accept that our companies do not always reach them. However, it is recorded that some companies from other countries that have won such contracts have been subsequently investigated for having received incorrect State aid. A majority of the Committee therefore requests the Government to review the competitive situation in this area in order to ensure that there is a genuine competition in the tenders. The notification of the Petroleum has been an interesting and comprehensive matter for the Committee. I am pleased with the measures proposed by the Government and to which an alternate majority of the Committee has joined. We rely on a good and profitable development of Norwegian pedestal. The implementation of the proposed measures should be able to make a strong contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2190	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2193	Let me first point out that the Workers' Party is very aware that the cost level of the socket is high, but we do not think the Stortinge should care about the part of the agreement between the social partners. It's true, as Onarheim points out, that there's a lot in this setting that we agree on. But with regard to the Barents Sea, the representative onarheim says that this is an uncertainty - and if the representative didn't say it directly, I think he's targeting the Workers' Party. I'd like to refer to a chronicle that was printed in VG yesterday, from the county rapporteur in Finnmark and the county councillor in Troms, where it says: "We look with optimism at what the Oil Message says about the Barents Sea. However, there is one ambiguity, which we have brought up with Minister of Oil Steensnæs in the form of letters. In the message he says that the government will await the results of the three very exciting drillings that start in November, before it says yes to searching in new areas. We don't want new breaks next year." Why doesn't Onarheim agree to say that blocks can be released already in 2005, if this is not an uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2205	I am pleased that the representative Brustad at least accepts that this is a high level of costs, and that it is preferable to do something about it. I do not fully understand the uncertainty that is created and to which she refers. In 2005, blocks are declared, but it takes time for them to be realised. I allow myself to quote from St.meld. 39 for 1999-2000, by the Government of Stoltenberg: "For the South of the Barents Sea, the need for new concession awards will depend on the exploration of the existing extraction permits, in particular in the area allocated to the Barents Sea Project in 1997. So it's important to get an overview of any possible findings. The government has agreed to this. We agree. There may be an even activity in the Barents Sea, and blocks are being proclaimed, but you can't start looking at them until you've been through the process of the companies. This is quite common and as we've decided in Stortinget in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2217	One of the most important steps to maintain the level of activity of the socket, according to a total of oil clusters, is to take certain tax measures. The volume deduction as well as the reduction of the special tax on new fields is, once again according to the oil industry, the most important step to achieve this. The right, at least before they got into government, has used every opportunity to market the merits of tax reliefs, and in particular highlighted that tax reliefs stimulate increased value creation. This could be a good opportunity to show it in practice. Can the representative of Onarheim explain to me why the Right has completely changed the tax policy after they were put in government and took care of the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2224	There is a clear reason why the representative Vaksdal and I have a slightly different view of this. The Progress Party has not been in government and has not had a finance minister. It is clear that it is absolutely essential for our society to collect tax revenue properly. I don't think the Norwegian people would understand that when the oil price is $40 a.m. barrel, then what's most important now is to give tax relief. There are some activities going on. It doesn't look so wrong in the future, if we get the search up. And the majority of the committee says that we have to follow this closely. If we get into a situation where we suddenly get a falling activity beyond what we see now, we have to do something-- but there we are not now. I don't think it would be understood either by the Norwegian people or by the majority of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2231	I would like to begin by commending the Right and Government parties, and in particular the case-rapporteur, for the negotiated result that they were able to achieve, which ensures that the Co-Existence Committee is now to be extended to include environmental and legal competence. This means that, in the basis to be drawn up in relation to the management plan, there is also the possibility of obtaining non-commercial environmental assessments, while at the same time obtaining legal assessments. So here the right has seen the need for a leading product approximation. But the question is whether the Right can also show a vision in another area. On 1 January, the so-called Environmental Information Act entered into force, which guarantees the public the right of access to, for example: the use of environmentally hazardous chemicals. But this kind of information is often held back by being business secrets. My question is therefore: how can a zero emission target be checked and verified if that type of information is not made public?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2239	We have clear rules on how to control the oil business. It is quite right, as the representative Vaggen Malvik said, that we agreed with the SV to go for an extension of the Sam Existence Committee. It's like there's a little bargain in this room, and there were questions about getting a majority for some other things, and we thought there was something you could agree to. But as for how to control this with zero emissions, which is of course a difficult matter - I don't want to hide it for a moment - we have control bodies that are going to take care of it. What would not be very fortunate in my view is that all the environmental organisations should sit up there and take measurements all the time. I think that will only disturb and create a completely wrong impression of the petroleum activity we have up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14.ana.ud2629e2248	The changed regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that the meeting now be cancelled, and that a new meeting be set at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox - It is deemed to have been adopted.
