ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e32	The called alternate from the More and Romsdal counties, Ola T. Heggem, has taken the seat. From the Christian People's Party Group there is an application for sick leave from the representative Arne Lyngstad from 2 June until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Astri Wessel, is called to meet during the period of leave. Astri Wessel is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e74	On Friday, the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik State Council Morten Andreas Meyer The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e90	I have a question for the Prime Minister. We have a long and good tradition in Norway for strong public ownership of hydropower resources. It has ensured strong national ownership, and it has secured the community's income from these eternal natural resources that we have in Norway. There is now a risk of weakening national ownership, partly because Statkraft has been required to sell itself down, partly because a large number of municipalities and municipalities are considering selling out their holdings. In order to ensure continued national ownership of hydropower resources, a majority here in Stortinget has taken steps to increase the country’s access to investment in power supplies in Norway. We can imagine different models for it – a fund, an investment company – but the main point is that there should be an instrument in addition to Government that can help ensure national ownership of hydropower resources. I see that the Right Spokesman Jan Tore Sanner says that this is ‘very unnecessary, and completely meaningless’. My question is whether the Prime Minister agrees with his government partner that giving the country greater access to securing national ownership of hydropower resources is ‘necessary and completely meaningless’.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e101	As you know, the state is a very large owner of Norwegian business. Estimates from the Main Financial Institution indicate that the government owner is up to 40 p.m. by Norwegian industry, and also by Oslo Børs. There is hardly any country in the world that has as much public ownership as Norway. The same applies to hydropower resources, which are very important for Norwegian value creation and which have provided the basis for the development of several major industries in Norway. Together, the power sector and the powerful industry are important for Norwegian employment. With regard to official controls and regulation of the power sector in Norway, this is very extensive. This applies both to the development and development of hydroelectric power plants, to the placing on the market of electricity, and not least to the distribution system. Competition authorities do an important job to ensure competition in the power market in order to bring prices down as far as possible, and we have the fall-back institute, which is now being investigated by a public body. As you know, the size has also received a large-scale notification of security of supply. So government is a dominant owner in Norwegian business in general and in the power sector in particular. The question, then, is this: Are new, large government funds necessary and deserving? This is under official control and it is up to public authorities to maintain such ownership in the power sector. Even I think it makes sense that this is determined by state, municipal and county authorities. I find it hard to see that a new fund is needed to secure it. It is a matter of political will to ensure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e112	I cannot see that the Prime Minister was close to answering my question, namely whether he agreed with the Right, which says that it is completely pointless and completely unnecessary to give the State greater access. He explained to the quite obvious naturalities, but did not answer the question. The starting point is that it is right for the public to have a strong ownership of hydropower resources today. But public ownership is threatened, partly by the fact that Statkraft is required to sell itself into many regional companies, large Norwegian power companies, and partly by the fact that municipalities and county municipalities want to continue selling themselves down. Now Statkraft can no longer buy because they have reached the limit in the Norwegian market. Then we need a new tool. We are open to different ways of organizing it, but we need a new public tool to ensure national ownership. That's what the Right says is meaningless and completely unnecessary. My question is whether the Prime Minister agrees that the bulk of the population involved is completely meaningless and completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e121	If I was close to answering, others get to judge. I replied that I did not think such a fund was necessary, so it was not far from an answer to the question. There was an answer to the question – if Stoltenberg had heard well after and been a little more in the benevolent corner than he obviously is today. I believe that the public has the means to ensure continued strong governance of the power sector. When Statkraft is required to sell down, Stoltenberg knows that it is for the sake of competition, and I would assume that the Workers' Party agrees. In fact, the Workers' Party itself has been concerned with involving other partners in State Power, the so-called strategic alliances, which in case would mean that the State is no longer the Helicopter of State Power. It has been confirmed by Olav Akssen that during the reign of Stoltenberg there were contacts with Fortum in Finland. Strong Norwegian national units are needed, but I have a fund that I find difficult to believe is really solving the question that Stoltenberg and the rest of us are concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e130	There will be four follow-up questions – first Olav Akselsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e133	What's strange in this case is not that the Right is against a system that can secure Norwegian water power on Norwegian hands. The Right Party and the Advance Party have never been concerned about this issue; on the contrary, they have waged an active struggle to privatise Statkraft and otherwise open the Norwegian hydropower sector for foreign purchases. What's strange and sad is that the Christian People's Party has changed sides. As late as three years ago, the Christian People's Party voted with the Labour Party and some other party here on the Stortingen to give State Power capital so that they could grow on in Norway and in the Nordic countries. During this period, the bomb has been reduced for all growth in State power, through the policy of the Government. Among other things, Statekraft is now required to sell the electricity production corresponding to consumption in 50,000 Norwegian homes. As the situation is today, there is no Norwegian who can use these power resources, and so it seems to me that the Prime Minister is okay, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e142	It is not correct even if the Axis continues with a signed representation. Firstly, the Axis itself has been open to the conclusion of strategic alliances. He has officially confirmed this, that in his time as the Council of State, such conversations were conducted with a Finnish company. I'm assuming that the Axis accepts that. Secondly, State power by the competition authorities is required to sell off at some point when they buy up elsewhere, in order for us to have real competition in the power market in Norway for the sake of consumers. A privatisation has not been established by the Government. In the ownership message – in line with what Akssen itself was open to – we have opened up strategic alliances, but no privatisation and stock exchange listing. So a so-called privatisation, for which Akselsen says that the Christian People's Party is now in favour, is not the case. The size has given Statkraft more capital, and we believe Statkraft now has the muscles they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e152	Inge Ryan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e155	Hydropower has been one of the main causes of Norway’s prosperity and Norway’s development, and it has been handled in this room by wise women and men through many sensible decisions. We now see that there is a resource that has an eternal perspective over it. The hydropower will probably be valuable even in the year 3000, in the year 4000, maybe even in the year 5000, while the oil we have in the North Sea has a perspective on some decades of it. That is why it is very important to always emphasise the political dimension when discussing hydropower, rather than the economic dimension. Does the Prime Minister agree that we need to make extra efforts to ensure continued public ownership of maximum hydropower in Norway, and preferably all hydropower? Does the Prime Minister also agree that Statkraft has a very important role to play in this, and that the organisation of Statkraft should not be confused, so that one comes into a situation where Statekraft can actually lose part of its hegemony and be sold to others and perhaps to abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e164	I agree with Ryan's representative that it is important that the public has a dominant position in terms of hydropower resources in Norway. This is a joint ownership, it's an heirloom, and we're going to have public governance over that. As I explained in my first reply to the representative, Mr Stoltenberg, we have different means of doing so. It is clear that if we are to see an increasing trend towards ever less public ownership and control of hydropower resources, there is reason to call for caution and seek means to stop it. Right now I don't see it. I also agree with Ryan's representative that Statkraft should play a key role in the exercise of public ownership of power resources. But one should not, in the interests of consumers, allow Statkraft to have such a dominant position that prices become unnecessarily high. Therefore, they are subject to the competition authorities. What we have put forward in the proposal for the Storting is an opening for strategic alliances, on which the Labour Party government was also involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e175	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e178	It's true that we have a large state ownership of Oslo Stock Exchange. It comes from the fact that when we part privatized Statoil and Telenor, they became gigantic in relation to the other ownership. 80-90 pst. by the shares in this listing and the partial privatisation went out of the country. Only 5 pst. of the ownership of Oslo Børs are private, Norwegian owners. The hydropower, which is now offered on the market gradually, usually has only foreign providers such as Vattenfall and Fortum. Would it not have been an advantage for Norway if we changed the statutes of the Petroleum Fund, so that we could not only invest passively in Texas Company, Chase Manhattan, etc., but could compete for valuable pieces of Norwegian hydropower, so that Norwegian ownership also had an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e185	If you're going to start changing the guidelines for the management of the Petroleum Fund, it's a tough debate. There has been a broad consensus in Stortinget that it should be managed in the best interests of our descendants, i.e. with the greatest possible return. It forms the basis for the management guidelines for the Petroleum Fund. This is a matter of generation solidarity, and I see no reason for a change in the guidelines for the Petroleum Fund. When Hedstrom mentions such companies as he did, it may seem something exotic, but this is actually a matter of giving the Norwegian State the highest possible income from the Petroleum Fund, also for our descendants. It is therefore not a question of passive ownership but of obtaining the highest possible return. I agree that the public should have control over the power sector. I believe that one has other instruments than starting to change the guidelines for the Petroleum Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e194	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e197	What happened in the Stoltenberg government and in the time of Olav Akselsen as Minister of Oil and Energy, I find it difficult to express myself, but I can say with great certainty that in the Bondevik I government, all attempts were made to reduce the importance of State power, convert State power, sell out Norwegian hydropower resources, reduce public ownership or attack the right of return rather clearly. That's why there's a new line we see here from the Christian People's Party, which is a little bit surprising. The problem is that, in practice, public ownership has been a means of securing national ownership, because there is no private capital in Norway that can raise the high values in the power industry. This means that public ownership is a buffer against an aggressive international market, not least through major actors such as Vattenfall and Fortum. Therefore, it is also completely wrong to see this in such a narrow competitive framework as this government has chosen to add. So the question remains: wouldn't it have been wise, especially by the Christian People's Party, to be open to a fund solution that could secure these values in Norwegian hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e206	The Christian People's Party has not switched on any new line. We want to keep a strong State force. We have proposed a model for the Storting that takes care of it, whose only change is that it opens up strategic alliances, which were otherwise already clarified in the ownership message, for which we promoted – I believe – a few years ago, and for which there was also a majority. This will ensure a strong State power, but the company will not have such a dominant position that it weakens competition, which in the event would be detrimental to consumers in Norway. We don't have a competitive approach to this issue. On the contrary, we have an approach to ensure official control over and a high level of ownership of our hydropower resources. We believe the Government has added that. We are also going to do that in the future, and I can't see anything about the proposal that we have made to the Stortinget, which deviates from that guideline.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e213	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e216	I have a question to the Prime Minister about the impact on the state and the inhabitants of the country of the very high petroleum prices that we are now experiencing. If prices persist this year, the impact for the government may be – I have not yet received the figures from the Ministry of Finance – approx. NOK 40 billion in unexpected revenue from the taxation of oil companies and the sale of own crude oil. However, the impact on the inhabitants of the country may be 1 kr higher petrol price compared to the government’s own government budget up to last autumn. My questions to the Prime Minister are: Does he think, given that he was talking about the generational situation instead, that it is reasonable for the present generation to have a very high added cost in terms of higher petrol taxes, while our descendants get even more into the oil fund? Wouldn't it be natural that – let's say – at least 3 out of 40 billion were used to reduce the fuel tax, so that we got a stable petrol price, and so that those who live today don't just get the disadvantages, but can keep the current petrol price?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e226	Then one in the case must start to regulate the petrol charge, and that is what Hagen adds. I will not here and now notify any change of it. It swings with oil price and other conditions. One might think that the petrol price is sometimes a bit high, but in relation to people's income, the petrol price today is actually lower than it was a few years ago. We spend less of our household budget on petrol today than we did a few years ago. Now Hagen is mixing the size of the Petroleum Fund and the State budget. As you know, there is a broad consensus – perhaps apart from the Progress Party – that what we are including in the budget is the yield of the Petroleum Fund. We do not attack the very wealth, because it must be for future generations, and there may also be times when the oil price drops and becomes extremely low. Starting to withdraw from the fund after the fluctuations in the oil price will be a very unpredictable policy. That's the return we're going to include in the budget, i.e. 4 pst. For the sake of the economic situation, we are currently taking out something more than that. But the government has made a proposal, and got a majority of the majority in Stortinget for it, so we're going back to a rental where we take out the real return on 4 pst. in 2009. Starting to take something more out of the oil fund because of a fluctuation in oil and petrol prices would, in my opinion, be contrary to these guidelines. In that case, it has to be compensated in another way. If the Advance Party wants to lower the fuel tax, I assume they will come up with discovery proposals so that we can stay within the same responsible budget framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e233	Yes, I can confirm that, in the context of the revised national budget, the Progress Party will make proposals to reduce the petrol tax, so that the population will not inadvertently receive an additional cost compared to what was initially foreseen in the Government's budget. Then it's completely wrong, what the prime minister says about attacking the fund. Everyone in this country now reads in the newspaper that the fund is increasing every year, increasing more than planned. That was the increase of approx. Forty billion kroner that I thought might be the most gracious thing you could use a tenth of, maybe three to four billion kroner, a tenth of the increase, to keep the fuel price that was meant to be. What wrong has the Norwegian people, or the present generation, done when they only get the disadvantages of large revenues to the Norwegian state, instead of at least getting the small advantage of having a stable petrol price, which we have the full opportunity to get when we get these unexpected revenues? The fund, it's increasing and increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e242	Firstly, Hagen is very exclusive in what price questions he is concerned about. Price increases in Norway are, as is well known today, very low, not to say record low. This benefits consumers. One might say that the low price increase is lower than expected. I have never heard Hagen say that because there has now been a lower price increase than expected, we will try to turn it up! In this way, we cannot pursue policies, except that the impact of the Progress Party's policy would probably have been a higher price increase. The Government has managed to prevent this by pursuing a responsible budgetary policy. In fact, today we are taking out more than the real yield of the Petroleum Fund – much more because we have had a low economic situation. I will insist that I do not recommend taking out even more of the Petroleum Fund. It's not like people just get the disadvantage of a high oil price. On the contrary, by increasing the oil fund, we can take out more because our returns are increasing. It benefits public budgets and the Norwegian people in several areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e249	Per Erik Monsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e252	Norway has huge oil revenues, and they are strongly increasing. Analysts are now saying that we can count on a stable, high oil price. We also have one of the highest petrol taxes in Europe, while Norway has a very special geography compared to most other European countries. We have a lot of distances, and these high gas charges and petrol prices especially affect people who depend on cars and who live in the districts. My question is, how high does the petrol price have to be before the Prime Minister is willing to consider reducing the tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e259	I'm not going to put the number of ears or heads on it. We have seen that gas prices have fluctuated before. I understand that the Progress Party believes it should be firm. Then I assume that the Advance Party at times when the petrol price is falling, will propose to increase the petrol price in order to get the petrol price up, so that it will be as expected. We do not operate that policy, either in the case of petrol or in the case of other goods and services where prices fluctuate slightly. The truth is that because of the government's firm economic policy, we currently have a very low price increase in general. Real income growth is stronger for most people than it has been for a long time. That, of course, is what is crucial. In terms of what we spend on petrol, we actually use clearly less today's total income than we did a few years back. But the important thing is, people today have better finances and better purchasing power than they've had in a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e268	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e271	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. If I had had the NOK 3-4 billion that Carl I wanted to buy petrol for, I would have used them to fight and eliminate poverty among children in Norway. Save Barna and Fafo presented a weekly report documenting poverty among children in Norway, where 26 000 children are extremely poor and cannot afford to afford the other child. If we use a less strict definition, we're talking about 60,000–70,000 children. These are children of lone parents, children of large siblings, children with parents who are illiterate or unemployed, often children of ethnic minorities. These are children who often cover the poverty of their parents, who don't dare want what other kids want, and who may not look forward to the summer vacation, because they can't afford to travel on a summer vacation. Bondevik said at the national meeting of the Christian People’s Party a year ago, on 10 May 2003: ‘Yes, we have a poverty problem – also in Norway.’... ‘I decided that if I were to lead a government again, I would address this problem.’ Is the Prime Minister satisfied with how far they have come?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e282	No, I'm not happy, but we've started the job. The figures that Kristin Halvorsen referred to correctly come from 2001, i.e. from the time before the Cooperation Government joined. Obviously, a lot of people have gone by in the public debate, because they think this is a product of the Co-operation Government. This was from the time before the Co-operation Administration joined. And it was precisely because I knew that we had such problems, that I said – and I'm standing by – what Kristin Halvorsen referred to, that if I were to lead a new government, I would take care of this problem. In the central government we provided a good basis because we promoted a big message that showed some of these problems. Now we're getting into the next phase. We've taken hold of them. We presented an action plan to combat poverty, and we have followed up in three budgets. In the course of these three years, we have spent less than DKK 2 billion on targeted measures to combat this problem. And it goes to just such groups that Kristin Halvorsen now referred to. We know that among the poorest, we find long-term social welfare recipients, long-term unemployed, a good deal from the immigrant community and some single-parent families. It is precisely against such groups that we have taken action. With regard to welfare systems in Norway today, we use about 250 billion on welfare schemes. No one can say that that's the amount in itself that makes us still have a poverty problem. The reason why we have a poverty problem is that some of them fall between these welfare systems. That is why we need to take targeted action against them. In the central government's message, we analyzed which groups they belonged to. In the co-operation administration, we have now followed up just to get rid of the number of people who are writing before the co-operation government joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e300	In SV we do our homework, and that means we're well-known that these numbers are from 2001. That is why we have also checked the Bondevik distribution accounts for 2002, 2003 and 2004. It shows that there has been extensive redistribution among the poorest. While those who have the least have got little, the richest have got more. Five times as much has gone to those who have good advice in Norway during these three years — during the reign of Bondevik — compared to those who have little. So the hour of accounting will show that the differences have increased in these years as well. Now the government has presented a tax communication that is very concrete in relation to the promises given to people who have good advice, which is very specific in terms of how to reduce the wealth tax and which is very specific in terms of how to bring down the top tax. That means that people like Bondevik and I have been promised by this government of tax credits in the $12 billion class for the next majority period. But I haven't seen any promise from this government to the poor children. Can I ask what Bondevik has planned to promise the poorest for the next big time?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e307	In each of the three budgets presented by the Cooperation Government, we have put forward proposals for increased efforts towards the poor in Norway. This is true of the groups I have mentioned — homeless, single-parents, poor people who are poor because of drug problems, poor people in the immigrant community, etc. I insist that we help the poor, we must help the poor. It doesn't help to raise taxes at the top if we don't spend the money to help the poor. And then they're going to be equally poor. That's where we have to start, and that's what the Co-operation Administration has done. It is the first government ever to present an action plan to combat poverty in Norway. That's what I think Kristin Halvorsen could be out enough to say was good. Then we have the tax debate. After all, what has been provided by tax relief has mainly gone to companies to secure jobs that could otherwise be lost. The tax reform aims to eliminate the worst injustice in today's tax system, namely that those who have high capital income pay much less taxes than those who have similar employee incomes. It's also been taken into consideration by the Co-operation Government, the difference we're going to cancel out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e315	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e318	There are many reasons for poverty, but the main reason is that people do not have a job and cannot live on their own income. During the period Bondevik has been Prime Minister, unemployment has increased from about 60 000 to nearly 100 000 — and the government says it is satisfied with economic developments. In addition to an increase in the number of unemployed, unemployment benefits have been reduced. There have been cuts in a wide range of areas – in the day-to-day allowance, in the unemployment allowance for the unemployed. It is a contribution to more poverty, increased inequalities and greater differences. Other important social benefits have also been cut, and this has been justified by the fact that there is not enough money in the common fund to finance these schemes. Then it's actually a point that this government doesn't have the money to continue a good unemployment paycheck, but has many billions to give tax relief to the richest. That is precisely the point, that the government has many billions for the richest people in Norway, but then they have little, indeed so little that they cut some benefits, to those who have the most difficulty, namely the unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e325	The Labour Party has also had many billions in tax havens. They've been in on 13-14 of them. There are quite a few, but that was right to prevent more people from becoming unemployed. It is the intention of the Government’s tax policy – to secure jobs – precisely because, as Stoltenberg says, some of the poverty is due to a lack of work. But not all poverty is due to it. There are people who have jobs, who are poor, and those groups will also the Cooperation Government now. That's why we can't just focus on employment, even though it's an important part of it. It is completely wrong that the Government is satisfied with the employment situation. We have approx. 90,000 people out of work today. It's too much. Fortunately, it is much lower than when Stoltenberg was Minister of Industry – but there is too much, and we want that figure down. We had 26,000 poor children in 2001 – that's when Stoltenberg left as Prime Minister. It's too high a number. The co-operation administration has taken it on board to combat poverty. We've put forward a plan for it, which the Labour Party government never did.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e332	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e335	Poverty among children in Norway must be our greatest shame. We are the richest country in the world, and the best country to live in. While Bondevik and I have received large salary increases and tax credits of thousands of dollars in recent years, those who are so poor that they have to go to the social office have had indicative rates that have remained silent throughout the Bondevik period. I would like to challenge Mr Bondevik quite specifically on what may be targeted at the poorest: Had there not been reason to increase the rates for those who have to go on social assistance, at least in line with the usual wage increases that other people get? Wouldn't there be reason to leave those who are so poor that they have to get social assistance, to keep child welfare, as both Bondevik and I have had for our children sail if we have had good wages? It's a little focused on the poorest. But to test the poorest in terms of child welfare, this government still allows.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e342	I agree with Karin Andersen that it is a great shame – and call it the greatest – that we still have so many poor, and poor children, in Norway. That's why I got hold of it and decided that I would do something about it. We have presented the first action plan presented by some Norwegian governments to reduce this problem, and we have increased the appropriations for targeted actions more than any other government has done for these groups. It is not quite right when Karin Andersen says that the rates of economic social assistance have remained still in my prime minister's time. In 2002, we increased child rates in the guidance guidelines on economic social assistance. We also increased the child supplement for disability pensioners, which is some of those who are poor and have poor children. In addition, we have improved the housing support system, the transitional benefit for lone dependants and care services, where we find many of the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e349	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e352	The Prime Minister earlier replied to questions from Carl I. Hagen that real wages growth is real – all have received higher income, people have improved their finances, and purchasing power has been strengthened. This, of course, does not apply to those we are talking about here now, the poor. The Prime Minister is quite right that this government has invested a few hundred million in combating poverty. But on the other hand, this government, as well as the former Bondevik government of 1997, has ensured, among other things, that electricity taxes have increased, petrol taxes have increased and municipal taxes have increased – expenditures that the poor also have. The Prime Minister has considered measures in general, targeted at those who own houses, drive cars, etc., but who are categorised as poor, so that they get less expenditure through, among other things. reduced taxes and duties?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e359	One when not the poorest in Norway by general measures and tax reductions that apply to all, and that relate to those who have good advice, such as Sandberg and me. It does not help the poor in Norway anything particularly about reducing taxes that we benefit from. So I want to insist that we help the poor in Norway, we need to help the poor in Norway. Then we need to put targeted action on those who we know are behind in welfare development. Those groups are defined, we know who they are, and it is against them that the Government has put in place its measures to combat poverty. That the Progress Party at the top of it will have tax reliefs in addition to what the Government has proposed, we know very well, but that will only reduce our opportunities to help the poor. We then spend the money on general tax relief, for which the Advance Party is in favour, rather than on targeted measures to help the poor. That's a priority that I don't want to be in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e364	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e367	If the Prime Minister is to step up his efforts to combat poverty, he must make sure that he is able to do so. What's so alarming is that the government has submitted a tax return of $8 billion in tax bills to those who pay top taxes, i.e. those who charge over $350,000, and $2.50 billion to the largest group – you have to spend well over $200,000 to get a share in the minimum deduction. The big difference between Bondevik I and Bondevik II is that Bondevik I pointed to five strategies to reduce poverty: work, housing, a more fine masked security network, better public services and a fairer tax system. This government goes the opposite way: reduces the effort when it comes to housing, creates a more rough security network, reduces the local authorities' ability to follow up whether we talk about schools or special settings to help those who have problems, and has a deeply unfair tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e373	I greatly appreciated the cooperation in the central government, not least with Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, where we laid the foundation for combating poverty. We did that together. But the Co-operation Government has actually followed it up and presented an action plan that no other government has promoted in Norway, so now we have got the tool and the opportunity to fight poverty. It is not true that we have been in favour of a more grossly masked social safety net, on the contrary, poverty is an expression that we target and make the net more fine-masked, to meet those who are poor, rather than general schemes, who benefit us prosperity. As far as the local economy is concerned, it is also an important matter. The arrangement for the municipal economy for the current year presented by the Cooperation Government is the best that has been provided for many years, much better than what we could afford at the time, when the Central Party was in government. As far as the tax debate is concerned, I maintain that the most important thing is to eliminate the greatest injustice in the tax system. That's what the Co-operation Administration is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e382	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e385	I have a question for the Prime Minister. I want to address a matter that I think is very serious, a matter which has so far not received the great attention of national politics, but which, if it results in correctness, can be the most serious environmental and economic crime that has taken place outside the coastal areas of Norway, including luthole fishing. Figures from the Marine Research Institute show that in 2002 and 2003 there may have been a Russian overfishing of cod in the Barents Sea of between 160 000 and 200000 tonnes. It represents over a quarter of the total quota we have on cod in the Barents Sea. It is clear that such illegal action, such illegal fishing, can have major consequences, either by depleting the cod in the Barents Sea as a resource, or by drastically reducing quotas. Now it is less than an hour for the Prime Minister to meet the Russian Foreign Minister, and this is a matter that calls for attention, not only between the fisheries ministers, but definitely at the highest level. And the question is, will the Prime Minister address this matter, and what demands will he make from the Norwegian side?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e394	It is true that there are such claims about Russian overfishing. We have to check the durability of this, and it's clear that if it's right, it's serious. I'm going to make sure that it's properly addressed in relation to the Russian authorities. We have to get to the bottom of the matter before I can express myself more categorically, but the representative should be sure that it can be expected or documented that an overfishing has taken place, it is clearly a serious matter, which requires a response from the Norwegian side. If so, it will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e399	This is the first time that the Institute of Marine Research has produced that kind of concrete figure. This is also the first time, as far as I am aware, that the Directorate for Fisheries has actually verified the figures so far. This means that these are numbers that are not just taken out of the loose air, but that are probably for the first time from the Norwegian side verified by the research team and the directorate team. It's a serious matter. The total quota in 2002 and 2003 was 395 000 tonnes — it was high enough for itself, so now we have had an overfishing of nearly 200,000 tonnes, if the figures are correct. I can't understand how we're going to be able to maintain cod fishing in the Barents Sea in the years to come if this leads to correctness. I wish the Prime Minister could have been a little clearer that this will not only be brought up once in the near future, but that it will actually be taken up in the talks the Prime Minister will have with the Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e404	We will take this up on the first occasion where we believe that we have a basis for it, and I will not rule out that this can happen today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e409	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e412	My follow-up question also goes to the Prime Minister. It is particularly positive that the Prime Minister announces that this issue may be raised today during the visit of the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs. The marine research institute has reported overfishing, as it was said, for ICES of 160000 to 200000 tonnes. I don't think we have any reason to doubt the durability of the figures provided by the Marine Research Institute. In that case, there will be a great deal of defeat for the work done by the Marine Research Institute. So far, I think we should trust that the Marine Research Institute has done its job, that they have done the right reporting, and that this is a real overfishing. This means that this case needs to be brought up to the highest level, and that cooperation between the Norwegian and Russian authorities is started in order to find out how accurate the figures that are reported are, and how to deal with this type of overfishing. I just want to ask the Prime Minister to confirm that this will really be taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e419	As I have already said, I also take seriously what has been achieved. We're going to make sure that's taken up and followed up. We have to be absolutely safe on the basis of that, but I agree with Mr Enoxen that when we know which bodies have put this forward, there is basically no reason to doubt the information.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e424	Åsa Elvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e427	This is such a serious matter that if the Prime Minister wanted to express Norwegian concern about this and to inform us about the work that has been done to get a very clear number on the table, I thought it would be very nice. There is no reason to believe that the majority of fishermen, both Norwegian and Russian, are not law-abiding, but we know that violations of the control regime are happening. Therefore, resource control and monitoring in the north must be a major task. SV has long wanted a strengthening of the Coast Guard, including because we know that unadulterated controls from the Coast Guard are one of the most effective measures against illegal fishing, both Norwegian and foreign. Coast Guards also have very important and extensive cooperation with Russian colleagues. I appreciate the Prime Minister saying that he will consider addressing this with his Russian colleague, but I would like to ask: is the Prime Minister agreed that strengthening Coast Guard and Coast Guard cooperation with Russian colleagues will also be an important signal in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e437	I agree. We already have cooperation with the Russian authorities on resource monitoring and control, and the Coast Guard is very central to it. I also fully agree that good cooperation with the Russian authorities is necessary. I'd like to go into it and make sure it's good, or see if it's a potential to improve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e442	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e445	I have a question for the Prime Minister. There is a great deal in the Storting that the Defense should sell property, but this must only be done in a way that takes care of outdoor life, cultural memory and general interest. That was the background for the Workers' Party's strong commitment to securing these interests in relation to Oscarsborg. Now it has become known that the Eastern Farmers in Westfold are to be sold to private buyers, even though the Westfold county municipality had an almost equal settlement. Farming is particularly important as it is located in an area of the country that is very densely populated, and where there is a lack of public bathing space. The Sal indicates that it is not the interests of the general public that have been taken care of, but the desire for the greatest possible gain. My question is whether the Prime Minister will look at these matters again, or whether this is a signal that it will also be the economy in the future that decides who will be the buyers of our coastal pearls.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e452	The normal follow-up to the highest bids is something to which the Workers' Party has joined. The instructions for the disposal of property from the Defence are accepted by a majority of the Storting, and it says that in the event of a breach of the highest bid, the Storting must be submitted to the Authority. Otherwise, I agree that it is important to ensure public access to these areas. The Bolarna, excluding the West Bolarna, which is still a military area, is an area of 2,600 dekar and approx. 40 smaller and larger islands. The public interest in the area is safeguarded. Formal bindings were introduced in the form of materialised clauses on approx. 2,400 of the 2,600 covers, which will be available to the public 24 hours a day 365 days a year – that is to say, 2,400 of 2,600 covers are secured to the general public through object lighting. The other 200 Decars are a concentrated area with a building mass, which is also to be organised for a wide range of activities open to everyone. The marine area, i.e. the port area, is also required to be organised for most people and to include an offer for the general public. These strict clauses, which ensure that the public is guaranteed access to it all, most of the Bolärne area, were the reason for a choice to take the highest bid, which was, as far as I remember, of 26.5 million. kr. If anything else is to happen, according to the disposal instructions, we have to present it to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e459	It is such that in the case of Oscarsborg, which is another important area that is being exploited by the public, the Labour Party, together with the Government Party, managed to find a solution that takes care of its general interests. If there was a desire to find a similar arrangement here, the government could have taken the initiative. Instead, a choice has been made to sell it to a private operator, even though the county municipality in the area concerned had a similar size. It sounds very nice when it is said that general interests should be cared for in different ways. But I find it very difficult to believe that a private operator buys an area if you don't have plans for your own use. If it were the case that the group that has now purchased this would not receive special dishes, they might as well have benefited from this area if the county took over. My question is whether it is this template that should also be applied at the future hall, or whether one will benefit from the existing situation, to preserve other interests as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e464	Yes, other interests must be safeguarded, such as outdoor purposes, public access, and thus the public is guaranteed access to 2,400 out of 2,600 decks. I stress that, so the representative Aksens must be aware that the public is guaranteed access to it all, most of this area. In reality, only the building mass is kept out in case, but it shall also be open for other purposes. So the public interest is crucial for the Government. I also refer to an overview in the evening post today that says something about the open-air areas in Oslo and in the eastern part of the country that are now up to date and that, according to our policy, these are going to be secured to the public and to open-air purposes. These are difficult areas, these are a lot of examples. I don't have time to refer them, but just refer to the Evening Post today. What I'm saying is that the government's policy is to ensure public access to open-air areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e473	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e476	Of course, you normally have to follow the rules on giving it to the highest bids. But here the bid was 2.5 million. kr lower than the highest and for 2,5 mill. society could ensure full access for the public to the East Poles. It said no, because you were only concerned with income and not taking into account the public or cultural heritage. It was full opportunity to do it – it wasn't done, and it's very bad. It is not true that the public interest is not affected by the sale that is now taking place. First of all, the number usage is a little bit special. On the East Bank, it's 60 pst. which is an open-air area. The rest will be disposed of privately. Second, we know that the 60 pst. reduces the value of the open-air interests because access is effectively reduced when the buildings are owned and used by others. It is also the assessment of all the nature protection organisations and Bellona, and my question is: Are the nature protection organisations and Bellona completely wrong when they believe that important outdoor interests are being weakened by the sale of the Bolarna?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e483	It is wrong that the Government is concerned only with the economy and not with the public interest. If that were true, as Stoltenberg claims, we would not have put such clauses on this sale. There are materialized clauses that allow the public to access it all, most of the area, and it shows that there are public interests the government has had as its primary objective. The working party itself has been involved in the adoption of the applicable guidelines. Should a deviation from the highest bid, we must go to Stortinget, and want Stortinget to assess this matter, we do of course. I have explained the guidelines for the Government's policy. It is to ensure public access for outdoor purposes. That's our dominant consideration. They are reflected in the establishment in the Evening Post today, the large areas that we want to ensure for the general public in the Eastern region, which are so densely populated and which have a special need for such access.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e493	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e496	The author Oscar Wilde is famous for, among other things, to have said that a cynic is a human being who knows the price of everything, but not the value of anything. It's very good in this particular case, because here we're talking about 2.5 million. The difference between knowing the price and not the value. It is clear that the possibility of public access to the Eastern Islands is limited by the establishment of a congregation there. Even if you light things up the right to bathe and everything, it will of course be much more difficult to add the quay when you know that right behind here is the main house of the congregation. It is clear that one feels like an intruder in a completely different way than if one knows that this is the public, state or county municipality in Westfold, which owns. Then you feel that the availability is much more organized. Everyone who travels in Norwegian nature knows that this is actually the case. In the revised national budget, we intend to put in a proposal that the Storting asks the Government to expropriate this reason. The Eastern Islands must remain in the public interest. Now I understand your Prime Minister that he's not a stranger because this can actually happen. Will he then ask his government colleagues to reconsider this in the treatment of the revised national budget, because new elements have been introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e506	In the case of the port area and berth, full access to it will be ensured to the public. I don't think that's going to work as Djupedal's representative says. When there's a materialistic clause that this is for the public, it will be. This is mainly about the building mass. It must necessarily be of some activity, and there it could also be open to activities other than those provided by the buyers. If this matter is raised in the context of the revised national budget on the basis of proposals from parties or otherwise, it is clear that we are going into an assessment of it. But I want to insist that the main line of the Government is to ensure public access to important outdoor purposes. It believes the Ministry of Defence and Change Property are satisfied in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e513	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e516	The Progress Party follows the Prime Minister and the Government in this respect that the maximum price should apply, unless there are any other specific circumstances. The government has also received a mandate and agreement from Stortinget to assess that type of case. But I have a question for the Prime Minister: there are many large areas around the country that private people now have opportunities to buy. It's also happened in many contexts. But then it turns out that statesmen are largely changing the assumptions for owning some areas. The county then uses the accommodation and concession obligations and the kind of things that have not been founded when the defence has owned these properties, but that have automatically become claims when the private take over. Of course, it creates problems for the private people who have bought – and paid – large areas from the Defense, and it may change the assumptions for the plans they had when they made bids and were awarded a large number of properties. Does the Prime Minister think that is reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e523	Of course, I do not know some of the matters that the representative Sandberg is now thinking about, but I would assume that when clauses are made in connection with the private purchase of property from the Defence Agency, the county is concerned with exactly what the other questions have been addressed, namely, concerns relating to public access to such areas. That's what I think is important, and I think that one should have access to materialized clauses for. It is so important to ensure that many of these areas are accessible to the general public that, when the defence leaves them and the private purchaser, if any, they should find themselves in, and be in agreement with, restrictions on their disposal of the area in which the public has wide access to them. The concrete examples that Sandberg might have in the back of his mind as a background for the question, I can't go into, because I don't know them, but I can say this in general. And again: This is also evident from the many examples presented in the Evening Post today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e530	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e533	If a person really wants to find ways to secure this pearl for the public, there are several things that can be assessed, including avoiding the rules of sale in the Defense and expropriation. A third option could be to apply the disposal instructions in the State for the sale of government properties, such as: has a provision that properties of special value for outdoor purposes may be transferred free of charge to the Ministry of Environment. Now it is asked whether this is relevant to use free of charge, but around Oslofjord there is such a shortage of outdoor areas for the public that they are of particular value for outdoor purposes. The question is whether the Government will go through the possibility of using this disposal file and the provision there not only for the Landers but also for other areas of Oslofjorden that have been offered for sale.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e538	It is clear that if the public were to be kept away from important open air areas, the provision referred to by Marit Arnstad could apply. So in the case of Bolärna, one believes that the public is guaranteed access to the vast majority of the important open-air areas. In the case of other important open-air areas in the Oslofjord, such as Kjøkøy, Torgauten, Dypeklo, Ramsholmen, Søndre Årøy, Tjønneberget, Flautangen, Staupesjæren, Rauberholmene, the fortifications of the Fredriksvern in Larvik, Sundås in Stokke municipality and the Tangen fast in Bamble, these will be secured for the public in various ways. These are large and valuable open-air areas in the Oslofjorden where the public will now be able to gain more access than before. It's positive. The clause to which Marit Arnstad referred is a safety valve in cases where it cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e545	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e559	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e566	The representatives of the Central Party, Lund and Sollied Upperås, have proposed that: establish the settlement fee for self-financing mortgage bonds for a maximum period of 21 days for the reduction of borrowing interest on a decision taken by the Bank of Norway and introduce the maximum establishment fee for new loans corresponding to the bank's self-cost; There is no doubt that it is important to facilitate competition between banks in order to ensure fair banking services for consumers. Fee for the settlement of mortgage bonds, which is in line with the last increase in the legal fee, has been increased with effect from 1 July 2003 by DKK 40 to DKK 740. The Labour Party, Right, SV, Christian People's Party and Left supported this increase. There has been a political acceptance that the legal fee has been and has been used to finance the necessary actions both within and outside the justice sector. From the 2007 budget year, it is planned that the State Mapping Agency will take full responsibility for the DSI and any reduction before it will be difficult to implement. The Ministry of Justice explains why it has not been possible to segregate the costs of the settlement of bonded bonds from all the other disclosure transactions carried out by the disclosure authorities. It'll be a lot of fun around here. 1 million documents per year, but only half of the clearing houses charge a fee. The listing of mortgage bonds is just one of many information tasks in the courts. It has therefore been difficult to establish an exact self-costing value for the cost of the cost-sharing fee alone. For these reasons, the majority of the Committee cannot support the proposal to reduce the cost of self-litting. On the other hand, the two other proposals to introduce a maximum period of 21 days for the reduction of borrowing interest following a decision by the Bank of Norway and to introduce a maximum establishment fee for new loans equivalent to the bank's own costs may be counterproductive, namely by weakening competition between banks and not strengthening it, as the proposers wish. The lack of competition may lead to lower interest rates on deposits and higher interest rates on loans, which in turn increases household financing costs. The banks do not currently have an obligation to reduce the borrowing rate as changes in Norway’s Bank’s interest rate are made. The Consumer Council does not support the proposal to introduce a maximum period for changing the borrowing rate. The Consumer Council, on the other hand, shows that the proposal can work against its intention by adapting banks to a maximum legal limit, and thus does not make the response time to interest rate reductions a competitive element between banks. Before 1980, banks in Norway had an obligation to follow the changes in the signal rate of Norway’s Bank. Reintroducing this would be very drastic and would introduce a regulated interest rate rather than a market-based interest rate. This policy intervention will not be in line with the free competition the proposers call for. For these reasons, a unanimous committee does not support the proposal to impose a maximum period of 21 days in order to reduce the borrowing rate following a decision by the Bank of Norway. The establishment fee varies from bank to bank and already acts as a competitive element. Some banks operate at NOK zero, while others take $1,600, according to Your Money. Banks intending to connect to new customers should therefore keep the establishment fee as low as possible. Therefore, requiring banks to remove the establishment fee does not promote competition between banks for the benefit of consumers. The proposal cannot therefore be supported. It is important to mention that the Main Organisation of Finance and the Savings Bank Association point out that developments in society show that the market provides for competition, contrary to what regulation will do. Regularly, through the media and other channels, extensive information is provided to customers about the different conditions of the banks, such as: bank and interest rate barometers. This type of information is an important prerequisite for a well-functioning free competition market. On my own account, I would like to say that the politically interesting thing in the proposal of the Central Party is that the proposal takes account of interest rebates. How would the Central Party have dealt with such a rule if it had been about an interest rate increase by the Bank of Norway? The main contribution the Stortinget can make to loan customers is to pursue a sober and tight fiscal policy that can help to keep interest rate and exchange rate levels still low. 1 pst. an increase in the interest rate of a Norwegian household with a total loan of 1 million. kr represents only NOK 10000 or in excess of DKK 7000 after tax. This exceeds four and a half times the maximum establishment fee charged by the banks, cf. the study to which the Centre Party itself refers, published in Your Money. The last two points of the proposal, trying to control interest rates and setting a maximum time limit for setting interest rates, are therefore bad suggestions, and they are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e607	At the outset, I would like to pay tribute to the proposers, who address a very important issue and also help to make the political points more clear. As a matter of fact, the proposers should have a reputation for bringing up things that are topical and that people out there are sometimes concerned about. With regard to the proposal as such, the proposers wish to facilitate competition between banks and thus to take care of customers. I agree with the rapporteur that part of what the centre party is presenting here will lead to more restrictions than competition. We believe that in this context it is competition that makes loan customers benefit from the changes that have to be made. With regard to the questioning fee, which for us is the most important thing in this proposal, it is what the case-rapporteur was right about, which is politically governed, and which is mainly used to finance good purposes that you want to support. Thus, there will be clear political lines in relation to what you think it is right to do in this case. That is why the Progress Party and SV have a joint proposal that is based on the need for a model where you set the cost of lighting things to self-cost. Today, there is a purely fiscal income to the state. For some of us, this is worrying, because we believe that to the extent that the state has such needs, it should be done in a different way than by pushing it over, for example. the legal fee, on the basis of which the litigation fee is also payable. In this respect, as regards the statements made by the rapporteur, I will try to be critical of parts of what he has submitted, including: the fact that it has not been possible for the department to calculate the cost of self-expense on the cost of handling. The undersigned is of the opinion that at best there is a rewriting of the facts in the letter from the department. For the ministry, there are difficulties in calculating costs. At least I didn't see it as impossible on the part of the department. As it is also the case that trust between the Stortinget and the Government/State Councils is about feedback from the respective departments, it is essential that the Ministry should be able to do such a job. If the Stortinget were to ask for this, would the department say that no, we can't do that? Clearly, it will be unacceptable. The undersigned has a greater sense of the Minister of Justice's comment in his letter to the Committee, where he honestly and honestly says that this is what is used to finance things out of a political ambition. I think that is more fair than claiming that it is impossible to obtain this information. So it's tempting to think about what it would be like if there had been another government that was sitting today. Would that be so, for example. Is the right equally steadfast in supporting what is now the proposal, or would another position be taken? Now the Right obviously shouldn't answer that, because they're in government and have to deal with the consequences in that way. One might draw it even further: what if the Progress Party was in government, we would also have seen the light, in line with the many others who have taken the consequences of being in government and taking responsibility? I'll be careful to conclude here and now, but for our part it's about having a policy that feels more direct. In this way, as I said, we want a system of self-expense on the cost of things. With this I address the minority proposal from the Progress Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e622	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e625	Competition in banking is important from a consumer perspective. If financial institutions are given too much market power, it is likely to result in increased fees, higher interest rates and generally lower offers to customers. Such a development does not want any. The establishment fee for banks varies. Such a variation shows that several banks use the amount of the establishment fee to attract new customers. This is positive for consumers. We also know that it takes varying periods from Norway's Bank to reduce its interest rate and until the reduction becomes effective for current loans. This, too, represents a competitive advantage for those banks which rapidly follow up on a reduction in the level of interest rates for current and new loans. I would say that these facts show that there is a long way to go real competition for the customers in the financial industry. The proposers will introduce a maximum period of 21 days for the reduction of the borrowing rate following a reduction in the interest rate decision of the Bank of Norway. Such a proposal would be counterproductive. There is reason to believe that banks will adapt to such a maximum level and not offer interest reduction until 21 days have elapsed since the decision to reduce interest rates has been taken at the Bank of Norway. As a result, the response time to interest rate reductions could no longer become a competitive element between banks. Such a result is not in the interests of consumers. I would also like to point out that the proposal, if implemented, involves price regulation and thus an intervention in the risk management of banks and their ability to adapt interest margins. In order to ensure the soundness of banks, it is important that loans are properly priced in relation to the high risk they represent for banks. The representatives Lund and Sollied Överaas also propose to introduce a maximum establishment fee for new loans corresponding to the bank's self-cost. This too is a proposal contrary to consumer interests. Furthermore, the proposal is doubtful in relation to Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement. The establishment fee varies from bank to bank and acts as a competitive element. It is fully possible to establish a new loan relationship with no establishment costs if the consumer is aware of the choice of bank. The Christian People’s Party considers that the proposal to impose a maximum establishment fee will not promote competition between banks for the benefit of consumers and therefore does not support the proposal. We also do not support the proposal to set the cost-of-charge charge. But we have considerable sympathy for this proposal. It must be recognised that the existence of the clearing charge actually constitutes a anti-competitive element in the financial industry. The thawing fee has essentially a fiscal justification. However, it is politically accepted that the court fee, including the hearing fee, includes: used to finance the necessary actions both inside and outside the justice sector. Furthermore, it is very difficult to distinguish between the costs of clearing mortgage bonds in order to obtain self-cost, which proposers would like to be the basis for the amount of the fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e651	I'll be quick. With regard to the last two points of the proposal from the Central Party, that a maximum period of 21 days is introduced for the reduction of the borrowing rate following a decision by the Bank of Norway, and that a maximum establishment fee is introduced for new loans equivalent to the bank's self-cost, we refer only to the rapporteur's excellent statement, which states why we are opposed to it. With regard to the first point of the proposal, that the settlement fee for mortgage bonds is set at self-cost, we support this together with the Progress Party, through a separate proposal, which Mr Ellingsen has made, that the Stortinget asks the Government to work out a solution from the financial year 2005 onwards so that the cost-benefit analysis fee is set on the basis of the principle of self-cost. We believe that such a self-cost charge will increase competition between banks and thus the pressure to keep borrowing rates low, and we also refer to the letter from the Consumer Council, which in its opinion to the Justice Committee has pointed out that they have long been in charge of reducing or removing this fee altogether. The Consumer Council considers the fee today to be significantly higher than the cost incurred in the clearing of mortgage bonds. I would like to join in the criticism expressed by the representative Ellingen of the Progress Party to the comments of the majority as to whether it is possible to find out what self-sufficiency would be. The letter from the Minister of Justice correctly states that this is difficult,'very difficult', but that is not impossible. So we clearly believe that this will be possible, and that is a common practice both in municipal and state administration. And that's not impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e660	The central party wants it to be easier to switch banks, the government wants it to be more expensive. Today it's a big day for the banks, and it's a sad day for the bank customers. Competition supervision has established that the amount of the clearing charge limits competition between banks over the customers of the loan, which they have to do for a long time. The centre party considers this lack of competition to be a social problem, and that, therefore, the cost of settlement needs to be reduced considerably. A majority in the European Parliament now refuses to remove this barrier to competition. The government even proposes an increase in the cost of raising funds from DKK 1 850 to NOK 2 000 in the revised national budget. It's almost not to believe! The banks, and in particular the biggest ones, who have now clearly gained a dominant role, are waiting to have everything they want. The result has been fewer banks and less competition for ordinary household customers. The Consumer Council's new survey in ours on what prevents household customers from changing banks shows that there is the cost of changing banks that means the most. The disclosure fee, which is seven times higher than what is needed to cover the expenditure of the State, dominates. The banks take advantage of this obstacle for what it's worth. The interest rate statistics show that the difference in interest rates is greater for small loans than for larger loans, simply because the cost of raising funds is the main obstacle to small loans. Today's decision is in favour of the largest banks, which are also the most expensive, and of a staggering state fund. We are talking about a major socio-economic loss when competition in such an important market is not working. It's reasonable to think that we're talking about billions of dollars in extra cost for households, which are holding up to the state's light-profit extra income of 400-500 million. kr. Clearly, what is self-sufficiency has been a problem for the Justice Committee to find out. We asked the investigation department, and received an answer on 5 March, stating that the 2002 State budget estimated the cost of clearing mortgage bonds at 90 million. kr. A halve of the cost of the current reorganisation is expected. In Sweden, costs are significantly lower than they are. The Committee considers that the establishment fee is a competitive element because the establishment fee is different from the bank to the bank. The Consumer Council's inquiry from this day forward shows that the bank's removal fee is considered to be an equally important obstacle to the settlement fee. So these are the numbers that the Consumer Council has got in ours, from the customers. The market is different from the position of customers from that of the Judicial Committee. The problem for customers is that it is difficult to get an overview of the different establishment fees from bank to bank, which vary over time. In 1997 a ban on such a transfer fee that many banks currently have was introduced in order to allow a free electricity market to function. It could have been a solution – that's not what we've proposed, but it could have been a solution. The transfer fee today varies from 0 to NOK 2000 on ordinary mortgages. The Financial Contracts Act requires the time that may elapse before the interest conditions change in the favour of customers. The central party also considers that such deadlines should be introduced after Norway’s Bank has reduced the interest rate on governance. It's not an attempt to determine how much interest is going to be set down, but it's for you to know after a certain number of days if it's going to be set down and how much it's going to be set down. Surveys carried out by the media show that the time spent reducing interest rates in the same bank varies from case to case. It's impossible to get an overview of exactly this. The waiting time today varies from 18 to 45 days in some of the banks surveyed. It is surprising and disappointing that a majority will not contribute to improving competition between banks for the benefit of households. This shows that consumers do not have as strong speakers in Norway as banks do. Consumers should do something about this. I would like to promote the proposal of the Central Party, which is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e688	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e698	We're ready to vote. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e707	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party The proposal of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party is included in the vote, while the proposal of the Centre Party is distributed in the Chamber. The vote will be taken at the beginning of an alternative vote between the vote and the proposal of the Central Party, which reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to facilitate the exchange of lenders for household customers by providing the certification fee for mortgage bonds until a maximum period of 21 days for the reduction of the borrowing rate is introduced by decision of the Bank of Norway with a maximum establishment fee for new loans corresponding to the bank’s own costs’.» The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:42 [[2003-2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e747	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘As from the financial year 2005, the Government is asked to work out a solution in such a way as to set the cost-benefit charge in accordance with the principle of self-sufficiency.’ The President assumes that the Central Party will now support the proposal subsidiaryly – it is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-02.ana.ud2252e771	There is no record.
