ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e30	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Fleet. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Flötten is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meeting today. The representative Steinar Bastesen will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e37	I want to make two private suggestions. One proposal is to introduce a criminal code against sexual relations with animals. The second proposal I would like to make is to have a wide-ranging Commission for the evaluation of political, legal, economic and ecological conditions in fisheries and how globalisation and the privatisation of resources affect fisheries and coastal communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e46	The representative, Sigbjørn Molvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e49	On behalf of the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo and myself, I would like to propose the establishment of criteria for a minimum standard of medical coverage at Norwegian nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e54	The representative Per Sandberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e57	On behalf of the representative Gjermund Hagesetter and myself, I would like to propose compensation/additional appropriations for the tax deficit in Norwegian municipalities in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e62	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The Bureau of Denmark's Folketing, led by the Chairman of the People's Party, Christian Mejdahl, is on an official visit with us and is present at the Gestival Gallery. It's a pleasure to welcome you to Stortinget. We appreciate this opportunity to further strengthen the many good ties between Folketing and Stortinget. The representatives applauded.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e88	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Dagfinn Høybrätten State Council Electiond Svarstad Haugland State Council Svein Ludvigsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e107	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: The party of progress has for a number of years fought for married and cohabiting pensioners to have their own full and legitimate basic pension. Then it's nice to be able to read, among other things. in an article series of Christian People’s Party depositors: «Married and cohabiting pensioners should be treated in the same way as other pensioners.» My question to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is this: can we now expect that the Christian People's Party is willing to continue the fight with the Progress Party, so that these pensioners get their full and legitimate basic pension and not shortening due to the form of life?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e119	It's true, as the representative Nesvik says, that for many years the Christian People's Party has held the view that a person must create a greater degree of justice in the pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. That is one of the reasons why we signed an agreement with the Progress Party to improve the pension for this group. We have fulfilled that agreement through the draft budget submitted by the Government to the Stortinge in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e124	It is absolutely right that you have fulfilled that part of the agreement. What is my question is whether the concept of equality is so to understand that the Christian People's Party will now work with the Progress Party for exactly that equality. We've got a smoothing and an improvement of the system, but we're not in goal. We want to get a 100 pst. order that makes you actually get your full and legally earned basic pension. What is my question is whether the Christian People's Party will now participate in a further escalation at a later stage, so that we get this in place. That is the way it must be understood when it is written that ‘married and cohabiting pensioners should be equalised’. I hope that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs can agree on that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e129	It's not hard to agree with the principle of principle. But we are now faced with a comprehensive reform of the whole of public confidence, one of the most important of which is to ensure that people's security is sustainable for future generations as well. At the same time, we need to ensure a fair pension system, a simpler pension system and a pension system that stimulates employment to a greater extent than today. For the time being, I am glad to see that the Progress Party will be involved in a comprehensive reform of popular security. But to the extent that the party will, it is clear that this is a question that it is natural to discuss when the Storting deals with the Government's proposals for pension reform and the big message we want to promote about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e136	There will be two follow-up questions – first John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e139	In politics, too, I believe that the principle of honoring the one to be honored should be adhered to. There have been a number of articles now from Christian People's Party representatives where they say they have fought through a case that married pensioners should be treated like other pensioners. The struggle of the Christian People's Party has led, was primarily about ensuring that married couples did not receive a greater pension than married couples. But it was the Progress Party that fought out the realities of the matter, and that got a deal with the government parties. The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund writes in an article in Varden: ‘We now see a clear improvement in the economic situation of many pensioners. The important thing, however, is that everyone is now on the right track to have the opportunity to earn the basic amount on their own. That's fair." Does the Minister for Social Affairs agree with his representative in what is written here, and can we expect a progress in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e151	I agree with Mr Alvheim that we should be talking to each other in terms of policy and giving homage to those who take an initiative and get an initiative through. Historically, it is a fact that the Christian People's Party, like the Advance Party, has been concerned with a greater degree of justice in terms of pensions for this group. We may well be so intertwined with each other that we can say that the decision taken by the Stortinget, which implies that this escalation has taken place, and continues to take place in 2005 if the Government's draft budget is adopted, would not have been possible without the Progress Party as well as the Christian People's Party and the other government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e157	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e160	Let me first say that it is a little surprising that the Progress Party raises this question – the Advance Party, which in the Pension Commission wants all the country's pensioners to be the minimum pensioners, and the rest they should take with them on the stock exchange and see if they are able to get an additional pension. That means that they want to be equal to married and cohabiting, but all of them have to be minimum pensioners. Let me then ask the Council of State a question. In the Pension Commission, it is a proposal from the majority that will mean that seven out of ten women get a worse pension than with today's system. Today's system has obvious weaknesses, but is to be replaced by a system in which seven out of ten women have lower pensions than with today's unfair system. My challenge to the High Council is this: he has said in many different contexts that this must be dealt with before the summer; this is important for us to have a consensus on; this is important for us to get ahead, because the pension system is not sustainable, according to the High Council. But my starting point is, does he really think that seven out of ten women should not get a better pension than they have today, but on the contrary, a worse pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e167	We are faced with a significant need for reform in terms of popular security. It is quite possible for this biging to push it over to the next biging, and for the next biging to push it over to the biging that comes then. But someone has to take responsibility for the future generations' pensions, because we are in a completely different situation today than we were when the people's fear was introduced. We had far more active behind every pensioner than we have now. We worked longer and we were in retirement shorter than we are now. That is why there is a significant need for reform. Of course, it is quite possible to hack into individual elements of the Pension Commission's position and thus undermine what Jens Stoltenberg said at the beginning of this period, namely that having a wide-ranging agreement on pension reform was the most important thing that should be addressed. That's what this government is all about, and we're going to promote a cause for the Storting. Then it has to be up to the Storting and the parties here to take responsibility for the future pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e172	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e175	I have a question for the Social Minister. In connection with the national government meeting in the Christian People's Party, Dagfinn Højbrätten said that the party will now escalate the debate on value. We in the Workers' Party think that's good. It's good that we get a value debate. On the other hand, we disagree with the Christian People's Party in several of the values taken by the party. The summit itself pointed to the subject of abortion and repeated the opposition of the Christian People's Party to self-determined abortion, and he warned that the work on this question should be stepped up. My question to Højbråten is: What does he mean by that? Does he mean that the Christian People's Party will resume the fight to change today's abortion law to deprive women of the right to decide for themselves whether to complete pregnancy or not within the 12th week of pregnancy, or does that mean other measures to weaken the right to self-determined abortion? It is not new that the Christian People's Party is against self-determined abortion, but it is new in the case that the Christian People's Party will escalate the struggle and change the law so that that right is weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e184	I look forward to a value debate with the Workers' Party and Jens Stoltenberg. If we can make the election campaign that comes, a focus on values other than the purely material ones, in the eyes of the Christian People's Party, it will be a good development. We're going to focus on family values that relate to the freedom of choice of families. We will focus on respect for human dignity, responsible management of natural resources and the environment. These are important value issues for the Christian People's Party. And when we talk about value questions, there's such a width of questions we want to address. We've realized that in this big picture and at all events after the abortion law was passed, it's been a majority of that law. That's why we've been working to reduce the number of abortions in other ways, for example. through an offensive action plan on abortion prevention. We're going to follow that up, in line with what we've done in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e193	I see it as a joy for both of us to have that debate, and it's nice that we can enjoy ourselves together. The other thing I see is that you're now about to say that you respect the abortion law that's been passed. I'm very happy about that. But what I'm afraid of then is that you want to do other things, for example. re-examine the question of access to ultrasound, try to find other rules or other ways to weaken real self-determination. Does that mean that Dagfinn Højbråten now says that nothing will be done in relation to regulations and regulations, for example. with regard to the use of ultrasound, which may impair the right of women to decide for themselves whether to complete pregnancy, as is currently the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e198	We're going to work on these issues that have to do with life and death in the deepest seriousness, based on the challenges we're facing. It concerns the issue of the protection of life at the end of life. We're going to stand firm against all attempts to promote active death help. We're also going to work for a better protection in the beginning of life, because that's what we think is important. But the big question is not now whether the Christian People's Party will make new advances in relation to, for example. the biotechnology law, which we have adopted in this process. The big question is what the Alliance Working Party and SV will do with the Biotechnology Act. For SV has voted in favour of the current Biotechnology Act, but the Workers' Party has voted against it. That's an interesting question, which we'll have to clarify in the value debate that we're looking forward to getting, among other things. with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e203	There will be two follow-up questions – first Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e206	As the representative of Stoltenberg said, the Workers' Party is concerned with values, and our party is also motivated by values. But the question is which premises underlie the values, and they're probably different for the Christian People's Party than for the Workers' Party. What has startled me and surprised me is that the leaders of the Christian People's Party are using the most reactionary forces in the United States in the presidential election, where strongly right-wing Christian fundamentalist groups against abortion, against biotechnological research, against homophilia and against the UN family planning programme have progressed strongly. What the Christian People's Party's leader contributes to when he uses the term "free abortion" and will fight free abortion is to contribute to the uncertainty among women, the insecurity of all those who perceive that the abortion law is firm. To me, this was a gust of the past, from my youth's struggle for the right to self-determined abortion and self-determined maternity. I would like to ask the Council of State: is it also so that he will re-examine the proposal on the right to life from conception to death?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e213	When attacking a political opponent or a co-player, at least you should stick to the facts. I have in no way taken President Bush or his views on income in the Norwegian debate. On the contrary, I have made it clear that a Norwegian debate is a Norwegian debate, and an American presidential election campaign is something quite different. When it comes to value issues, it is right that in some questions related to the family's position, which relate to the view of stem cell research, etc., Christian People's Party has views similar to those of the Bush administration. But on a number of other issues that are also issues of value, which have to do with human rights, which have to do with the death penalty, which has to do with the view of the Iraq war, which has to do with the view of environmental protection and the entire climate policy, the Christian People's Party has other values than Bush. That's a great distance. Therefore it is not possible to stick the Christian People's Party or the Christian People's Party leader to George Bush, as Marit Nybakk is now trying to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e221	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e224	The Council of State Højbråten says that the Christian People's Party will not promote its proposal to abolish the right to self-determined abortion, because it is not within the reach of the majority of the Storting. But President Bush is within the reach of a majority in the United States, not least in relation to the guidelines given by the United States for international support and work, which immediately after the Bush administration took over, meant that many important projects relating to women's right to manage their own birth and pregnancy were lost. It's a change that's probably killed a lot of women around the world. Does the Council of State support the international work of the Højbräten Bush to deny women the right to contraception and abortion?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e229	I have to say that in my party program you have some points for which there is no majority in the Stortinget, and which you are thus working for in a slightly different way than by promoting them as purely demonstration proposals in the hall, I guess the SV is not completely unknown about. It also applies to your party, whether I have to tell the representative Halvorsen. When it comes to the question of American administration policy in different areas, I think we should hold the debate here in Norway at home, on what the Christian People's Party and what the SV stand for. We cannot support a restrictive approach to prevention, because we see that the use of condoms is one of the most important strategic measures to combat the AIDS epidemic, which is suffocating in an entire continent, Africa. We are not in favour of the same policy. With regard to the perception of abortion, we believe that it is the authorities of each country that have to decide how to manage legislation in this area – in Norway as in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e238	We move on to the next main question – from Kristin Halvorsen, who is already in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e241	It is tempting to follow up this track. While many of us in Norway were startled by the mobilization of family values that has obviously happened in the US presidential election campaign, it was the council of Højbrätten who said in Dagsrevyen last Friday that he felt inspired by this value struggle. I do not hold the Council of State High Council responsible for the policies of the American President, but I wonder what it is that has inspired. Because there are two trends that you can now set your finger on as a basis for this value mobilization in the United States. One is an extreme fight against the right to self-determined abortion, which is so severe that women who go to the clinic are bullied on the stairs. The second is a homophobic struggle against the right of homosexuals to enter into a partnership. Both of these positions share the Christian People's Party in their program. I'm just wondering, how is the Council of State Hojbräten inspired by the American value-election struggle?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e246	I don't know where Kristin Halvorsen got it from that I've been expressing that I'm inspired by the American election campaign. I have said that I think it is interesting that value questions come up in the polling as the most important thing for the voters. But there's value questions on both sides. There are questions of value from the democratic voters, as it is from the Republican voters. I have, in a previous reply to the representative Marit Nybakk here today, made it very clear that we hold different values in important areas where there are also value issues, than President Bush and his administration do. It is not that the Christian People's Party stands for a bullying of women and a homophobic struggle against the rights of homosexuals. We don't. We might have a slightly different view, you and I, on the question of whether we're going to establish adoption for gay couples, whether we're going to equate gay partnerships in marriage law, but it's something quite different than the kind of characteristics that are now being drawn out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e251	I think it's a little strange if the Council of State has a very separate summary of the value issues of the U.S. election campaign and how they came out. Everywhere else, the election campaign is just summed up by the fact that ultra-conservative Christian America mobilized against gay partnership and marriage and against self-determined abortion. Now let's take this question about homophilis. In the Christian People's Party program, there are two essential value issues that the Christian People's Party has decided not to promote. In fact, the Christian People's Party believes that the Norwegian Partnership Act, which gives homosexuals the right to enter into partnerships, is to be repealed. This is an important trend in what is now being mobilised in the U.S. election campaign, which means that gay people have been frightened by their ability to organize their own love as married couples do. What strategy does the Christian People's Party have, which at all points where gay rights have been improved in Norway, oppose? What is the Christian People's Party's strategy for repealing the Norwegian Partnership Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e258	The representative of Halvorsen is now trying to raise a debate that is not a current debate in the Norwegian Grand Prix. It is not a majority, as far as I have registered, and it has not been since 1993, for another law on partnership law. The discussion is now on whether to have a full equality between marriage law and partnership law, so that homosexuals have free access to adopt children. That's the big issue, and that's the Christian People's Party against it, because we believe that the best thing for children is that in an adoption situation, the general rule should be that you are adopted by a mother and a father. These are questions that we'll probably be able to discuss further. But the attempts of the opposition here today to stick the Christian People's Party to George Bush I take a sharp distance from, that's not the actual basis for it. And we're not going to identify with the kind of values that I've marked a clear distance from here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e263	There will be three follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e266	The conservative view that says that homosexuals do not have the same right to love, marriage and partnership, and the conservative view that says that women should not have the right to safe medical abortion, kill thousands, if not millions, of women and men around the world, and have made it up through history. The council says he admits that the point of right to safe custody is a matter of life or death. But there are also issues about the right to medically sound abortion and the right to live a decent life when you have a gay lay. Does not the Council of States see that his view of these issues contributes to putting life and health at risk in many countries if the policies he stands for are to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e273	Let me stress the following: We do not intend on the part of the Christian People's Party to implement our policy on abortion legislation, in other countries – I do not know if SV has it, but we do not. But as far as we're concerned, that's not the way it's now caricured by the representative Karin Andersen. It is not that we are opposed to a medically sound scheme for abortion. We're not. It shall be medically sound. But we are, unlike SV, concerned that the unborn life should also have a protection in the law. There's a disagreement that we have to be able to live with, without driving and caricing each other's positions, as we experience here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e279	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e282	In relation to the Christian People's Party's focus on human dignity, it is a page that wonders us in the Center Party, and it is the everyday life of parents who have chosen to present a disabled child. Because, in fact, there are parents who take this choice, not because society stands up, but because society stands up. And now the Christian People's Party in government has been involved in its 2005 budget proposal to exacerbate a difficult situation. I am thinking about the many messages that come with special education that will be cut, support contacts that will be removed, and downloaded that will be reduced. Why does the Christian People's Party not engage more in this field, if they want to strengthen human dignity?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e287	The Christian People's Party has engaged in this field, and as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I have grasped it. I'm going to develop an overall strategy on how, as a society, we can better support parents with disabled children. Already in the draft State budget, several million kroner are spent on various actions targeting that group, including: improvement of the childcare habilitation service and commitment to a life course for parents with disabled children. In the strategy we are now working on, we are going to look at how the various measures, both municipal, to which the representative Meltveit Kleppa now refers, and state-owned, can work together to form a whole, because we are not only concerned with preventing sorting before birth, we are also concerned with preventing sorting after birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e292	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e295	I think it's interesting to hear the Social Minister's argument. When he is met with criticism of the Christian People's Party's policy in relation to taking from women self-determined rights to abortion and removing the partnership law, which gives gay couples security, he says: but there is no majority for that. Fortunately, other parties have different positions to ensure that that policy is not implemented. I want to get hold of the Partnership Act, which the Christian People's Party will repeal. It shall ensure, inter alia: couples who have been together for perhaps 30–40 years. If one falls from, the other may have inheritance rights, live in the same place, etc., as married couples can. We hear about cases where one partner is actually denied access to the funeral to his partner over many decades, because the relatives have not like the gay community. The Partnership Act provides people with security in such situations. My question is, why will the Christian People's Party remove this security for people living together in gay couples? I accept that the Christian People's Party does not like that people are gay, but can you not show respect for the fact that others want to live differently from what the Christian People's Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e304	Now it is a while since the Partnership Act was adopted, but I dare remind the representative Guess that the Christian People's Party did not have the position that there should not be any kind of legal regulation of the kind of social needs and social conditions to which he now refers. Of course it should be. Of course, it should also be for homosexuals to live together. That is also the view of the Christian People's Party today. We believe that, for social reasons on the part of society, it should be a legal regulation of the kind that prevents people who choose to live together as gay couples from coming into a socially irresponsible and unhappy situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e311	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e314	I also allow myself to ask questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs. We are now receiving reports that the work on reducing sick leave finally seems to be successful. It is the result of close cooperation between the social partners and the authorities, based on a written agreement. This is an important effort to get a more inclusive working life, to reduce sick leave and disability, and not least to make better use of the resources and labour of older workers. So now we see that the government has gone to the step of breaking the agreement. What kind of credibility does the Council of State think the Government should have in such work, when it breaks a written agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e323	Like previous governments, this government has invested in the IA agreement, and we have invested heavily in it. The problem, however, is that the agreement has not delivered in relation to the clear objectives set, in 20 p.m. reduction of sick leave. That is why it has been necessary to strengthen IA work in the workplace, and we also believe that the responsibility of the employer to prevent long sick leave, which is what leads to exclusion from the labour market, and which unfortunately has not fallen to the same extent as the short absence. We believe that it was absolutely necessary to take new action – and not just sit calm and watch that the IA agreement did not deliver results in relation to its objectives. Now the sick leave goes down. It's a pleasure, but it's a long way to go with the goals set at the conclusion of the IA agreement. The government is committed to the agreement. We will continue it on the basis that will result from the Storting budgetary procedure, and we stress that the measures adopted will help to give an incentive to greater efforts by employers in the field of sick leave. I should also like to remind you that the Workers' Party, by its governments, has previously made proposals that go further in imposing a responsibility on the employer during the sick leave period than this government has now proposed. The Workers' Party has also consistently supported proposals for increased employers' responsibilities for sick pay when it has been up or promoted by other governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e336	But that's not the question. The point is that all parties had to contribute to a joint commitment and accepted commitments through a written agreement. I don't think the Council of State takes inward that agreements exist to be held, that they actually give up a commitment. Thus, at the time when sick leave really increased, just before New Year's Eve last year – unlike now, when it goes down – the Government entered into a new agreement, where it not only continued what had been previously, but where it actually entered into the agreement that the wording of the agreement in paragraph 3.6 sub-paragraph i is amended to: «The Government will not propose to Stortinget that changes be made during the contract period to the current sickness scheme, either for employees or for employers, unless all parties to the contract agree to it.» – signed by the Minister of Labour, signed by the Minister of Social Affairs. What credibility should this government have when, less than a year after entering into such an agreement, it breaks at an entirely fundamental point?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e350	I record that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen will not discuss the matter. There he is in line with a number of other debaters in this matter. These are actually very good arguments for the proposal that the Government has made. And that's the government's responsibility when developments go in the wrong direction; when an agreement doesn't deliver in relation to the assumptions, the goals, that are set, the government can't just sit and watch. That is why the Government has promoted this proposal for the Storting, and it is now up to the Storing to decide on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e358	There will be four follow-up questions – first Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e361	A value debate makes sense only if these values can be traded in action. It's very easy to have a lot of values inside your head, but that's what you're actually doing, which is ultimately crucial. A very important value is to keep words, to act so that you can trust what is actually said. When you sign an agreement that you should not make changes to your health insurance scheme, either for the employee or for the employer, and then make changes, you don't keep words. Then the values become just some loose thoughts inside your head and not practical action in reality. That is the serious problem of this government. The government knew – in fact, it says in the agreement – that it would not achieve the 20 pst targets. reduction of sick leave. Nevertheless, they signed and guaranteed zero change. A year later, one billion dollars are spent on tax credits to the richest people in Norway. It's unsocial, but first of all it's a violation of a fundamental value, that the government has to be to trust that you have to keep words, and that values aren't just solve thoughts, but actually something that obliges you to behave. The question is whether the Council of State understands that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e372	I think I understand what the representative Stoltenberg is saying. I also have a great deal of understanding that the social partners have reacted strongly to the proposal. I'm now at the sixth year as a state councillor, and I've had years to experience the exact same thing. Every year when we come to the budgetary procedure, the room for action that the Government has is more than eaten up by the automatic expenditure increases on the social security budget. It's a major problem in Norwegian society. In addition, it is a major problem that long-term absences are increasing. Longest absences are increasing, leading to exclusion from the labour market. These are the factual arguments that the Government cannot sit still and look at a development where the agreement that has been concluded does not deliver in relation to what is in the agreement. We then thought it was right to propose a price adjustment, which is up to the Stortingen to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e379	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e382	If the agreement on an inclusive working life was so important – as it was – it's amazing that the government took the risk of putting the entire contract on the line as it did. It is also interesting to hear the Council of State now saying that he lacks money. But where is it when he takes the money from? Yes, he agreed to the agreement that would ensure that we reduced our sick leave, and not least that we got more unemployed people back into work. I want to challenge the Council of State on it, because, as sick leave goes down, the number of disabled people goes up. It is an important part of the agreement on an inclusive working life that I do not think the government has delivered at all. For example, in the state sector and in the municipal sector, people are worn out, disembarked and evicted because they have such harsh conditions. The government says in its draft budget that there are conditions at work that create sick leave and exclusion, but the only thing the government is doing about it is tightening up against those who are out there and who are now getting sick. What does the Government intend to do with its own framework, in its own activities and in municipal activities in order to keep people healthy and at retirement age?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e391	The answer to the last question is to ensure that public enterprises, municipal and state enterprises become IA enterprises and assume the obligations under the IA agreement. As far as the representation of Karin Andersen's case is concerned, it's to put it completely on the head. After all, the whole reason for the Government’s proposal to give employers co-responsibility for the prevention of sick leave is to get employers on the job. Instead of budgeting the income of the social security office to correct the bottom line at the end of the year, we want them to go on the track and take responsibility, to cost them something not to prevent sick leave. It is in the interests of the employees, and not least in their interests, who have the longest sick leave, and who are in danger of staying there where both the representative Karin Andersen and I want them not to end up, that is, as dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e398	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e401	The reason why this debate has arisen now is that the Government, among other things. in the context of the evaluation of the IA Agreement last year, it has actually admitted that the objective of sick leave is not met. Actually, you would already have taken that inwards before you made this proposal. The most important thing about this issue was that the IA agreement was based on three main pillars. There were three main things to try to do. It was getting more disabled people into work, it was raising the real retirement age, and it was reducing sick leave by 20 pst. by the end of 2005. With the proposal now in the state budget to increase the proportion of companies in sick leave by 10 p.m., does the Council not see that if you look forward to getting disabled into work, you get the opposite effect on one of the main goals, because it becomes more difficult for disabled people and people with chronic illness to get a job out of business?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e408	No, it's not that simple. Firstly, disabled people are not a uniform group which can be stigmatised in the way that lies below the question posed by the representative Nesvik. Disabled persons are talents that need a certain way into working life, but they are reliable people who are not in general and in any case represent a greater level of sick leave than others. But just to protect chroniclers, who have a greater sick leave, the government has proposed to exempt chroniclers from this scheme. That is, the state pays the sickness allowance in full throughout the sick pay period for those who are chronically ill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e413	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e416	I have to say I react strongly to the Council's description, that the business community does not take responsibility for reducing sick leave. I myself am the director and the co-owner of an industrial enterprise which, like the rest of the economy and as far as the public sector is concerned, is increasingly aware of increasing international competition and a cost pressure which, in turn, leads to increased pressure on employees. The easiest way for business to reduce long-term sick leave is not to hire those who are thought to have just that kind of absence, i.e. an exclusion through an employment policy that will hit the weakest in society. That would be the easiest solution. Is there such a development that the Council of State wants when it shifts an increasingly large part of the economic burden on business in relation to long-term sick leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e424	No, and the representative Odd Roger Enoxsen knows it's not like that. That is exactly why we have made sure that the protection system currently in force during the employer's period for chroniclers applies throughout the sick pay period. Then I will give the representative Odd Roger Enoxsen right on one point, and it is that there are a lot of employers who do an excellent job in preventing sick leave and ensuring that workers come back faster, by facilitating and adapting the job. It must have not least business. At the same time, there are too many employers – approx. half of them — which have not yet taken up this by becoming IA enterprises. Unfortunately, there are many employers who look at the sickness pay from the social security office as a subsidy to the company’s accounts, and not primarily as a help in introducing measures when people get sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e433	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e436	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. The downsizing in the Post has led to about half of the so-called over-numbered people being insured, and there are over 1,200 job seekers for waiting pay. If this becomes a permanent arrangement until they are pensioners, it will mean large expenditure in the form of only pure waiting wages. From 1997 until now, more than 3,800 deaths have also occurred in this context. In total, this means large expenditure on public budgets – only in the case of waiting wages and disability benefits, almost DKK 4 billion. Many who are in this situation signal that they would rather have been at work. The post office has reduced the manning so much that it has gone beyond the service, among other things. in the case of mail accommodation. Is it happening, right labour and employment policy? Is it the right social policy? And is there a proper development in public service and quality of service? Does the Council of State, as Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, mean that the Post, through its rationalisation and de-employment, takes the right steps? And is the Post a public enterprise that practices inclusive work in the right way, with this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e445	Let me first stress that in this answer I focus on what is my area of responsibility, labour and social policy. Then it's up to the Minister of Transport to answer for the Storting in relation to her responsibility for the management of Posten and Posten's services. I believe that in the society in which we live, there is a significant need for transformation in the public sector. There is a tearing trend in other services in society, a tearing trend in people’s needs for services, people’s ways of providing services and people’s use of information technology in approaching public services. In particular, the Post and other public services have been branded as a pressure to change. And when you change, it's like, to adapt to the needs of society in the future. I don't want to comment on the individual parts of this, just saying that it's important in conversion processes to ensure employee participation, and that through the arrangements that society has, the employees who become redundant are cared for in a proper and dignified way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e454	I am a little surprised at the passive attitude of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs towards what is the point, that of passivating people, not giving them work and thus transferring them to disability, inaction and public budgets in that context. Should it not be a task for everyone, not least for the Government, to actively contribute to people getting work and thus to provide services and services to society rather than being passive, ill and ill, and then contributing to large, growing social security costs? The Minister himself said that there are some companies that use social security subsidies to increase the profits of businesses. This is an example of that. The item now has an increasing surplus, but at the same time there is a large number of people who are referred to social security and waiting wages, and for whom government payments are made in this way. Wouldn't it be better to maintain a higher level of public service than to do it this way and at the same time let many people get into a very hopeless and desperate situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e461	Let me just stress that I believe, as the representative of Lutvold, that it is important to prevent exclusion from working life, and that it is particularly important in conversion processes to have an eye on how to manage your responsibilities, how to take care of those who become persuasive, and how to use the arrangements that apply, in a way that contributes as much as possible to preventing exclusion. On the question of the level of service to be provided in the Post and how postal services should be developed in this country, I ask that this question be raised to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e468	There will be three follow-up questions – first Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e471	It is true that the Council of State as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has major challenges, but also special opportunities with this combination to monitor what is happening in the municipalities, what is happening in the state — including in other councils of state — and what is happening in the labour market. I assume that he, like the Center Party, is busy and concerned that there are too many individuals in this country now a situation where meaningful work is replaced against unemployment, where fewer hands have to do more work, and where one thus gets both long-term sick leave and disability. Now, the Council of State has a unique possibility in its work to evaluate the Labour Law Selection's position to see how it can provide workers with security, how it can ensure greater stability in working life than many are currently proposing. Is he going to follow it up with that angle of incidence?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e480	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa is quite right that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is also involved in areas other than what he himself is constitutionally responsible for, but that he is preferably trying to answer for what he is constitutionally responsible for. But when it comes to the issue of the suspension of the Employment Act Committee, it is my responsibility. I can assure you that the Government is fully involved in this matter. We are going to go into the hearings in depth, which contain many and strong views, and we are not going to come forward with a proposal that is a blue copy of the majority voting in the Labour Law Committee. We're going to promote a proposition for the Storting in winter, and it's going to show that in this country we still want a work environment law that has the primary purpose of ensuring the working environment of the workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e485	Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e488	I fully agree with the questioner that changes in the Post have led to the transfer of expenditure to the social security budget, so that it costs about the same for the state, one has just moved it to another budget. The post office is required by post, not by profit. The level of service in the Post has fallen. I've learned that myself. What has the Council of State planned to do to improve the level of service, or at least keep it at the same level as we had before the Post would start going with profit?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e496	State Council The Højbråt chooses even if he wants to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e499	Regarding this supplementary question, I would like to limit myself to referring to the answers I have given in relation to the main question, and otherwise refer questions relating to the level of service in the Post Office to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e504	Sigbjørn Molvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e507	The conditions in the Post that we have been described in the last days also apply to other state enterprises. We know that, for example, in the Road Service has been a reorganization which has in many places led to a sharp increase in sick leave and in disability. So savings in one area lead to more expenditure on others that others here have been involved in. When the Government prepares or proposes this type of reorganization for the future, will the Council of State take the initiative to include the entire accounts of society and to calculate the costs of this type of proposal, not just the short-term savings?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e514	In large conversion processes, it is important to keep an eye on the whole picture and not just look at what you can save, but perhaps first of all at what you want to achieve, and how you want to develop public services in relation to the needs of the audience. I believe that insofar as it can be said in advance that the development of the representative Molvik is now described – on a general basis – it is an important part of an analysis that must be the basis for conversion processes and decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e521	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e524	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. A Monday report showed that climate change is not science fiction. Climate change is not a doomsday prophecy. Climate change is now taking place. They're man-made. And what should interest the Council of State and me in particular is that they happen twice as fast in the Arctic as otherwise. The temperature path, the ice melts, and this affects the ocean currents and then the marine ecosystems. The fish is Norway's second largest export article, and it's both the Council of State and I occupied. In this context, this is important because the impact on the Norwegian fishing industry may be high if climate change impacts on fish resources are not monitored as early as possible. My question is very simple: how does the Council of State view this report and this evidence that climate change is happening, and that it is happening now?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e535	The impacts of climate change described in that report are not new, but it is a new confirmation that scientists believe it has consequences – naturally – for marine ecosystems as well. At the same time, we can see that the vast majority of species moving in the northern areas where Norway has administrative responsibilities are growing. At the same time, we can see that over a number of years we have pursued a management policy based on a long-term outreach. In this way we can see that although there have been climate change and there are climate change, populations are in good condition. Marine research, the Polar Institute and others have ongoing research and monitoring, and so far, efforts have been made to take account of the totality when determining the extraction of marine species.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e540	But the point here is that we don't know the long-term consequences. I must admit that I wonder if the Council of State is really concerned, or whether he welcomes climate change and a warmer climate. Governments are right that on the one hand it can lead to growth in some of our species, if these changes become moderate, while on the other hand, if the changes become drastic, for example. can lead to what is for us commercially important populations, such as cod and herring, moving out of our zones. My question to the Council of State is, what do we do? The evening post today writes that they hope that politicians will take this constructively inward, and that this will necessarily have to take place in relation to the entire Norwegian community planning. Not only do we need to reduce greenhouse gases, but we need to have this with us in all social planning. It will also concern fish, not only for total population, but how we manage our species. Then I wonder: How will the Minister for Fisheries take up this job after this report?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e547	The job was taken long before this report was published. For a long time, changing governments have been aware that climate change is taking place, and that climate policy and its results also have consequences for marine species. As I tried to say in my first answer, at the same time, there is growth in the vast majority of populations moving in these areas. But at the same time, it's a confession that, for example, pelagic fish change migration patterns, without a full picture of the cause. It is hardly just climate change that underlies it. But the answer to the question is that this is an overall policy, and at the same time it has to do with the annual management of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e554	There will be two follow-up questions – first Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e558	The report referred to by the representative Åsa Elvik has been prepared by 250 researchers on behalf of the Arctic Council. In the Arctic Council, the Nordic countries are very central. Svein Ludvigsen is also Minister of Cooperation for Norway at the Nordic Council, and he is certainly well aware of the work being done in the Arctic Council. During the Nordic Council's session in Stockholm, an interesting phenomenon occurred, and it was that the Council of State took action in relation to alcohol policy by using the Nordic Council more actively than has been done in the past, also in relation to countries outside the Nordic Council. My question to the Council of State Ludvigsen is therefore: Can he also think of taking a similar approach to this problem and using the Nordic Council as an important tool to address this issue with other countries, at least in Europe, so that we can take action in relation to climate change, which is an international matter and not just a national matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e567	It is an international research group that has presented this report, so that there is already wide international and global cooperation on these issues. In this way, both the National Assembly of Norway and the Nordic Council of Ministers become demarcated. This is a problem not least of which the UN and international research are concerned. Arctic cooperation is already well organised in Nordic cooperation. We need to strengthen it, and we need to exploit the resources in this area, and research is also done under the Nordic umbrella.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e574	Bendiks H. Arnesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e577	What is going on in climate change is a worrying situation, and one might well say that there is a lot of thinking about both the basis for this and what can be the solution and the consequences. In Norway, we have a high level of competence in these issues, not least through the Tromsø environment. Both fisheries research and the Polar Institute are international resources on such issues. Will the Council of State contribute to increased research in this area, in order to improve the clarity of the relationship and thereby find ways to put in place instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e582	When we have now produced another report that addresses these issues, it is among other things. the consequence that this government has given priority to this area. Research and development is a priority area. Research and development related to climate and through which industrial development is then determined as a priority area. The Polar Institute was mentioned, Fisheries Research in so far as it is, but the Institute of Marine Research is an even more important body in this context. The Institute for Marine Research and the Polar Institute is central to the Norwegian professional environment in these areas. After all, the Polar Institute has been researching this for a long time, pointing to this development, not least linked to the Gulf Stream, so that it is not entirely new to what is presented, but it is a confirmation that climate change is taking place. But for my area, I can see that resource development is at the same time positive for most species.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e589	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e595	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from Rita Tveiten to the Minister for Finance, will be answered that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade will address him. Question 18, from the representative of Torstein Rudihagen to the Minister of Defence, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 1, i.e. first in the Questionnaire. In addition, question 16 from the representative Olav Aksensen to the Minister for Transport was raised by the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e608	The first question to be answered after these changes is question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e615	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: «The future uncertainty of FLO's warehouse, Hovemoen, has continued to be created in connection with the conversion to the Defence Logistics Organisation. This despite the fact that here is the best tipping skills in logistics, the best storage technology in the market and good efficiency. The Defence Committee underlined this and concluded that Hovemoen should be maintained during the examination of St.prp. [[2003-2004]] No 42 Will the Council of State now take control and ensure that the Hovemo remains?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e624	As the representative Rudihagen clearly underlined, the Defence Logistics Organisation's warehouse at Hovemoen is a modern warehouse that has contributed to significant efficiency gains for the Defence. In line with the opinion of the Defence Committee at the Innst. S. No 234 for 2003-2004 the positive experience gained in the operation of the warehouse at Hovemoen in the future will also be used in other parts of the Defence, where appropriate. The majority has pointed out on several occasions the importance that the Defence Logistics Organisation achieves the migration targets set for both the current and the next long-term. It is essential to succeed in the further modernisation and conversion of defence. It is also essential to free up sufficient funds for defence activities and for investment, so-called investment at the top of the defence. Therefore, targeted and constructive work is now being undertaken to maximise the cost-effective organisation of logistics and support activities, just as the leaders of the Stortinget suggest. An increase in the relevance and quality of the support of the logistical organisation to be provided to the operational structure of the defence shall be achieved not least by exploiting the synergies within and between the defence sectors. It will also mean a significant adjustment to the stock structure as a result of changing requirements and needs in place to support operational forces. However, I would like to stress that in line with the Stortinge's comment in Innst. S. No 234 the Hovemoen will be maintained as stock, but with a size and crew adapted to the needs of the Defense, just as the Committee stated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e642	I can assure the Minister of Defense that I will not spend a penny more than necessary on the Norwegian defence. So this is about the Hovemo, which until recently has had 120 settings. As the Minister for Defence himself points out, this is a major investment, and it is top technology and top competence. Should not the approach and approach be how to exploit this in a future efficient logistics organisation? There must be more to win than centralising it towards the Oslo area, while driving and forcing state supervision in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e647	Of course, I agree with the representative Rudihagen that centralizing with one hand and decentralizing with the other hand is not rational. What I would like to stress is that the transformation that is now taking place in Defence is to shrink considerably on the support structure and to be more active on the operational side, among other things. with new joint institutions to serve both army, sea and air. In relation to the Lillehammer district, it means that Hovemoen, which is primarily a warehouse, we will need less in relation to the previous volume, simply because many of the deliveries in the future will go directly from the supplier to the user and not via a cache. But the Lillehammer area also has a positive effect on what's happening on the other side, and then I think of Jørstadmoen, which is a new common command and control information system for the entire Defence, both army, sea and air, and which will be a typical growth area for Defence. So, in relation to the Lillehammer region, both the growth and the new initiative and the necessary reduction and shrinking of the support activities are included, but not the closure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e654	So I'm not asking about Jørstadmoen. One has previously also referred to Jørstadmoen when the Hovemoen has been on the agenda. The Minister of Defense referred to what was said by Stortinget, that Hovemoen was to exist as a warehouse adapted to the needs of the Defence, but it is very unclear what lies in it. Last week there was a big look in the locals at Lillehammer that they added at the Hovemoen feel failed. Now they don't work at Hovemoen camp anymore, they feel that they're being fooled by the Defense. There is a situation that repeats, so there are two issues here. The only one is to find good reasons to lay down the Hovemo when one will streamline the FLO. I don't want to see that. The second is the human resources policy here, that the various items fall into the head of them and make the future of them very uncertain. We've been dealing with the transition in the FLO for several rounds, and the last one was given a good deal of positive signal from the Stortinget to those added at Hovemoen, which made them optimistic and have worked constructively out of it. The last time was a 40–50 job offer. Now, all of a sudden, there's a new deal about the work package that's on the table, which actually means a reduction of the Hovemo. How are they supposed to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e663	I will first begin by saying that I have a significant understanding of the situation of the employees in the defence. When Stortinget has ordered the defense to reduce the staff by 5,000, there is a significant challenge for the employees, both those working in the logistics organisation and those working in the rest of the defence. We are in a situation where the deadline for reaching the crew figure is 31 December 2005. It's one more year, so now it's the logistics organization and the support structure that's going to be part of the downsizing. This means that we need to have a great deal of understanding of the situation of employees. But it doesn't exempt us from doing the mission, and the investigation that's under the control of the FLO now, it's happening on behalf of the Stortinget, because the Stortinget has said that even the FLO's conversion must be done to get the desired transfer of resources from the support side to the operational side. So I can only say that the big thing's clear comment, namely that the Hovemo as a store is going to pass according to the needs of the defense, is firm, but the defence needs mean a smaller dimension than today because many of the known storage functions actually disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e668	So we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e674	This question, from Rita Tveiten's representative to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e677	I will ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘In Statsbygg’s newsletter 10/2004, it states that the Skarsteinsdalen camp must be sold, and that Andøy Municipality and Change Property cooperate to find a common strategy that can contribute to new activity in local areas. Innovation Norway has now provided support in the 10-million-dollar class to a current user to build new premises in the municipality. Is it not better to use the resources of the State that the economic operator concerned receives support for upgrading the camp for its purpose?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e686	The company/user concerned to which the representative refers, Nutra Forte, produces food supplements. The company is in strong development and therefore needs larger and more suitable premises than it currently has in the centre of the Andes. The original plans were that the company would establish itself on the defence property in Skarsteinsdalen, 14 kilometres from the center of Andes. The premises would be transferred free of charge from the Defence. Innovation Norway pledged part-financing of 6.2 million. SEK in risk loans and SEK 4.5 million. SEK in grants for the project, which will significantly extend the production. According to information provided to the Ministry, after the undertaking was given by Innovation Norway, a detailed design of the plant and a recalculation of the costs incurred by the company was carried out. It turned out that it would be more expensive than originally provided to rebuild the property in the Skarstein valley. The increase in costs is essentially linked to more demanding conversion and strict requirements for ‘food quality’ on the building stock. In addition, long-distance logistics challenges to the port were greater than originally assumed. The company then concluded that it would not be economically viable to implement the project in Skarsteinsdalen. The existing plans are now reconstructing and expanding the existing premises in the centre of the Andes. After I have been informed, the option is not now a location to the Skarstein valley for the company, but either a scrapping of the project, with the negative consequences it gets, or an establishment outside the municipality. Innovation Norway has informed the Ministry that they will continue to participate in the project with the same funds as previously adopted. It is Innovation Norway's assessment that the company in this case has behaved correctly and cleanly. I would also like to show that there is a significant amount of money on the part of the company in the investigation of the option Skarsteinsdalen. When, after an overall assessment, the enterprise finds a location at the centre of the Andes as a more profitable alternative, while not weakening the impact of nutrition and district policy, I have no comment on the involvement of Innovation Norway in the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e697	I thank you for your answer. I just want to make it clear that I think it is brilliant that the company in question will strengthen its activity in the Andeya municipality. So my appeal point here is not what the company has contributed to – I would just like to clarify is brilliant – but that's how we should use infrastructure that becomes available, in a sensible way in a small municipality in Norway. The costs that will be incurred by cleaning up the Skarstein valley camp will actually be up to 200 million. kr if you cannot find a good use for these locals. So my question is whether the Minister of Industry does not have a responsibility to contribute to the fact that the vacant locals that we are going to get around should consult businessmen, and that any money can be spent to upgrade them for that purpose, so that a total amount of money can be spent on society in a sensible way. I assume it would have been possible to adjust quite a lot for 200 million. kr, which is now needed to clean up the building, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e706	The question that has been asked to me is why this company is no longer interested in this property. And as I also gave a reason for in my answer, it's told me that it turns out that it's going to be more expensive than originally provided to rebuild the property in the Skarstein valley. The increase in costs is essentially linked to more demanding conversion and strict requirements for ‘food quality’ on the building stock. The company itself has invested not insignificant funds for design in the Skarstein valley and has found that this option is not a viable alternative for this company. Then Innovation Norway has continued to support this enterprise, because there are important jobs in Andes. However, alternative use of this defence property lies in departments other than the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e713	I am very sceptical about the fact that there is another department to decide on the use, because here it is about the state's interests and the state's means to help the development of nutrition on the bone. It's affordable and great in itself, I fully support it. However, the question is whether it is such that the Ministry of Industry and Trade and Innovation Norway are initially sceptical about the use of defence courts that become vacant and can facilitate interested businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e718	The answer to this with scepticism, I also had in my original answer, where I said that Innovation Norway had actually been willing to go in with 10 million. kr i support through various instruments to this company, because they wanted to establish themselves in the former defence plant. Then the company has found, after it has invested not insignificant funds in design, that this defence system was not adapted to their operations. The alternative now is either that they get this money and can expand their business in the Seconds, or that they move to another municipality. Then I think it's a good idea that these district jobs are kept there. I think it's a good idea for them to invest. Then the company itself – even after using not insignificant funds – has found that this is too far from the port and it is too expensive and that the requirements of a food business cannot easily be met at this plant. Then there is no skepticism in the department or in Innovation Norway. On the contrary, Innovation Norway has been willing to support its establishment there. However, when the enterprise itself does not want to establish itself there, but establishes itself elsewhere, it must be up to the enterprise and its business-economic assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e729	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘Does the Council of State consider the safety of Norwegian prisons to be sufficient?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e736	The safety of Norwegian prisons is good, also in relation to comparable countries. This can be seen, among other things. In 2003, there was one single escape from closed prisons in Norway. For the first eleven months of this year, there have been two such escapes. These are very low numbers, even on an international scale. Security is also measured in the concrete assessments carried out by prisons around individuals. These are also consistently good, e.g. in 2003, it was only at 3,7 per million of all allowances granted that it was registered for non-compliance, i.e. that the prisoner did not show up until the agreed time after leave. It has to be added that most of these prisoners met themselves or were arrested by the police shortly after. There are a number of other fields where statistics show good results in terms of security in prisons and work is constantly under pressure to further improve the standard. Unfortunately, we have also had episodes where prison inmates have committed serious crime. In all these cases, it is examined whether the risk assessments for individual prisoners were adequate. Closer and better cooperation between police and criminal services is therefore necessary. In order to further ensure this cooperation, I am in the process of putting the last hand on new regulations, in the form of a joint circular for criminal services, the police and the prosecution authority on the exchange of information between the agencies. As a result, both police and criminal services can get a better tool against crime, including the organised and networked. As the representative of Storberget has seen in the media, there has also been criticism of the quality of building mass and technical control equipment in some prisons. The extent to which this affects safety can be discussed, particularly when viewed in the context of other control measures. But I can assure the representative of Storberget that an upgrade is in progress in a number of prisons. This happens, among other things: as a result of new plan models and performance indicators, criminal justice has been introduced in my time as the Council of State. In addition, it is worth mentioning that criminal services have started pioneering in the new development of mobile phone blocking equipment and other wireless networks. To be the leader, we were also learning from the problems of other countries in the security work in criminal matters. One example is the very violent escapes in Sweden earlier this year. Based on this, prison preparedness increased in the summer. Because of good cooperation between criminal services and the police, and good and transparent controls in prisons, we have so far avoided similar actions in Norway. This type of cooperation must therefore be further strengthened. Finally, I will conclude by saying that my goal is to have a very good safety, but at the same time that the necessary measures are to be used intelligently. We must avert crime, prevent escapes and secure society, but at the same time we must take proper care of those who demonstrate the ability and will to rehabilitate. Such differentiation in response to prisoners is important in terms of preventing new crime and meeting the will to rehabilitate — but it should not be at the expense of security. And let me underline further: it's a fact that we're still facing new challenges. The challenges we're facing are just like this: when we meet the "stupid guys," we have to look at how we're going to deal with them, while at the same time we're not going to let this happen to the many people who are really acting and want to make up for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e755	I thank you for your answer, and I fully agree with the Minister of Justice. That's the way the statistics are good, but the prom of failure can in itself be serious enough. The lessons from Sweden have shown us this to the full. There are three scales in relation to this with certainty that I will challenge the Minister of Justice on: firstly, the question of technical control equipment, secondly, the question of personnel and, thirdly, the question of multiple search sites to prevent pressure from prisons and prison staff. In particular, it is close to me to address the question of the situation in Oslo prison. I have been there on a visit with our fraction and have been shown the technical control equipment that you have, and the Minister of Justice is probably also thinking about when he in his reply refers to what it has been written about in the media, and which cannot possibly be good enough for such a large and so far also important prison as Oslo prison, Section A, is. In my opinion, both in relation to the personnel and in particular to the technical equipment, there is a wear and tear. My question is: Will the Minister of Justice do something about Oslo prison in terms of technical control equipment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e764	Here's a bunch of ratios that'll be taken up. Firstly, pending technical control equipment, there is a prohibition in situations where there is a high risk of using e.g.: mobile phone, and for both prisoners and employees. So the legislation is strict, and so it will be until we have the technical control equipment in place. And then we've increased the number of settlements. In my time as the Council of State, there have been 320 new places of refuge and additional places of early release, and results have begun to be achieved with reduced pressure on the pay queue. Then there are questions about employees. We have a group of employees in Norwegian prisons who are very well educated and who have a good education compared to many countries. We're gonna be proud of that and we're gonna be happy for that. With regard to the situation in Oslo prison – I myself have been there, I have met both prison management and others – I have specifically asked for a report on both securing a very specific port mentioned in the media, and also on special forms of technical surveillance and control. I'm going to follow this up in close contact with the criminal services, because I'm concerned about these questions, because I, just like the representative, have been in prison. And let me underline: first of all, I met motivated employees, who do a very important and big job in distinguishing between what I would call 'the trick guys' and all the others who aren't that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e777	I fully agree with the Minister of Justice in relation to the job that employees do. But there is frustration in terms of both the safety aspect and the rehabilitation aspect of being so few. With regard to the number of settlements, I believe that perhaps one of the most important things we can do to ensure the safety of Norwegian settlements is to initiate the construction of the new prison in Halden, both because of what it is intended to hold, and in order to ease the pressure on the settlement queues. I see in the draft budget that the Minister of Justice and the Government argue that there will be new assessments on the cost side. This is a question that I think the Minister of Justice should have clarified before the budget was presented, but I will nevertheless follow up, because it affects the safety issue for the overall prison environment in Norway. Are these cost assessments completed with regard to the new planned prison in Halden? Is the Government and the Government willing to set up a race now so that the construction of the Halden prison can be started in the next year, as the Workers' Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e789	First, I note that the representative of Storberget challenges me alternately that I am not human enough in terms of rehabilitation, and alternately criticises me for lack of security. I am trying to take care of both aspects, and I am convinced that the representative also has it as a background. In the case of settlements, we have high-risk departments, for example. on Ringerike, and we have it on Ullersmo. We're using high-risk departments now because it's necessary to do it. In the case of prison places, you have to get the places you can get, quickly, and I have delivered them, among other things. the measures adopted in the current year's budget, in particular: in agreement with the representative’s party. With regard to prison in Halden, it has been my duty, as stated in the revised national budget and also in the budget, to review the estimate of costs. As it grows, I have a responsibility to ensure that it is reviewed and checked. The process around it has been prepared in the budget for next year, and it says that the government will come back to this in the right way. Then get the proper way to be there when we get there, and then the conditions that are otherwise there will be taken up at the Budgetary Procedure in the Stortinge. I'm concerned about both increasing the number of settlements, and I'm concerned about security. And I want to add on behalf of the representative and myself: we are also concerned about rehabilitation for those who have just behaved so that's what we're going to help them with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e802	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Sometimes, there are situations in which public officials do not have the power to prevent undesirable and criminal acts. Then was the case in Bjerkvik last March, where an unstable person with a police card attacked and injured a casually present person. The person feels like a double victim, as he was injured by a non-criminal person. There have been similar cases in the harvest, with a known non-criminal perpetrator. What countermeasures will the Council of State take?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e811	Police generally have a high level of preparedness and good competence to deal with unstable people. However, unexpected situations may arise with unforeseen and undesirable consequences. That the innocent third party is affected by such a situation is of course extra regrettable. On the other hand, there is no evidence that there is a growing tendency for the police to lose control when transporting unstable people. It is part of the police’s everyday life to intervene in situations where unstable persons are involved. Sections 11 to 3 and 11 to 4 of the Police Instructions specify guidelines on the security measures to be taken when the person is transported. This instruction also covers situations where the person transported is mentally unstable, possibly not liable to criminal law. It is the current situation that determines the level of security measures. Therefore, it is not considered relevant to amend the legislation. The police are striving to have good contact and active cooperation with the social and psychiatric auxiliaries, so that assistance can be obtained quickly if the situation so warrants. The Directorate of Police reports that the Bjerkvik case in question, which is referred to in the question, has been investigated by the Special Investigation Agency of the Police. In the state attorney's position in the case, it appears that there was no gross insensibility in the service during the performance of the transport operation in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e824	I thank you for your answer. That gives some interesting ways to follow up. Firstly, the conclusion of SEFO is that there has been no gross insensibility in the service. Then it would have been tempting to challenge the Minister of Justice whether he is satisfied with today's practice and understanding the level of gross insensibility in the service. It's a question that it would be interesting to get an answer to. Another question is whether the Minister of Justice believes it makes sense to continue using police officers for this type of mission, or whether health professionals who may have greater direct professional competence in relation to people who are unstable should be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e833	When it comes to SEFO's assessment, I do not go into such specific matters. But I am pleased that the representative addresses the question. In general, it is a fact that in very many cases the police are facing challenges with people who are mentally unstable and struggling with their mental health. In fact, sometimes the first line service we have in this community in the field of mental health is the police. Policemen have a lot of experience, but there's no doubt that in many contexts there should be reason to have even closer follow-up than what you have today, in terms of support from health professionals. In order to achieve this, I have already started a dialogue with the Ministry of Health this summer and early in the autumn to discuss the cooperation between the Ministry of Health and the justice sector in general regarding access to health professionals with expertise in situations that are challenging for the police in dealing with people with mental illness. There is something I will actively follow up, because the police are in situations where they need such assistance, and I will do my part to make that assistance the best possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e845	I thank you for the answer, which I think sounds good. I am very excited to meet any changes to be made that will serve both the unstable person and those parts of the public service that will assist in such a situation. Nevertheless, I could imagine going further with what the Council said in its first answer. Among other things, he said: that the sections 11 to 3 and 11 to 4 of the Police Instructions provide guidance on how such transport is to be carried out. In March of this year, police officer Elisabeth Kaas in Harstad said that we have no written instructions on how to behave when we assist in the transportation of mentally ill patients. I think it is in contrast to what the Council of State has said, and then my natural question will be: Is it true that Commissioner Kaas is not familiar with the police's instructions in Sections 11-3 and 11-4, or is this a lack of communication and understanding of the type of mission that has been referred to here?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e854	I don't know the statement of Chief Kaas. On the other hand, I have had direct contact with the Oslo police district, which has a number of transport missions for the first time in the case of people with mental disorders that are calm and peaceful, and also a number of missions during the year that are just going on in situations that are very demanding. It is my impression that the police have gained experience in how they are going to handle this, and that some of the challenges are getting enough access to competent health professionals when necessary. The police are committed to ensuring that access. Operational police do it. As constitutionally responsible for the police, I am concerned that there should also be no doubt that the health authorities will extend as far as possible. If there is something that should be unclear within the police – and that is not a question that has been raised to me by the Police Directorate, I am at least not familiar with it – I will of course go in and look at it. With my experience with the police in service – and in addition to the situation from Oslo, I can mention completely concrete situations in the South Trondelag – it is my impression that the police are doing their utmost precisely because they have a practical everyday experience. And this everyday experience uses Norwegian police in a very good way. Supported policemen have a good general background to deal with things, but I'm going to do my job for them, for example. In addition, stable psychiatric nurses also meet, for together they become at least a powerful team when the challenge is most demanding. I perceive that this is the interaction the representative is asking for in their questions to me today. I'll do mine to make it like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e869	I have the following questions for the Minister of the Church: «Approved religious communities receive public support based on membership and with an amount per. member corresponding to what the Norwegian Church receives. Overall, the aid amounts to more than 100 million. kr. The accounts are not required to be audited by the approved auditor. A private school run by a congregation has been cancelled because it was messed up with the economy. Does the Council of State feel that there is a need to require that religious communities receiving state subsidies have audited accounts?"
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e878	I agree entirely with the representative of Rikham that an audit opinion should be required for grants. The Ministry of Culture and the Church sent a proposal on 9 July this year for a change to the regulation on threat societies. The Ministry proposes that the registered or state-authorised auditor certify the printing of the accounts when the State grant is greater than DKK 100000. This is in line with the practice of other grants from the Ministry of Culture and the Church. We aim to ensure that the requirement for audit clearance applies from 1 January 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e887	I thank you for your answer. The answer suggests that the Council of State and I agree that the type of statutory audit for these state funds goes to religious communities is needed. We have the same principle approach. What I'm a little bit more uncertain about is the amount of money. I react immediately to the fact that the Council of State operates here that for amounts less than 100 000 no such type of approval shall be required from an auditor. There are quite a number of religious communities that get from $50,000 and up, for example, even less than $50,000. There is a need to go in and check that the means that go to these religious communities are also used for what it was supposed to be used for. Straight away, as I see it, my first reaction is that the amount of NOK 100,000 is too high. Although the Council of State may indicate that this is common practice for other grants from the Ministry, I would ask her to assess the amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e898	This is a balance between a lot of bureaucracy and a system that should be easy to control without becoming too bureaucratic. But I take the views of the representative with me. Now this is out on the phone, as I said, and we're of course going to review all the recordings that come in the listening round, and come back to it later. I also want to add that the county does not, of course, pay any supplements if the conditions for the supplements are not met – it is also clear. In accordance with the law on trust societies and others, the county council shall not approve these trust societies, but the trust communities may be registered. The registration message shall contain information, including: on knowledge-raising, learning-building, activeness and dissemination. That's what's going on here, and we're going to get back to doing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e909	I want to get back to the amount. I expect that all the prerequisites for approval and so on. I'm okay, there's no problem. But I'm a little surprised when the Council of State argues with bureaucracy, the fear that if we set a lower amount than NOK 100,000, it will create an unnecessary bureaucracy. I don't think we should be so afraid of it. What is important here is that one is sure that the public funds that go to these religious communities go to what they are going to do and are not being abused. Things indicate that we have some examples that the funds have been misused, and that was for less than NOK 100,000. We can't have it that way. That's why it's awfully important that we have a system that makes both us politicians and the community themselves, the ordinary members, feel secure that these funds go to what they're supposed to do. I still believe that the amount is too high, and that we should set a lower amount. But we get the consultation round, and then we see what the result is.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e918	I don't currently have an overview of the number of debts that are below or above NOK 100,000 of those that are being supported today. I would also like to add that we have seen a work going on in relation to the registration of members, so that one cannot have double members. We know that some trust societies have registered more members than they really have. We have a work going on that will clean up the whole system. I hope that we will all come up with a clean and manageable system that will allow these funds to go to what they are going to do, as the representative Rikvam is also busy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e929	My question is as follows: «The Church, Education and Research Committee has set the provisional deadline for submission to Ot.prp for 8 February 2005. No 79 About the Law of Universities and Universities. [[2003-2004]] Nevertheless, the Ministry of Education and Research, in its letter of 8 October 2004 to universities and higher education institutions, has informed about the follow-up to the law. The letter advances the final result and recommends institutions to start adapting to a law that has not been passed. Will the Council of State ensure that the letter is immediately withdrawn and that the Ministry of Education and Research awaits the treatment of the Storting and final decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e938	The government promoted Ot.prp. No 79 for 2003-2004 with proposals for a new Law on Universities and Higher Education for the United Kingdom on 8 June 2004. The proposal implies, if adopted, the establishment of a common law for State and private universities and colleges to replace the current two laws. The proposal introduces substantial changes in the overall regulation of higher education. The proposal for a common law is a follow-up to the Stortingen's unanimous decision in the examination of St.meld. No 27 for 2000-2001. During the period following the Government's submission to the Stortinget, the Ministry has received enquiries from the Board of Universities and Universities and individual institutions on how to deal with the follow-up to the Stortinget's treatment of the bill. Among other things, the term of office of the Boards of State universities and colleges expires on 31 July 2005. For practical reasons, these institutions need to set up a process to get new governance in place until that time. The holding of internal elections, the appointment of external directors and the recruitment of the principal are tasks that normally take a long time to be carried out. The Ministry was therefore asked, as far as possible, to clarify the practical issues involved. On this basis, on 8 October 2004, the Ministry sent out an information letter to the institutions concerned explaining the further examination of the legislative proposal. The letter explains the planned examination of the proposal by the Storting and what will normally be the further process after the Storting process. New legislation, which the Stortinget has asked for, will – whatever material content – mean that institutions will have a completely new formal framework to deal with. This implies that a number of regulations and other legislation are likely to have to be adjusted after the treatment of the Storting, and there will be specific issues that need to be considered in relation to any transitional arrangements. The Ministry therefore considered that it was reasonable to inform the institutions about this and to prepare them for the fact that after the treatment of the Storting, a major effort would most likely have to be made to revise the legislation under the law. In the letter, the Ministry made explicit reservations that the proposal was under consideration in Stortinget. The Ministry further clarified that any processes undertaken by the individual institution must take this into account. The Ministry thus considered it important to provide this information now, also in order to ensure that no changes were introduced in the institutions that prejudge the treatment of the Stortinge. To the extent that the letter is suitable for leaving the impression that the department presupposes the outcome of Storting's treatment, I would like to stress that this was not my intention with the letter. To clarify this further, I would like to send the institutions a separate letter stressing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e951	I thank you for your answer. Of course, I know the background and the order for the law, the content as well. The main point of the question is how this is perceived in the sector, and not least how it can be perceived by the Scientific Committee, which has actually proposed legislation for consideration. I am pleased with the last part of the Council of State's response. I also want to remember the back cover in this case. The form of association was also dealt with by the sample, which has produced the report on the basis of which it was made. The nature of the relationship between the State institutions was strongly disputed. The Council of State chose to go to the unusual step of declaring that she did not continue the proposal to change the form of association, through a chronicle in the Evening Post, to create some peace in a very intriguing sector. Against this background, the question of whether the Council of State has not understood that this comprehensive letter has been perceived as a signal of advance of Storting's treatment and a signal of control rather than a signal of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e960	As I said in my first answer, it has not been our intention to give any indication of the outcome of Storting's treatment. I have full respect for the fact that this matter is in Stortinget and will undergo a treatment, and that we do not know the outcome of it. When it comes to sending out this type of information letter at such a stage in the process, I would just like to say that it is not entirely unusual – it also happened in the context of the treatment of the University and Higher Education Act in 2002. I have of course re-examined the letter after this matter came up, and I see that the department at least a dozen times in the letter makes reservations. I still stand by what was my conclusion in my first answer, that to the extent that this letter has been suitable for leaving the impression of something else, I will try to correct it and clarify what has been my intention, by sending the institutions a new letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e967	It is such that, at the end of the letter from the Department, it is said: The Ministry aims to ensure that new law can come into force from 1 August 2005. The proposal proposes that the entry into force and transitional provisions be laid down by the King. However, on the basis of the answer that has now been given, I am pleased that the Council of State in this way determines that it is up to the Committee and finally to the consideration of the Grand Duchy to determine both the entry into force and any transitional provisions. That's the important point of the whole question; that in this way and through the answer from the Council of State, we are told that this is the case, and that those who want to wait for the final result can safely do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e974	I confirm that it is the Storting that determines. I'm not going to be more impatient than I'm allowed to be, according to the Storting. If I appear a little impatient, I may have learned something from the representative Blackevik, who would have preferred to see this law and this proposal promoted already in the first half of 2003. We did not, but now I am looking forward to a solid treatment in Stortinget, and then we implement it when the Stortinget believes it makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e982	I allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Education and Research: ‘The Directorate-General for Education has approved an application from the Municipality of Oslo for a voluntary three-year trial of optional written lateral training. How will the Council of State technically justify such an extensive experiment, covering half of all the elephants in the secondary schools in Oslo, in relation to the objective of continuing compulsory written secondary education in the school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e991	I think it's important to work all the time to improve the quality of Norwegian school and to develop school, so that it is able to meet the new challenges of societal development. One way to develop school is by experimentation. This principle was incorporated by Stortinget when it adopted the experimental home in § 1-4 of the Training Act. There are now a number of trials in Norwegian schools, where individual schools test out models that they themselves find sensible. The applicant is the school owner and the responsibility for assessing whether to comply or reject applications has been added to the Directorate of Education. The general rule is that trials are accepted if there is a broad local consensus on the experiment and it does not prevent students from getting a full diploma. The test in the Municipality of Oslo is based on a decision of the City Council on 14 April 2004. Oslo Municipality has developed a three-year action plan for literacy and language training in Oslo School, focusing on adapted training and focusing widely on strengthening literacy skills. The attempt to achieve optional side objectives is integrated into this action plan. The main reason for the experiment by the Municipality of Oslo is the high proportion of students with a minority language background in Oslo, which in 2003 was almost 30 pst. The experiment also addresses key challenges for Norwegian school related to declining literacy skills and to an increasing proportion of students with a minority language background, who, NB, systematically have fewer professional outcomes than the majority. In the case of diplomas and admission to higher education, the test students will be in the same group as, among others, students in Norwegian as second language. They are exempted from written side-by-side training and receive a non-characteristic diploma in Norwegian language. The certificate is accepted upon application for higher education. Each student and supervisor shall choose whether to participate in the experiment. In St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning, it is recognised that there is still to be mandatory training in written cross-sectional objectives and that there is a need to focus on systematic research and development in order to improve training. Work shall focus on the content, organisation and evaluation of the subject in order to promote the motivation of pupils and teachers and to enhance their competence in this area. The Stortinget has joined in. In this work, I believe that there is a need for more knowledge about the relationship between the school's secondary education and the literacy skills of Norwegian students. I have noticed that the experiment in Oslo will be evaluated by skilled trade unions, so that experience from the experiment with optional side goals in Oslo can be one of several contributions in the further work on the development of the Norwegian profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1002	I want to go into the professional foundation. It turns out that all of the trade unions that are asked about this matter, including this one. The University of Oslo and the Hochskulen in Oslo, have said that the experiment is unprofessional, and therefore they will not be involved in the experiment. They indicate that the scheme does not meet the basic scientific testing requirements. The question then arises: What kind of management has the application received in the Directorate of Education, and what kind of quality control does it have in such cases? In June of this year, the Storting decided to introduce national tests in reading and writing, both in terms of their main objectives and in terms of page targets. There was part of the cross-measure agreement between the Labour Party and the Government Party. When I look at the submission to the 2005 State Budget, it seems to me that national testing funds have been set up only in the main objectives. My question to the Council of State will be: Will the Council of State follow the decision on national tests, both in terms of main objectives and in terms of cross-cutting measures, and is it also seen in terms of means for the cross-cutting tests?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1013	It seems to me that these were a lot of questions that they could be answered in full within 1 minute. When it comes to trials, the Stortinget has decided that we should have a system of testing in Norwegian school, and that there should be a liberal attitude to it, because it can contribute to quality development. For the time being it is going on approx. 500 trials in Norwegian school, and from a very large number of those that have been completed, we have gained very good knowledge. They're actually laying the foundation for what's now becoming permanent school policy. The task of assessing these test applications and deciding on them, as well as their professional treatment, has been delegated to the Directorate of Education. It is the directorate that has given reasons for its treatment and that they collectively find that they can accept this attempt on certain premises. One of these premises is that students should read a lot of new Norwegian, and that knowledge of language history and novel authorship should be included in the basis of the position character for both Norwegian and Norwegian oral. In addition, they have provided that the experiment is followed up and evaluated in research. This must be followed up by the Directorate and the Municipality of Oslo. There is nothing I follow up by reading newspapers about individual researchers' statements. This is a premise for the trial followed by the directorate and the municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1022	I thank you for your answer. The base of the lateral target arrangement is an equation between the new Norwegian and Bokmål dimensions. All shall have knowledge of both target forms. I can't understand how an exemption from the side measure can create a better development in the subject. Does not the Council of State here nevertheless see a discrepancy between what the Storting has said about the lateral dimension as a value and as part of common linguistic knowledge, and the exemption in Oslo? Can the Council of State - this is an important question - guarantee that it will not open up any further exemptions from side-by-side targets over the years of the Oslo experiment, as the Director of Education Directorate, Petter Skarheim, has said?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1031	This experiment is not about the exemption from lateral dimensions. This is an experiment with lateral dimensions which includes exemptions from written lateral dimensions. That's what this is about. One of the premises for this experiment is that there should be more lateral dimension, in this case new Norse, in other ways of teaching. It is true that the Director of the Directorate of Education said in connection with this decision: ‘But any other test involving exemption from written lateral target training should wait until this evaluation is completed’. – that's the one from the Municipality of Oslo. I do not intend to intervene in this, as I have not done in dealing with this attempt in the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1051	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘Skjærgårdsskole at Fevik in Grimstad is at risk of losing the permit for continuing schooling. In this case, this is very regrettable, because the school maintains both freedom of choice and diversity and is an adequate offer in relation to public schools. In this way, the nursery school represents an important and good alternative for the pupils and parents who have chosen to use this school on the basis of both values and other preferences. What can be done to ensure the continued operation of the Archipelago School in 2005 and beyond?’ I'm excited about the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1062	An approval under the Law may be withdrawn in the event of a qualitative breach of the requirements of the Law on Secondary Education, regulations based on the Law on Secondary Education or the prerequisites for recognition. This follows from § 7-2. The Authority shall, inter alia,: to withdraw an approval under the law of high school, I have, as provided in St.prp. No 65 for 2002-2003, delegated to the Directorate of Education. The decision to withdraw approval under the law on upper secondary education is a single decision which may be appealed to the Ministry of Education and Research. I am aware that the Education Directorate has taken decisions on, among other things. withdrawing the approval of the archipelago school with effect from 1 January 2005. In a letter dated 28 October from the Education Directorate of the School of Schürgårdsskolan on ‘Notice of action under the Law of Free Schools, etc.’, the school is informed that the period of appeal is three weeks from receipt of the letter. At least the Ministry of Education and Research does not have per year. now received a complaint against the decision of the cemetery school. If the Schjörgårdsskole accuses the decision and the Education Directorate does not comply with the complaint, it shall send the complaint and other documents in the matter to the Ministry of Education and Research. As a Board of Appeal, the Ministry of Education and Research may reject or accede to the complaint. This follows from Sections 33 and 34 of the Administrative Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1071	I thank the Council of State for the answer and note it. Let me begin by stressing that I am concerned with ensuring schools like the Archipelago School continue to operate, because I see it as important to create more freedom of choice and more diversity in Norwegian school as well as to ensure parents and students' right to choose schools other than just public schools. Based on what has actually happened in this case, I certainly believe that it is too dramatic and too strict a reaction if the school should lose its right to continued operation. So, according to the law of free school, the ministry can order that schools deal with critical issues. So I can't see that the Khargård School has had a good chance and a good time to rectify the conditions that the Education Directorate refers to. Doesn't the nursery school just have a reasonable demand to get the opportunity to rectify the conditions that have been identified before going to such a dramatic step as wanting to quit school?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1082	I notice this as an opinion. For me, it is important that we relate to laws and regulations both in terms of substance content and in terms of treatment procedures. The Education Directorate has come to the conclusion that there are significant breaches of the law, regulations and conditions under which they are authorised and that is the background to their decision. However, since the Ministry of Education is the Board of Appeal – if it actually does, we will see – I do not find it natural to comment further on this matter until a final decision in the case is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1087	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Let me make it clear that both the school administration, the parents and the teachers are 100 pst. is set to clean up the currently imposed directives. Another important consideration is the close to 50 students who go to school and who thrive there. Let me briefly get quotes from an e-mail that a few minutes ago appeared on my screen from parents who have their children at the cemetery school: 'Just want to say thank you for your commitment to the Archdiocese! We appreciate it very much! We have three of our children at school. They are huge and have the best prerequisites for a good learning in small classes with engaged and professionally qualified teachers. They experience security and cohesion in everyday life For us parents, it means so much that the school cooperates with us in the Christian values that despite all our country is built on. [[and despite the media drive that has been...]] The freedom to choose what we think is best for our children, that parental right we are willing to fight for. Thank you in the Progress Party, who also believe that freedom of choice is important and will fight for it! It's an important thing! Thank you again!" I beg the Council of State to note the words that I now referred to from Maylin Nyberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1101	I am sure that e-mail is sincere, but it is with respect not to report this we are discussing. What this government has proposed, and has been adopted, is a free school reform in Norway that is just focusing on freedom of choice. There's nothing to be ashamed of. But like the Progress Party, we are subject to law and order, and the law of free school is, in principle, a grant law, where it is possible to obtain large grants from Community funds, provided that certain premises and criteria are met. That's the law we're trying to follow to the best of our ability. More on this matter, I do not think it is right to say, since the department is a potential complaint body.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1109	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘It has been widely agreed that the most plagued by king crabs as a by-catch are those who will participate in the capture of king crabs in the first row. In particular, this has been pointed out in the case of the smaller vessels, which cannot escape the most heavily burdened royal crab fields. Now it turns out that the new legislation totally excludes the smallest fjord boats from crab fishing from Porsangs and eastwards. What will the Council of State do to ensure that fjord fish in these areas participate in crab fisheries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1123	The King crab has gone from being a hated resource along the Finnmark coast to becoming a desirable resource that generates huge revenues for those who are allowed to capture it. This year's catch has been estimated at approx. 62 million. kr in first-hand sales. In addition, valuable crabs have been taken west of 26o. Since the start of the regulated commercial catch in 2002, we have stressed that those particularly affected by the disadvantages of crabs are to be compensated by participating in the lucrative capture of crabs. In particular, there have been smaller vessels fishing for cod with nets and lines and fishing for roaches. The conditions for access to the regulated east fishing zone of 62o reflect this. The pressure is now great for more people to get involved in crab fishing as it is so profitable. Since 2002, the qualification has been based on a certain quantity of cod or rays caught in the catchment area and a length limit related to vessels between 21 metres and a lower limit of 8 metres in 2002, which was reduced to 7 metres in 2003 and a further reduction to 6 metres in 2004. So far, 246 vessels of the 260 that have been admitted east of 26o have participated. A further justification for limiting fishing is the safety aspects of small boats and the avoidance of overcapacity, which will be a structural problem if and when the crab population goes down and the quotas need to be reduced. An additional justification for a lower vessel limit has been given for the quality of the catch to be delivered. The industry has laboriously built up the royal crab as a brand, and it imposes strict requirements on the quality of the catch, which in turn requires good treatment on board, which in turn requires sufficient space for the ponds and treatment of the catch. Of course, as qualification requirements have been set for participation and there is a great deal of interest in participation, some will fall outside the qualification criteria. For the last three years we have had commercial fishing, we have shown flexibility by the department and gained experience that has led to changes in qualification requirements. In the autumn, as the representative Arnesen also points out, demands have been made to remove completely the lower limit of length. Other criteria are also required to be changed by several teams. Since the quotas for this year have been fixed and the total quota allocated to the vessels, I do not see it appropriate to change the allocation during the season of the year. This year there are otherwise 209 300 crabs of the year's quota of 270,000. However, I have said, at the latest during the Sameting meeting last month, that to next year's regulations we will send questions about removing the lower length limit at the consultation when determining the criteria for participation in 2006 fisheries. However, I would like to point out – because some people believe that crab quotas can be allocated without notice that they are getting smaller – that it is mathematically obvious that with the same total quota or with a lower total quota and a larger number of vessels that are entering, the quota will necessarily have to go down into this attractive fishing, which will once again go beyond the profitability of those who have been the most plagued.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1153	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although there were many reservations about the possibilities ahead of me for the group that I am addressing on this question. It might seem that you're not particularly happy to get the least into this fish. Small scale operations seem not to be so important in this context. As far as safety is concerned, it is probably the case that the boats in question are engaged in other types of fishing and have been operating with it for many years, and the safety should not be worse to ensure with this crab fishing than with other fish. The council refers to what he has said in the Sameting, that it is precisely they with the biggest problems with the royal crab that are going to have a compensation. Can you expect these interests to be safeguarded in the next round, so that those who run small and in combination with other industries get this compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1162	I must strongly reject the fact that it should be such that the small scale is not wanted in this fishing. First of all, I have opened the way for commercial fishing. I have opened up a free fishing west of 26°, and we have just prioritised the small boats, the ones that have been the most plagued. It is not easy to claim that small-scale and small-scale boats are not given priority. That's exactly what we've done, and I had faith that the representative Arnesen was aware of when he first asked the question. When it is then stated that it is surprising that boats less than 6 metres with large pond handling are more at risk than if they are fishing with nets or juxtaposition, or line for that matter, it may be evidence of a lack of knowledge of the fishing activities that are taking place. But they've assessed it so that there's a greater risk associated with it. At the same time, I have opened every year to lower the length limit. Once again, we show that we want to give priority to the smallest boats. I have said that for next year's regulations, which apply to 2006-fishing, we will send out to consult and even hear the industry when it comes to opening up even more boats. But the pressure is great for other boats too to get into this fishing. This will mean that revenue will fall, and it will have consequences for the overall objective, namely that those who have been the most afflicted will also benefit from it once this has become a resource. But I think it's interesting that many of those who have criticized me and wanted the crab to have been wiped out, now would like to have a commercial fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1169	That criticism has not come from this team, at least. It is said that in this picture with the small vessels inside the fjords one must also look at the population perspective and what goes on in the combined industries, which go on housing and such things. I would like to ask: will this count into such an assessment to get these small-scale fishermen into this important fishery?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1176	Bringing the indigenous problem into this context is even less topical. The general management of fish resources has not been taken into account, although, in some cases, priority has been given to the settlement of highly Sami settlements. More than that, it is an endangered species with no more than 30–40 years of history, and it has been commercial fishing for three years. It is not likely that a significant proportion of those engaged in this fishing are fjord fishermen who will also be able to define themselves as part of the indigenous population, the Sami population of Finnmark, but there has been no criterion in itself. Whenever we change the length limit of the vessels, as we have done in both 2003 and 2004, we have established completely different criteria. It would be wrong to base an original population perspective on the length of the boats. So I don't see the whole context of the question that the representative Arnesen is going to raise here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1187	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs: ‘From 1 January 2004, the system of local fisheries inspectors has fallen and the oversight has to be left to Coast Guard/State Fisheries Oversight. Norway’s highest density of leisure homes is found along the Skagerrak coast. It has been raised beyond doubt that there is widespread illegal fishing for lobster in the summer months, when the lobster is at peace. Catches are carried out by extensive use of yarns, teasing and rushing, as well as diving. Is not the state council so concerned about the lobster population along the Skagerrak coast that action should be considered?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1196	The lobster is a desirable delicacy and, unfortunately, in its entire range, the claim of illegal catches is no news. That, of course, gives cause for concern. That is why we have also taken action in this way. As regards recorded catches, we find that lobster stocks have fallen in recent years, with a bottom-note in 1992. The top was as far back as 1945. In the following years from 1992 onwards, the registration has shown that there has been a reasonably stable level without clear indications of further negative development of the population. We cannot at all accept the illegal capture of lobsters, and we demand from recreational fishermen and professional fishermen in this area the same as we demand from everyone else, that they comply with the catch limits we impose in consultation with the marine scientists. In recent years, fisheries management has had increased attention to resource control in general. Effective mechanisms that provide better control and more for public money use have been important guiding principles for this work. We have chosen to withdraw from the system of temporary employment of local supervisors for the benefit of full-time inspectors in the Directorate of Fisheries. Full-time inspectors, by virtue of their experience and powers, will be able to carry out this task in a good and cost-effective manner. A number of different public services along the south coast, such as: salmon surveillance, archipelago services, lighthouse services, etc. are currently carrying out various forms of surveillance or control along the coast or at sea. Fisheries authorities will now take the initiative to look at the possibilities of coordinating this activity to a greater extent, so that consideration of enhanced resource control, including control of lobster harvesting, can also be ensured to a greater extent than at present. An increased use of the Fisheries Directorate’s vessel ‘Munin’ on the south coast during the summer months shall also be included in this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1209	I thank the Minister for the answer, and am at least happy that he shares some of my concerns. I think that on the Skagerrak coast, with hundreds of fjords, cuttings and hollows, the Coast Guard is never to be seen. The lack of fisheries supervision is one of the concerns of all local fishing teams on the Skagerrak coast. I hope that the Minister for Fisheries – and the Minister for Coastal Affairs, perhaps not least – will see that the Skagerrak coast is the most stressful coastal stretch in Norway. There are major conflicts of interest between leisure and industry, and only to mention there are 250000 registered recreational craft in this area. Control of the regulation on fisheries should then be an important task. Local fisheries supervision was a rather cheap system, which worked well. We never think we received any good answer as to why the supervision was terminated. Could it possibly be money that did it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1218	In the year that is about to ebb out, I have attended meetings on both sides of the Oslo Earth with fishermen, and have experienced the concern of the recreational fishing and the activity that is taking place along the south coast and the Eastfold coast. So I share the concern. But that is also why we are taking action to strengthen control within the resources that are in place. Better control, we expect to achieve through the measures I mentioned here. Then it's asking to extend the local oversight. But we can see, as is now claimed by the questioner, that there is widespread illegal fishing. So this has happened while we had the local supervision. In other words, it has proved not to be good enough. That is why we are now making changes to improve the supervision of well-qualified inspectors. I am a little surprised that, on the one hand, concerns are expressed about the illegalities allegedly taking place, while at the same time wanting to continue a system that has not revealed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1225	The messages that at least I receive, from among others. The SÖR fishing team suggests that illegal conditions now prevail on this important coastal stretch in Norway, and that local fisheries surveillance was a good counter-measure against this. I now perceive the minister so that he wants to look at the matter. I will see it as positive, sail if I get no promise that local fisheries supervision will be set up again. However, looking at coordination in all the areas that the Minister has now mentioned in his response, in order to improve supervision, is my strong call.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1232	I'm sure the questioner and I have a common desire to get this under control. However, when it is said that there are ‘lawless conditions’ and at the same time they are asked to continue the regime that has in a way ‘allowed’ such developments, there will be no consistency between instruments and objectives. I believe that the measures we are now taking should be better than what has been. As I said, we have a common desire, the asker and I, both to preserve the lobster and to preserve coastal activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1240	«Norges Fiskeryhögskole, according to NRK Troms, has come to the conclusion that the king crab also spreads by crabs floating in the upper layers of water at high speed. ‘ – I almost see it for myself –’. It is claimed that crabs can spread to Bjørnøya and Spitsbergen in the course of a summer. This means that it will not be possible to stop the royal crab at a western border, as the Government has foreseen. What will the Council of State do with regard to this new information obtained?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1247	Listening to the representative Enoch's description of the larval movements was almost like listening to lyricism! But in order to answer what is being asked, the School of Fisheries has done computer simulations where calculations have been made of the possible spread of royal cancer. In the simulation model, it is introduced that eggs hatch on the Finnmark coast, that larvae are pelagic, and that they will thus operate in the water masses. Power conditions have been introduced into the model, and it has been found that royal crabs are likely to spread with the streams to Bjørnøya and Spitsbergen. Such computer simulations are important works to identify areas in which one should continue to work. The simulations show that larvae can spread with the ocean currents, and a natural follow-up of the results is that the results of the simulation are being verified. If the simulation showed that the larvae cannot spread with the ocean currents, it would not be appropriate to use resources on such prey. However, there are no field observations that suggest that the royal crab is spread by large distances of larvae with the ocean currents. The marine research institute can say with great certainty that the crabs so far observed west of 26o Ø have crawled there on their own or are the result of illegal release. In order for the larvae to grow up, they must land on relatively shallow water and field work has not yet been carried out to show whether the larvae will be able to reach Bjørnøya or Spitsbergen. The researchers know too little about the behaviour of royal crabs in our waters, and the simulations carried out by Norway's fishing high school are an important first step towards getting better knowledge of the royal crab population. That's why we have also prioritised royal cancer research and used our own resources in recent years. The results of the simulations are interesting, and they may prove to be very useful, but there is still a lot of work to be done before any conclusion can be drawn. The results have to be verified successfully, so that we can check if the map matches the terrain. I will follow the ongoing research work on royal crabs carefully, and we have set our own crab quotas for this work as well. Until any new information is available, the measures taken to prevent dispersal westward from 26 o Ø will be continued, i.e. the free fishing east of 26 o Ø. I can also state that, on 27 October, reporting procedures were in place for the capture of king crabs west of 26o Ø. The report to be sent to the Regional Office of the Directorate of Fisheries in Finnmark shall provide information on the number of king crabs caught in a direct fishing or by-catch, including dead king crabs thrown out, as well as the position and gear. I also want to add that there is a significant fishing going on now west of 26 o Ø, and useful information in the research on the royal crab can be harvested by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1270	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am quite convinced that there is every reason here, too, to establish a precautionary principle in relation to the spread of the royal crab, so that at some point one does not face something that could be described as an ecological disaster if the royal crab spreads. The fact that there is now a significant fish also to the west of 26° Ø indicates that the king crab spreads further westwards, and when the researchers say that it is likely that the crab can spread even in case of crab leaves, we are faced with a situation that shows that the proposal that SV has promoted, and that the Senter Party has supported, to regard the crab as an undesirablely introduced species, should perhaps have followed up in a different way. But at what time and by what means will the Minister for Fisheries intensify fishing if it turns out that the research sticks indicate that the researchers are right in their assumptions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1277	It is probably possible that you should have handled the royal crab that introduced the species in a different way from what has been done. The representative of the Enox has been in government and has managed it in the way that I and this government have continued it, that is, that we should have a commercial catch based on the recommendations of the researchers east of 26 o Ø. Then we have opened up to limit the spread west of 26 o Ø, but the foremost scientist, the Sundet, the Marine Research and Fisheries Research, says in the evening post a few days ago that there is no reason to believe that one could eradicate the royal crab. But it's an extermination fish we've opened up to, so that's how to limit the spread. It's per. today taken approx. 22,000 crabs west of the border. It shows that there is a significant spread. The size of it varies, but Russian researchers, who know more about introduced species than we do from the experience we have in Norway, at the same time believe to be able to demonstrate that the royal crab will grow to a certain level, and the population will fall. In this case it will have consequences for Norwegian fishing in the Norwegian sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1282	It must be acknowledged that the relationship with Russia has been problematic in dealing with the royal crab as an undesirable species. But also from that team one has over time realized that the royal crab must be managed differently from it when I was put in government and the problem was not very close to what it is today. So the attitude from the Russian side has also changed along the way. It's probably also true that the population is going to grow to a certain level and then decrease – at least we can hope so. However, this suggests that a limit has been reached on the extent of the basis for growth, which will in turn affect the sea areas in which the king crab is located, and thus also the feed base for important species of fish for the nation. It's probably as far as it's possible to get in this round, but it's obvious that when the king crab now spreads also west of 26 o'clock, we have completely different kinds of ocean currents, which bring larvae and king crabs faster up against the vulnerable areas of the Barents Sea, which, in turn, can lead to new destruction, which we don't know today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1291	I am pleased that the representative, Mr Enoxen, agrees with me that we must manage the royal crab differently from other populations that we share with Russia. That's why we pressed and last year got accepted from Russia so that we can manage the king crab as a national resource west of 26 o'clock, while on the east side you have to manage it together with Russia. It's a whole new principle, for which we haven't had an impact on other species – fortunately, I kept saying, because common stocks should be managed together. But just the threat and lack of knowledge of an introduced species have made it necessary to launch an eradication fish. According to Sundet, eradication is not possible, but with an exclusion to now of 22,000 crabs, we must be allowed to believe that it at least contributes to limiting the spread and growth. But we have to admit, here's a lot we don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1300	«At Årum in Fredrikstad, residents want a power line laid on the ground. At a meeting with the residents on 18 October this year, the Kreftregister's manager, Frøydis Langmark, said that, according to Fredrikstad Blad on 19 October, air travel across this residential area is far from optimal in relation to the leading principle of goods. She also said that as a woman, mother and grandmother she believes one cancer is one too much. Does this mean that the professional authorities will now change their recommendation to the ministry and propose that the high-spent line through the construction of Årum be put on the ground?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1307	Aspects of the power line in Årum in Fredrikstad have previously been mentioned in answers from the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for Health to question No. 874, 875 and 913 for written reply. The background to the attention given to this matter is that in May this year the Cancer Registry published a study that concludes with an increased risk of breast cancer in women who have lived near high-voltage lines for a long time. At the request of the former Ministry of Health, the State Radiation Protection Authority has assessed this research study and concluded that one research study does not provide sufficient basis for changing current administrative practices. However, it supports continued prudence in relation to new construction projects and concessions for the construction of new high-voltage lines or the upgrading of existing lines. Pending clearer scientific data, State radiation protection recommends a continued precautionary approach to new construction. Following the conclusion of the Radiation Protection Agency, the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Oil and Energy have asked the State's Radiation Protection Agency to establish and lead a working group with a view to specifying and deepening this management strategy. Taking into account that people in Årum experienced an unnaturally high incidence of cancer among residents near the power line, the former Ministry of Health commissioned the Register of Cancer to plan and implement an information system for the population in Årum. This is the meeting that Svein Roald Hansen refers to in his question. At the meeting representatives from the Kreftregisteret, from the State Steel Defence Agency, from the Municipal Health Service in Fredrikstad and approx. 50 representatives of the population in the area. The cancer registry informed me in a written report that both the two subjects at this meeting clearly stated that they had no basis to believe that there was a link between the cancer cases in the area and the power line. In view of the size, gender and age composition of the population, the Register of Cancer considers that the incidence of cancer in the area concerned cannot be considered to be abnormally high. The Ministry of Health and Welfare awaits a final report from the Register of Cancer with a detailed analysis of the cancer cases in question in relation to the registration and analyses of cancer incidence that are ongoing in the Register of Cancer. As Minister of Health and Health, I emphasise that the policies pursued are based on sound, professional advice. As I have explained, the professional authorities have not provided any basis for changing current administrative practices. With regard to issues relating to the planning and location of power lines, I would like to point out that it is the responsibility of the oil and energy minister. The Minister for Oil and Energy has informed that the current management strategy, as stated in NOU 1995:20 and St.prp. No 65 for 1997-1998, was used as a basis for energy authorities to deal with the Årum case, as were other power lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1322	I am pleased that the Kreftregister is conducting studies at Årum, and that the State Radiation Protection is running a working group that is reviewing administrative practices with a view to deepening and concreteising. But when, after the breast cancer study, the State Radiation Protection Authority recommends a continued precautionary strategy, and when the Director of the Cancer Registry said that in this case air travel is far from optimal in relation to a leading var strategy, I would ask: does the Council not see it as the Director of the Cancer Register says that in this case air travel is not in line with what the State Radiation Protection Service recommends, namely a precautionary strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1327	I can at least say to the representative Hansen that I was a little pushy in the chair when I saw the newscast and heard the director of the Cancer Register comment both on a scientifically based basis and as a mother and grandmother. It's clear that in those cases where there's a distance between these statements, it might seem problematic. I have asked myself and received a letter from Director Langmark about this, and from that I will quote: «Despite my no «as mother and grandmother», the scientifically considered weak association between electromagnetic fields and cancer was constantly clarified, both by me and by Aage Andersen and Tore Tynes. But I didn't get involved, despite thin statistics, in pulling the shoulder of the turmoil."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1335	Then I just hope that the review that is now taking place, and also the follow-up to the alarming study that shows more cases of breast cancer among women living close to high-voltage lines, than among those living farther away, will lead to intensification of the precautionary principle, lowering the threshold for using backbones through residential areas, and also, in the light of the attention and debate that have taken place around this particular case, being prepared to review the air stretch through this area if the conclusion is to be reinforced, the precautionary principle. I know that this is under the responsibility of another State Council, but I still allow myself to express a hope that the matter will be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1340	As the representative says, the very formal thing is to give permission and not to give permission, under the oil and energy minister, but I have a constitutional responsibility for the State Radiation Protection and the Cancer Register, which are the two professional bodies used in this kind of issue. Although it is the Ministry of Health and Health that recommends to the Ministry of Oil and Energy in these kinds of cases, it is more or less like a mailbox for our two professional establishments. If there are indications in the studies we are now doing in this area that support the fact that there is reason to place even greater emphasis on a precautionary principle and action, it is clear that this must be communicated to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which is the Ministry of Permit. So from the Ministry of Health and Health we are prepared, anytime, when we have a different scientific basis than that per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1350	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘This year new rules have been put in place to cover food expenditure. This has led to some children with congenital metabolic disorders falling out of the social welfare system under the Social Security Act §5-14. For some, special food costs NOK 40000 per person. month(s) Although the coverage is 90 pst., 4000 kroner is going to be a heavy load for them. This does not concern many children, but without the special diet, some will die and some will be mentally retarded or physically disabled, according to the experts. What can be done to help these children?"
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1359	From 1 September 2004, a system of price regulation of foods for special medical purposes, the so-called dietary foods, is in place. The necessary amendment – new Section 3a of the Blue Recipe Regulation – was adopted in August 2004 and brings together the previously dispersed reimbursement provisions for foods for special medical purposes in a common reimbursement scheme. The Ministry of Social Security has made it known that some patients with metabolic diseases who have previously received reimbursement for such foods by prescription Section 2 do not meet the criteria for reimbursement under the new regulation. The consequence is that patients have to seek contributions to cover expenditure through the CRS, and thus, as the representative Nesvik points out in his question, they are given a higher proportion than before. However, it was a clear prerequisite for the new reimbursement scheme for patients to receive the same offer as before the amendment. Therefore, reimbursement shall be granted for such food for patients with metabolic disease. This implies that the regulation should be interpreted more extensively, i.e. are interpreted in the light of the fact that these patients were intended to be covered by the reimbursement scheme when the wording was proposed. The Ministry has already asked the Rikstrygdeverket to make the necessary changes in the circulars to the Swedish Social Security Act § 5-14 in accordance with this. The Ministry has also asked the Rikstrygdeverket to inform all the actors involved about this change, which will be retroactive until 1 September 2004. I therefore expect a quick solution for the patients mentioned by the representative in his question. Furthermore, for the sake of order, a change in the prescription section 3a will be made to clarify that metabolic diseases are covered by the regulation. The Swedish Works Agency is entrusted with the task of drawing up proposals for such a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1372	My follow-up is simply as follows: On behalf of these children, I thank the Minister of Health and Health for having addressed this matter after it came up, and congratulated him for the work he has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1377	Does the Council of State want a comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1380	It seems superfluous, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1389	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘A SintEF report on 3 November 2004 shows that 3 500 young and mentally ill children are unsolicited in Central Norway. Director of Psychiatry, Thoresen, confirms that they're behind. In many regions, this work is well under way, but in central Norway, it is followed. The Social and Health Directorate confirms that Mid-Norway has been located since the start of the escalation plan. The crews in the region are also poor, according to the Sintef report. What will the Council of State do to improve the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1398	In the beginning, I want to say something about these numbers. After the psychiatry escalation plan is completed, we need an offer of 5 pst. by the group of children and young people. For Health Mid-Norway, this means that in 2008 we will have offers for 7,730 children and young people. Today in Health Mid-Norway we have an offer for 2.7 pst. by the group of children and young people, corresponding to an offer for 4 140 children and young people. The difference between these figures is in excess of 3,500, which is presented in the Address Paper heading as the number of young people without treatment in Health Mid-Norway. This is the objective of the dimensioning of service provision in relation to population size and should not be understood as the actual number of children and young people on the waiting list. There are 464 children and young people on the waiting lists for Health Mid-Norway per year. 31 August this year. So it's not like there's 3 500 waiting lists in Health Mid-Norway. The waiting time for child and youth psychiatry in Health Middle Norway is also reduced from approx. 125 days in 2002 to today 90 days. Developments are moving in the right direction, although waiting time is still too long. The main objective of the Roadmap for Mental Health is to strengthen the supply and balance large geographical differences in the provision of services. Especially in childhood and youth psychiatry, the differences between the counties were large. For example, South-Trundellag had: a coverage rate for treatment provision for children and adolescents of 1.1 pst. in 1999, the lowest coverage of the counties in the country. For this reason, Health Middle Norway has a particular challenge in the years to come. Health Mid-Norway has developed a separate action programme for mental health protection in the region. The programme also includes measures to increase the supply of children and young people. According to SAMDATA statistics, health in central Norway has seen greater economic growth in mental health protection than in somatics in the period 2002–2003. Growth has been highest in childhood and youth psychiatry, and this priority will continue. A number of expansion projects are now in the final phase. These will help to strengthen the provision of services to children and young people with mental health problems. In Levanger, a new outpatient clinic and a new 24-hour unit are now being completed in November. At DPS Tiller in Trondheim, a new outpatient clinic and day-care centre will be completed during December. During the next year, expansion projects will also be completed by DPS Volda and DPS Kristiansund, which will contribute strongly to increasing capacity. In addition, during 2005, Health Mid-Norway aims to start developing a new family unit and outpatient clinic for children and young people in Trondheim. These are all development projects resulting from the Preservation Plan for Mental Health. We are on the verge of getting up a good treatment offer for children and young people in Health Mid-Norway, although it has to be acknowledged that we are not in any way in target.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1411	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm not going to take up any discussion about the number, but even four hundred and a few-sixth children waiting for psychiatric treatment are too many. It's just in childhood it's so important that this treatment gets started. I assume that the Minister of Health also agrees with me on that. The Health Directorate has itself confirmed that Health Mid-Norway has been lagging behind in terms of the escalation plan. Then my question to the Minister of Health is: why has the Department not intervened previously to Health Mid-Norway, if you have been aware that they are significantly in line with the intention of the escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1420	I think it might be due to some kind of misunderstanding when it is said that you are in line with the goal of the escalation plan, which is a coverage of 5 pst. in all five regional health establishments. Health Mid-Norway was the health business that had the longest way to go. They had a starting point of 1.1 pst. And it was going to be 5 pst. They're now up to 2.7 pst. Let me put it this way: in general, there has been an annual growth in the somatic field that is greater than in the psychiatry, nationally, while in central Norway there have been concrete priorities that have led to greater growth in the psychiatry than in the somatic field. It's also been a great development in Middle Norway, even though we're not in target. The coverage has increased from 1.1 pst. to 2,7 pst., and the goal is 5 pst. All indications indicate that the 5 pst target of the Storting. will be achieved by the end of 2008, which is the final target for the date of the psychiatry escalation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1425	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. It's not that many months since we had this case up here in the Questionnaire because Health Mid-Norway had made a decision to suspend further expansion of DPSs. Something else, more in principle, is that it is frustrating to constantly record unfortunate conditions in many of the health care establishments regarding the psychiatry escalation plan. In this context, I can refer to the latest report from the National Audit Office, where you are unable to document how you have used earmarked funds for psychiatry. Are regional health companies so exempted from professional political governance, regulation and legislation that they do what they want? Will the Minister of Health show muscles in this regard by really going into and clearing up these relationships in all health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1432	It could be tempting to answer in a word of two letters starting with j and ending with a. I think Alvheim has knowledge that I've taken these things into account in the regional health companies in a very concrete way. I am also pleased with the support I received in the media from the head of the Social Committee regarding what some have seen as being too detailed for action by the Council of State. There is a need for better control activities with our regional health businesses. I'm doing these days reorganizing the department, including setting up my own control unit, so that I can have a continuous control and overview, and so that I can meet at any time in the Questionnaire and say that we are doing what the Storting has asked us to do. There is a need for another form of dialogue with regional health companies as an alternative to being in breathless excitement and waiting for the National Audit Office report.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1444	I want to ask the Minister of Health a question: ‘Nursing students, unskilled nurses and help nurses are pressured into taking on tasks that they do not have the skills to do. The Norwegian Nursing Association warns that this can affect patients. Health supervision responds to the fact that health professionals themselves are responsible for not accepting tasks for which they are not qualified, as they can then be punished if something goes wrong. What will the Council of State do to prevent training and unskilled pressure to carry out tasks for which you are not qualified?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1453	Both individual health professionals and the activities as such are responsible for ensuring professionally sound health care. The Health Personnel Act regulates the duties and rights of health professionals. According to the law, assistant nurses are an authorised health professionals group. Unskilled care assistants and students are defined as health professionals when providing health care. Thus, all the groups mentioned in the question of the representative May Hansen are regulated by the Health Care Act when they provide health care. Section 4 of the Health Care Act requires health professionals to carry out their work in accordance with the requirements of professional care and care that can be expected from the qualifications of health professionals, the nature of the work and the situation elsewhere. Section 5 of the same Act opens up the possibility for health professionals to entrust specific tasks to other health professionals if this is justified by the nature of the task, the qualifications of the personnel and the follow-up provided. Co-workers are subject to the supervision and supervision of health professionals. As a general rule, students and students shall be assigned tasks only in the light of training. Practice training in hospitals shall be conducted under the guidance of qualified health professionals. Regional health undertakings shall ensure that practical training is qualitatively good and of sufficient capacity. The representative of May Hansen points out that the health professionals concerned are ‘pressed’ to carry out tasks for which they are not competent. If tasks are entrusted to others who are not qualified, this may be irresponsible and an infringement of the Health Care Professional Act. Activities regulated by the Special Health Service Act and the Local Health Service Act also have a responsibility for the soundness of health services provided in the establishment. Activities shall include, inter alia: facilitating the provision of appropriate training to health-care professionals. The employer has a responsibility to ensure that students are not assigned to tasks they do not have the competence to perform. This is due to the general responsibility of the employer in relation to the real competence of the employees. This is specifically mentioned in the law on specialist health services § 3-10. It is also made clear in the Health Care Act that students and students providing health care are also considered to be health professionals. Any person providing healthcare shall, under the supervisory law, establish an internal control system for the establishment and ensure that activities and services are planned, carried out and maintained in accordance with requirements laid down in or in compliance with laws and regulations. The Ministry of Health and Health has stressed to regional health enterprises the obligations arising from the internal control provision, including the responsibility to ensure that they are known by and accompanied by both own health businesses and establishments with which they are contracted. In future, the Ministry will also pay special attention to this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1476	Because of the poor community economy around Norway, it happens every day that unskilled, nursing students and caregivers have to give out medicines. A large survey has just been carried out in all the municipalities in Eastfold, where all the municipalities that have responded, there were ten municipalities, I think, say this happens every day. It happens in all of these groups. A letter was sent to the Nord-Trøndelag University in response to a similar question that I am now asking the Minister, and there the Social and Health Directorate answers that nursing students have no independent authority to handle medicines. Therefore, practical training in the handling of medicinal products shall be undertaken by the presence and control of the authorised nurse. Today there are many nurses in this country who do not have nurses next to them and who have to carry out these tasks. I ask again, what does the Council of State actually want to do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1483	I have listed the responsibility you have when you are a health professional, no matter where you work. After all, the representative Hansen gave the answer himself in the first place, where it is pointed out that because of local economy etc. – I feel quite sure that our health professionals at approx. 250000 employees will have exactly the same issues related to their situation if there were to be 1 or 2 pst. several of the same job categories. We have to keep to the simple fact that it is the businesses themselves that have a primary responsibility to provide internal control procedures and a crew that comply with the requirements of the law. We must never relieve the 250,000 people who work in the health and care services, of the personal responsibility they also have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1488	Medicinal products are potentially harmful and there are a number of possibilities for serious administrative errors. This is also well-known in the healthcare system and is sought in various ways to reduce the risk of maladministration and serious injury to patients. We have had several cases in Norway where qualified nurses have been convicted and can no longer act as nurses. I think the Council of State is a little defensive. So these are students who are under education, who are charged with this type of job, who have problems saying no, who are on their own at work in home health care and at various institutions, and it's very difficult to say no to this. Would the Council of State be able to make clear directives to educational institutions that this is not a law?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1495	I was about to say, "Dear friend, to give the college directive that this is not allowed!" Dealing with the health law we have is one of the most basic aspects of health education, no matter what profession it is. We have 36 laws that the Storting has passed that govern the specialist health service. I assume that what is relevant to the individual occupational groups is a competence, because it is already part of the education. So to that with mismedication. It is clear that there is a serious problem in Norwegian health care that we have a significant degree of mismedication. It is true, as it is said, that nurses, but also doctors, have been convicted and deprived of the right to practice because of it. I really want to say to our young students that if someone in general tells you to do something that's illegal, there's no reason to do it. No one should have to set their personal integrity then to those degrees because you are assigned something by the overall authority. No one may be required to commit a crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1502	Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1511	The question to the Minister for Transport is as follows: ‘The Jundal Tunnel is one of the few remaining major county road projects. A State contribution within the transitional arrangements for such projects is being sought in 2005. There are no rules on the quality assurance of roadside projects. However, the West Regional Road Office has engaged external quality assurance consultants in spite of the fact that this will also happen later in the process and that this could delay the progress of the project. Has the Ministry approved the procedure chosen here?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1520	Statens vägvesen Region Vest has considered it necessary to carry out an external quality assurance of the project Jondalstunnel as part of its professional assessment of the case to county authorities. This has a particular background in the local questioning of the Road Service's cost estimate for the project. The quality assurance has been carried out in a simpler manner than the normal arrangements for the quality assurance of national road projects as a result of the Ministry of Finance's framework agreement. The question of implementing an external quality assurance has been raised with the county council and the county committee has joined it. I am pleased that the Region of the West has initiated a quality assurance initiative. This is a strength in the department's professional advice on the project. The County Municipality has not prioritised the Jondals Tunnel within the County Framework Action Programme for other national roads in Hordaland for the period 2002-2005. Nor has the Jondal tunnel been prioritised by the county council in the annual national road budgets during the period. In the Ministry of Transport Guidelines for the 2006-2015 Action Programme, the Jondals Tunnel project opens up the possibility of extending the scheme to the 2006-2009 period. Any grants will still need to be prioritised within the divided framework of other national roads in Hordaland during this period. If only county funds are to be used for the project, it will be for the county council itself to decide whether the quality assurance carried out is sufficient for the realisation of the project. However, if State sub-financing and/or State involvement are to be used in the project, the State has to assess whether the quality assurance is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1531	I thank you for the answer, but part of it is about the prioritization of drugs, which is not asked in the question. Of course, quality assurance is important and appropriate, and the question is primarily aimed at clarifying whether it follows the State guidelines on quality assurance that have been drawn up. As far as I am aware, the legislation is such that it is the Ministry of Finance that is responsible for the external quality assurance scheme for State projects of more than 500 million. kr. The project so far, and also indicated in further treatment under the County Council, requires State involvement. It is the department that is the contracting entity, known to me, and it is the Ministry of Finance that orders under the framework agreement. Following information from the Ministry of the State Council as late as 5 November of this year, it has been announced to the Swedish Road Administration that agencies are not contracting entities for state quality assurance. Is there any reason to deviate from this quality assurance plan for this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1538	It is almost strange to stand in this room and feel that you are almost criticized for having started a quality assurance. I have been at the hearing in this house because it has been claimed that the Vegvesen – in so far as the Vegvesen has been involved in the projects – did not control the quality of the analyses carried out prior to the implementation of a project. Then I have to say that it is a strength to have an external quality assurance implemented regardless of whether it should be based on the applicable legislation or whether it is something that has been voluntarily initiated. Here we are in a border country in relation to the legislation. But I take it as a strength that the Vegvesen takes it seriously that one chooses to carry out a quality assurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1543	I thank you again for the answer. Of course, the problem is not that the applicant has anything against quality assurance. The questioner is concerned that the State Quality Assurance Code is being followed, and is surprised that an underlying establishment can assume a quality assurance role which is not in the system and which is not suggested either, because it is actually so that this quality assurance system is also mentioned in Yellow Book, i.e. in the State budget for the current year. Then this leaves a doubt that the department has other issues than ensuring quality, that the final result of the project will be affected. Finally, I would like to ask the State Council to confirm that the quality assurance report will of course be publicly available, so that both the county municipality and other interested parties are given full insight into both the quality assurance outcome and the premises underlying the quality assurance process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1552	Of course, a quality assurance report will be public. I still want to say that it is important that we have the best quality possible on the basis of our decision-making. For the future, I would also like to support the initiatives taken in relation to quality assurance, even in cases where, strictly speaking, perhaps under the legislation, there is no official or formal requirement to do so. However, I think it is a strength for the procedure that there are some outsiders who have also gone through the analyses that are being carried out. I can't see that it's going to weaken one thing. I simply do not understand that. That is why I want to support the implementation of quality assurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1560	This question, from the representative Olav Akssen to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1563	I would like to give the Minister for Transport the opportunity to give a positive answer to a good question: ‘In connection with the explosion of the Rollestad tunnel, large masses of stone are tipped in Åkrafjorden. The building people want to use parts of these masses locally, which they claim will also be cheaper than dumping the rock masses in the fjord. According to the media, the Vegvesen legislation prevents the better use of these rock resources. Is the Council of State satisfied with this situation, or will it do anything?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1572	The state road authority emphasises that road projects are carried out by rational construction. The local interest group has been offered free of charge to take over stone from the tunnel, but the State Road Service has not incurred costs or responsibility for implementing private measures. So far there has been no local interest in this offer. The state road body therefore disposes of the masses by other means. It is not the legislation but the consideration of the plant management that requires the removal of the rock masses from the plant. Then I would like to stress that I have been informed that the offer from the State Road Administration is still pending. Thus, it is still possible for local stakeholders to use rock masses for local interventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1579	I thank you for your answer. It's so great that it's on offer. Supposedly, the point of leap is whether the State Road Service can run the mass to another place than the Åkrafjord, where they are now running it. It's not enough that they dump him for nothing, but it's even so that the county has said that it's a little-needed resource management. It seems to me that this is a matter where it would be good for all parties if one could find a practical solution, and I ask the Council of State: Will it encourage the Road Service to run the masses elsewhere, even if they do not take costs beyond that?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1586	First of all, I would like to stress that this offer is pending, so I hope that the contact will be established between the parties involved. Of course, I am very positive that this can be used for something reasonable, given that the driving can be solved in a rational way, which means that the Road Service does not have increased costs associated with this. If the interest is present, I feel quite confident that a practical solution will be found, if it does not involve additional costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1591	Would you like further questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1594	Yes, just a short comment more than one question. If it costs a little more for the Road Service to use the masses wisely, I thought it should be possible. So I hope the council takes it with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1599	If you agree that this is a useful project, I'm sure you'll find out how to share those costs if it involves cost increases. So here we are very open to finding good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1607	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Hallingdal, an action group has been set up to work against road salinisation on highway 7 and highway 52. The action group has large local digestion. Does the Council agree with the Action Group No on road salinisation in Hallingdal that there must be better ways to keep roads just for ice and snow than by road salinisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1616	In the 2006-2009 Action Plan, regional roadside offices will assess whether multiple roads should be operated according to the Strategy on Bar Road, which means that roads should be salted. Similarly, it shall be considered whether to salt during the transitional periods or during other exposed periods when the road is operated as a winter road. These assessments shall include the environmental impacts of increased salt use. Rv. 7 and Rv. 52 are important parts of the tribal route between the East and the West. These roads have a heavy traffic share. In addition, the roads are used by many road users who drive with rigid tyres and expect the roads to be bare and dry. The road system performs winter operation on rv. 7 until the Year and Rv. 52 to Hemsedal Center after Strategy carried the road, which involves the use of salting. Such a method provides the best road safety and foreseeable accessibility on the two national roads. The aim of the method is to ensure bar and dry roads in winter. Local conditions, road standard and traffic situation make it very difficult to maintain a high level of road safety without using salting. Furthermore, there are currently no alternative methods considered to be superior to the use of salt. On this basis, I believe it is right to use road salinisation on Rv. 7 and Rv. 52.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1625	There can be no doubt that people in Hallingdal and those at risk of car and health damage when using these roads will be shocked by the Council of State's response. After all, they have started an action that has widespread population outreach. The question is whether account should be taken not only of environmental protection but also of road degradation, wear and tear – and also of cars – and the cost of such a method, of course, in the long term. There must be other methods that are useful. What about e.g. Welling, road-hauling during periods of residence and, where appropriate, use of sand?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1632	If it is that someone is shocked that we – and I from my point of view – will give priority to road safety, I am a little surprised. Traffic safety is, in fact, very important in the policy I want to pursue from my department. This means that when 300 people are killed on Norwegian roads every year — and when the number is 14,000 including fatalities and injuries — we have a responsibility to try to find the methods and ways of operating the road network that result in fewer accidents involving injuries. This means that we have to use the methods that are available. Projects have been carried out where the impact of different types of action has been assessed and where salting has been best. There are many reasons why we would like to have other solutions, in terms of both cars, rust problems and perhaps the environment, but we need to look for the measures that work better.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1641	So to say the whole population in the area that this is about, and that is using these roads every day, is against road salinisation. Is it true that the Council of State cannot seriously believe that they are not concerned with road safety? They are busy getting these roads broken and getting them just, but they want it to be done using other methods than one that both destroys cars and wears on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1646	I read yesterday in the Hallingdølen newspaper about very difficult traffic conditions up in the valley – without there being any question of brewing or salting. We are now in a phase of the year that is very challenging in terms of very many of our roads. The problem discussed in Hallingdal is complex. We have experience from, for example: rv. 52, where more elk has come to the road because salt has remained there and has led to other road safety challenges. This is – and must be – part of the Road Service assessments when choosing the measures needed to improve road safety. I also know that other methods have been tried to avoid the negative side of salting. But as long as that's the only thing that seems to help, we still have a way to go. I have recorded that there is some resistance to this, but I think it is important to stress what are facts in relation to road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1655	Question 18 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1661	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Modernisation: ‘After the suspension of the Defence Committee, on 17 June this year, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to draw up a plan for the best enforcement of all-man rights and/or the protection of cultural-historical property in the event of disposal. Will the Council of State contribute to the inclusion of Torshov in Oslo in such a plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1670	I assume that the representative Nybakk is thinking of the state property Torshovgata 46. As stated in the Ministry of Defence's budget proposal, the Government's plan is to ensure that, through clearer procedures for the implementation of the sales, both the opportunities for outdoor life and the relationship with our cultural historical values are illuminated and evaluated. Although the sale of Torshovgata 46 is not part of such a concrete plan, we have had these issues assessed. In general, the Riksantikvar is notified when the State buildings are sold over 50 years of age — as is the case in this case. The Riksantik product assesses whether the cultural historical qualities of the property are adequately preserved or whether different protective measures are to be implemented. The oldest part of the building mass of the state's property in Torshovgate 46 is from 1880. In this case, State Building has been in contact with both the Byantikvaren and the Riksantikvaren. Archaeological studies have been carried out, and among the findings are an earlier iron age tomb. It's alerted to the rescue of this, with associated sight zones. The property was sold in 2001 because the state user, Torshov Centre of Competence, was to move. The move took place in November last year. The departments were informed in a very ordinary manner of requests for the property. Such needs did not exist. The property was announced for sale in September this year. There has been a great deal of interest in the market. In connection with the sale, the Municipality of Oslo has notified in writing that they do not want to purchase the property, but they rent some space for special school purposes. It shall also mention that the property is regulated for public purposes but that a regulatory process is being carried out on the property. Oslo Municipality is heavy within this process as a planning authority. I have great faith that the municipality will assess all aspects of the case, including the availability of the public sector and the conservation interests that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1681	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that there is a lot of contact, including: to find out what is protective and to look at the tombs that exist there. We like to call it Torshov, or Torshov, or what one chooses to refer to this property as, as Oslo's Eastern Farmers – a state property that State Building has decided to sell to a private entrepreneur. But this is a natural pearl in the big city, with protective buildings and tombs and large green areas stretching down towards the Torshov Valley. I would also like to add that what I am informed about is that a majority in Oslo City Council is actually opposed to Torshov being reregulated for public purposes. On the basis of that, I would like to ask whether renewed contact will be made so that the municipality of Oslo can either purchase this property or rent the entire property.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1690	Of course, there is nothing wrong with the fact that the municipality of Oslo can buy the property. But I would like to stress that it is Oslo Municipality as a planning authority that has a particularly important role in relation to the future use of the site, regardless of who owns the property. It is true, as Nybakk’s representative says, that the property today is part of a large open-air area – Torshovgate 46 is not regulated for open-air use, but is part of what is perceived as an open-air area in the Torshov Valley. But it's an area that's regulated for public purposes. It is the municipality of Oslo that may need to re-regulate for other purposes. As far as I know, there have been no objections to the possible readjustment of parts of the area for residential purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1697	That's how, as the Council of State says, Oslo Municipality is planning authority. The City Council has probably signaled to the Ministry that there is no objection to any reregulation. But it's now that there's probably a majority against a re-regulation. I hope we can clarify this. A meeting of the Council of State has also been requested, so that we can get closer communication on the whole matter. I would like to refer to the debate on the East Bank. Not so many properties have this character. In Oslo, this property is the small breathing space, the real green area, in the interior of Oslo. This is also a part of the city that needs room for new kindergartens and schools. It is important for the City Council that this property is still regulated for public use and that a dialogue be established with the Municipality of Oslo to dispose of it to the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1704	I stress that I will in no way oppose the fact that the Municipality of Oslo takes over Torshovgata 46. My task is to meet Storting's expectations about the sale of state property that is no longer needed for state activities. This property is an example of this. I will ensure that future owners become familiar with both the regulatory planning process and the likely outcome of the planning process, so that future owners know what the area can be used for, because it is likely to reflect the willingness to pay for the property. I will attend the dialogue we will have on the matter. My task is as I said to dispose of the property. Then it's Oslo Municipality as a planning authority that has a special responsibility for the future regulation, and decides what the property will be used for in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1714	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘Minister for Protection of the Environment Hareide says in the Newspaper on 2 November this year that the Government Party agreement for gas power stations will not end at the next fall of the Grand Prix, but that the Sem agreement in this area will apply until 2008. Does the Council of State share this view?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1723	The Sem declaration was negotiated in 2001 on the basis of discussions between the three government parties. In relation to the duration of this document, I will reply by referring to what is initially stated in the Sem declaration: ‘The present document is valid for the entire 2001-2005 enlargement period and will constitute the political platform for a cooperative administration by the Right, Christian People’s Party and the Left.’ As regards the relationship to gas power, the Sem declaration states: ‘The Board of Cooperation is basing its decision in the Inst. S. No 122 to the effect that no more stringent greenhouse gas emission requirements are to be imposed than is usual for gas power producers in other EEA countries.’;» [[1999 - 2000]] In addition, it says: «Until a system of tradable allowances is established in line with the Kyoto Protocol, it is assumed that additional concession and emission permits are granted only to gas power plants based on CO2-free technology.» The Kyoto Protocol is expected to enter into force from 2008, which was the background to Hareide’s opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1746	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that in the case of the gas power case in Norway, there are different signals from different government councils, including from Prime Minister Bondevik. Sponheim has also expressed itself critical of gas power plants. I just want to remind the Minister of Energy that Minister of Environment Hareide says in the Newspaper: ‘The agreement has substance in excess of this magnification period for the Government Parties. In this field, the Sem Agreement shall apply until 2008.’.» In other words, it is clear here that some governments are adding more to the Sem agreement than the Minister of Energy is doing. Will the members of the government speak with one tongue about energy issues and gas power plants in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1760	As I said in my reply, the Sem Declaration, which was negotiated in 2001, says initially explicitly about its duration, and it is in fact agreed by the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Oil and Energy. That being said, it is also right to add that the co-operation administration has now passed three years, and during this period we have implemented very important measures to ensure energy supply in Norway in the context of sustainable development. Through the Sem Declaration, we also have good cooperation in overcoming the different starting points of government parties in some areas of climate and energy policy. The fact that there have also been signs that a gas power plant in Forest may be in the process of being realised, in addition to the fact that the Government has also provided large financial resources to promote cleaning technology for gas power plants, are excellent examples of how the Government is able to cooperate in this respect. I feel reasonably sure that if the Co-operation Board is mandated to continue after the elections, we will be able to move forward in relation to these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1769	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that she is correcting the course of the Minister of Environmental Protection at this point. Just to end with a question: will the energy policy and gas power plant conditions be clarified between the government parties before the 2005 elections, i.e. the next harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1776	As I said at the outset, for three years this government has clearly cooperated very well on these issues, and I feel fairly confident that, if we get a new mandate after the 2005 elections, we will also be able to find answers to the challenges we face in relation to these issues. Now, too, the various political parties represented in this house are going to have their national meetings and adopt their political objectives for the next period and also what they are going to vote on. Then you have to decide on the different signals and work on it when you are trying to find a new platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1787	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment: ‘In the Western Sea and a number of other areas of the country, farmers have suffered great losses because of huge quantities of goose grazing and destroying grasses. The relationship has been illuminated by both pilot actions and projects. A more sustainable management system is now being sought for goose, including environmental protection authorities. What will the Council of State do to ensure the long-term environmental and business conditions in this matter, also in the light of international agreements and responsibilities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1796	Several species of wild geese cross borders across Europe and have important areas of life in Norway. Often they graze on a relatively small agricultural area and can cause monthly crop losses to individual farmers. This is particularly true in certain areas of the Northern Trøndelag and the Nordic countries. I understand that the farmers who are affected by these losses feel that they cannot take responsibility alone. Norway has signed international agreements that oblige us to take care of the biological deficiency. In particular, Norway is annexed to the Bonn Convention for the Protection of migratory species of wild animals. In the main message on Norway's follow-up to the Convention on Biological Diversity, St.meld. No 42 for 2000–2001, it has been suggested that all governance powers, industries and other relevant actors should take part in the work on sustainable use and protection of biological deficiency. The game powers have been attentive to the problems of geese and agriculture in dealing with wildlife products, which are particularly related to the killing of geese. Among other things, there is a fixed hunting time for species where this is defensive. However, it is clear that the killing of geese is not an adequate instrument in this case. At the 2003 agricultural level, 1 million were set. kr at the disposal of a project that will result in research-based recommendations on effective geese management measures. National and international obligations shall be taken into account and a balance shall be made between environmental protection and agriculture. The County of Nordland and the County of Nord-Trøndelag are responsible for the project and one should provide a final report at the end of 2004. Once the results of this project have been achieved, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture will assess how different measures can work together most effectively in this matter. For 2005, a total of 350 million are also covered by the agricultural agreement. EUR 100 million for regional environmental programmes. kr to municipal environmental instruments in the agricultural sector. The funds will be allocated to the individual counties and municipalities in order to stimulate agricultural activity that takes into account the overall regional and local environmental challenges for the sector. In regions where the concern for migratory species of geese is an important environmental challenge, public funds will be a priority for such measures. I therefore believe that the environmental and agricultural governance powers have had an active approach to action. This effort will be forwarded to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1813	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that most of Europe’s goose species have increased to some extent in the last ten years, and they continue to increase. And the hunt's getting smaller. Then, changes in agriculture and the use of pastures have led to the introduction of the goose. In better management of the goose, it could have become a resource instead of being a cause for conflict. I haven't heard anyone who wants away all goose. Plans for better governance are laid down, as the Council of State here mentions, and there are still things going on to prevent these damage. But I would like to ask if the Council of State regards this as a purely environmental matter and not as something that in the areas affected should be financially burdened the farmers, for example. using funds from the agricultural agreement. Will the Council of State view this as an environmental matter and manage the economy of projects based on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1822	I understand the problem that the representative Arnesen is dealing with. There are individuals who have significant challenges when it comes to these problems. And as the representative also said, problems have added. I'm glad we got to a project. In that project, both the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment are in. I thought it was important to have close cooperation here. This is a matter that is important for the environment. We have international obligations when it comes to caring for the species. But this also affects the farmers. The peasant team has been busy with this. We now have a project that we are working on. I just think that cooperation between environmental authorities and agricultural authorities is what is becoming important in this matter in the future, so cooperation is what I want to facilitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1829	My point is that I do not want the farmers, in addition to being burdened with this problem, also to be burdened financially. I know that it is a great will and a great commitment to finding solutions in the areas affected. And it's important that you now follow up. When the plan is finished, you have to follow up, and then you have to do the things that are necessary, so that it does not become paralysis. So I would like to ask in relation to this that goes on international agreements: will the Council of State take these things up? Because it's clear that it concerns international agreements, it's international conditions that make us in this situation. Will the Council of State address these issues from an international perspective, in order to make the necessary progress there as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1838	To Arnessen's question, I would say that Norway is already a proponent for sustainable development in relation to all species. We are obliged to do so in relation to international conventions. Just having a healthy development of species is important. So already today, we're spokesmen to ensure a viable use of the biological deficiency. I want to focus on this thing, because we see that it's an increasing problem. But as I said in my previous answer, it is important that there be cooperation between the environmental authorities and the agricultural authorities. I think it's the best way to go to secure a solution in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1846	I have a question for our Honourable Minister for the Environment: ‘Water lake, which is a drinking water source for 60,000 people, must be cleaned as soon as possible, states the State pollution control report to the Minister for the Environment. The Authority considers that an immediate action of 100 million is needed. kr to save the watercourse. During a visit to Våler on 1 November this year, the Council of State promised more funds for the purification of the sea. What means will be given and what cleansing measures will be prioritised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1855	This summer, I asked the State Department for a status report on the Vansjø-Hobølvasstläget. The SFT report concludes that Vansjö is strongly overburdened by the nutrient salt. Pollution is mainly caused by waste water discharges and agricultural run-offs. It is therefore important to significantly reduce nutrient salt inputs from both sources. The report also shows that the establishment of the Morsa project in 1999 has resulted in significant reductions in emissions. I'm impressed by the work of the municipalities and Morsa project. The holistic approach to pollution problems and local involvement in line with the EU Water Framework Directive has been important here. The SFT believes that the situation in the western part of Lake Van is so serious that one, in addition to reducing phosphorus inputs to the watercourse, should also consider closer to extraordinary measures directly in the sea. These may include the extraction of special fish species, the supply of oxygen, the coughing of vegetation, changes in the regulation of the water flow through the watercourse, etc. As Minister for the Environment, I have a special focus on Lake Van. I have now asked the SFT to initiate a cooperation with the Morsa project to strengthen efforts to improve water quality in the watercourse, and the SFT will look in particular at possible inland measures. In the government's proposal for a government budget is capped. 1441 item 39, clean-up measures, proposed increase of 14 million. kr, and some of these funds have been proposed for more exceptional measures in Lake Van. The concrete distribution of funds over the item will be clear when we have an overview of the projects that qualify for support. The primary measure to improve water quality in the water lake will continue to be a reduction in agricultural run-off and a improvement in sewerage purity. I would like to stress that cleaning up the sewer sector in the watercourse is a municipal responsibility. This applies to the principle that impurity is to be paid. The budget item in which the Ministry of the Environment supports sewerage measures in the Vansjø-Hobølvassläget has been transferred to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs with the approval of the Stortinget. The municipalities of Morsa will, however, receive additional framework grants from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, both this year and over the next three years, as a consequence of this transfer. Although local farmers have achieved impressive emission reductions over the last three years, challenges in the field of agriculture remain. The power of saving Lake Van needs to continue, and the Ministry of the Environment and the SFT will seek to resolve this in cooperation with local and regional authorities and the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1874	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is gratifying that the Ministry of the Environment has now put cleaning measures of the Vansjø-Hobølvassläge high on the political agenda. However, when we go into the various budgets, it is difficult to get what means and what concrete measures – depending on the size of the funds – will be implemented. I also agree with the council when he says that it must be a spice layer, and that it is the municipalities that have responsibility. But it is also the case, particularly in the agricultural sector, that flooding and government are responsible for agricultural policy, i.e. the channelling policy, where cereals, grass, etc., which are grown extensively in the Eastern and Eastern regions, mean a large flow of nitrogen and phosphorus to our watercourses. So on that basis, all the parties have joined the channelling policy, except the Advance Party. But then the Government should also take that responsibility and grant more funds to carry out a clean-up of the sea, and it should take longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1883	I join the description representative Hedstrøm has of the important work that is in Lake Van. I am also impressed by the local work being done. I was myself on sightings in the Vansjø area a couple of weeks ago, and I experienced there the work that was done. I also met with the SFT yesterday, where we discussed the Vansee project. I disagree with the description that we have not arranged for this. We are now increasing the post by 14 million. kr, and we will also put funds at the disposal of the Vansjø project. I expect, and it also shows the dialogue we have had with the local actors, that there will be an application for the ministry. When that application comes, we'll evaluate it. This is an important work, and we want to be with and cheer it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1890	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. I want to grasp what he said about the polluter paying, and that this is a responsibility for those who pollute. Then it is a paradox that industry and business are given rigorous emission rules — and that may be good, because expensive sewage treatment plants have to be built, etc. – while agriculture, which is the biggest bandit in the drama of the Hobøl-Vansjö watercourse, has been supported for many years in order not to contaminate. There may be support for not harvesting ploughing and other measures. Should not stricter requirements be imposed on the agricultural sector if Lake Van is not to be destroyed as a source of drinking water?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1897	This is a drinking water source for over 60,000 people, and it's clear that when you experience this local exposure, it's both because one has this as drinking water, and because this is such an important area. So to the question of the agricultural sector -- I'm not necessarily completely in agreement with that description. Significant work has also been done in relation to the agricultural sector and necessary measures have been taken. Through the Morsa project, agriculture has also taken the necessary action here. In the discussion one has had in connection with the Morsa project, one has also assessed whether one must have more stringent measures. I think it is necessary to assess now, because we have seen that even if the necessary measures have been taken, that job is not – in the near future – good enough. But I did not think that the assessment applies to the agricultural sector alone, there are also other sectors where we need to assess measures in relation to waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1910	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: «In the daily newspaper on November 2nd this year, government councillor Hareide announces a tougher climate policy in Norway. According to the newspaper, the Council of State ‘regards Norway’s compliance with the international climate agreement to cut as much as possible at home’. Does the Council of State consider that Norwegian industry should be required to implement climate change measures that have a higher cost than the estimated quota prices, and in that case how much extra costs does the Council of State consider that industry has to rely on to calculate in relation to the obligations given to its competitors?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1919	I stick to the Joint Political Platform of the Co-operation Agency, the Sem Declaration, which says that the Government will achieve a substantial part of the emission reductions needed to meet the Kyoto Protocol's emissions obligation through national measures. This is set out in the Climate Plugin message, St. meld. No 15 for 2001–02, and the Grand Duchy has joined this. Taking a substantial part of the reductions at home has always been this government's policy. Norway already has a significant response to greenhouse gas emissions, including: we have one of the world's most comprehensive CO2 charging systems. It is estimated that, without the measures put in place in the 1990s, Norwegian emissions were 15-20 pst. higher. As we know, we made an odelstingsproposition on greenhouse gas allowance trading last Friday. This proposal for the climate quota law is a follow-up to the supplementary notification on climate change and the decision of the Storting in the context of its examination in June 2002. In accordance with the decision of the Storting at the time, the Government has had a close dialogue with the industry on the development of the individual elements of the allowance system. In order to ensure the competitiveness of the process industry, the Government is committed to ensuring that the design of the Norwegian quota system is close to the EU quota system, both for sources, gases and other elements. Allowances will be distributed free of charge, as the Stortinget estimated in 2002. The Government further recommends that the Norwegian quota system be linked to the EU quota system, such as: will ensure that Norwegian capables are at the same allowance price as their European competitors. Through the dialogue with industry, the Ministry of Environment has come to an understanding with the Land Association of the Process Industry, which ensures that the part of the process industry that is not included in the quota system at this stage will also reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The National Association of Process Industries is committed to reducing emissions from the process industry, excluding gas refineries and oil and gas landing terminals, by 20 pst. in 2007 compared to 1990 levels. This shows that the industry itself is ready to be involved in achieving real emission reductions in Norway. In addition to implementing national measures, the Government is opening up to use the so-called flexible mechanisms under the Protocol to meet the discharge obligations of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1933	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the allocation of allowances, as stated by the Council of State, which came a few days after the statements in the Newspaper, the quota obligation for gas power plants is imposed even if this was not included in the draft which was being consulted this summer. This is, in my opinion, a step in the right direction, but it is nevertheless said to have a national quota area at least three years before the rest of the world. Can the Council of State give me one single sensible explanation as to why to prevent Norwegian business from experiencing new problems when this could lead to the relocation of our enterprises, which are completely at the top of the world in environmental terms, from Norway and countries that do not have such requirements? There will be no environmental benefit from this, rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1942	The system we are now introducing is close to the system that the EU is introducing for its enterprises. It is a good system, which ensures that we reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and that is important. Yesterday there was also a report that said something about the challenges we are facing from greenhouse gas emissions. In the Arctic we feel that the temperature increase is much larger than what we had believed. We see that the sea ice has been reduced by 15-20 pst. the last 30 years. We know that the projections for the Arctic temperature increase are between four and seven degrees. It shows that we are content to take the climate challenge seriously. The former asked us the question: Do we have climate change? We now get a clearer and clearer answer to that question: we already have climate change. We're forced to take active action, and that's what the government's going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1947	I thank the Council again for the answer. His statements to the Daily Newspaper, which I referred to in my main question, are in stark contrast to the press release that the Ministry of the Environment sent out in connection with the proposal on allowances, and there may be reason to ask the question whether one hand knows what the other person is doing, in the Government. But in this press release, and to the extent that the Council of State's last response, it may seem as if the Council of State and the Government have now realized that the most important thing is to bring down the total emissions, no matter where they are. Does this mean that the Government is now saying clear goodbye to unilateral Norwegian symbolism policies that obviously work against its purpose?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1954	The government stands for just the same policy that we did when we joined. Then we said that we should take a substantial part of the reductions nationally. It is the policy that is firm. There are now quota cases for treatment in Stortinget, and we look forward to that treatment. But it was also commented by the representative of Vaksdal that the gas power plants were included in the quota system. I think it's a good solution we've found, precisely because it's in line with the EU's vision. At the same time, we have the possibility to use the pollution laws. It was important for the Government not to weaken the pollution laws and to have the ability to use them in relation to others. gas power plants. So there's a healing here: we take gas power plants into the allowance system, but we can use pollution laws to prevent large emissions, in accordance with the important international climate quota agreements that we have committed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1961	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-10.ana.ud2272e1972	There is no record.
