ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e27	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli, Mette Korsrud and Harald Espelund For the state of Hedmark: Helge Bjørnsen For the province of Hordaland: Ragna Flotve For Troms County: Ruth Stenersen For Southern Tribute County: Ola Røtvej
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e59	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen. –Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings today and tomorrow. The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e66	On behalf of the representatives of May Hansen, Sigbjørn Molvik and myself, I would like to make proposals to equate maternity benefits with sickness benefits in the regulations and agreements on pensions, long-term care and temporary employment as well as in relation to the right to holiday pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e71	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e92	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Per-Cristian Foss State Council Odd Einar Dørum State Council Kristin Krohn Devold The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e111	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Recently, the 2004 tax lists were published, which show that many in Norway have high incomes and large assets. The tax lists also show that many of the most prosperous people in this country pay little or nothing in taxes. In the government budget for next year, the government proposes to give over 4 billion dollars in tax relief in the top tax and over 1/2 billion dollars in relief in the property tax. The Ministry of Finance's own tables show that this gives the following breakdown: A single employee who has NOK 150 000 in income receives a tax relief of NOK 1200, i.e. one hundredth of a month, while one with a income of SEK 1 million. NOK 20 000 in the tax bill, 16 times more. When, at the top of this, we also know that those with low incomes are going to be involved and pay through increased VAT, my question is: Does the Minister of Finance think that this is good and fair distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e120	Yes. Tax reform gives us a better distribution profile than what exists in today's tax system. The representative Hill-Marta Solberg started by saying that there are many who pay little or nothing in taxes. This is true of those who have large investment incomes — they may be in a situation where their total business activity is such that they pay little tax. After the tax reform, we need to be more equal between different labour incomes, whether they come through the capital tax rate or through the tax rate on labour income. So that's how we get a better distribution profile with a tax reform like, among other things. also enables us to abolish the sharing model and make the system more transparent and accessible to those who want to study the tax situation of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e127	I understand that the finance minister is not dealing with the question I am asking, and the examples I refer to, employee-to-employee distribution, which is actually a consequence of his proposal. So the government’s own proposal proves that the relief given comes first and foremost to those who are the most prosperous. In addition, the Government has announced a further 16 billion dollars in tax relief in the coming years. At the same time, we hear daily about municipalities that don't have the money to use newly built hospitals, we hear that the school classes are gradually being filled up, and that there are starting to be 40 students per day. teacher. Is this not an example of the Minister of Finance and the Government putting tax reliefs on the rich and prosperous ahead of well-being, such as school and care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e132	I am a little uncertain about what the questioner is really asking whether it is the tax system, the tax proposals for 2005 or whether it is the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e137	I can repeat it if I get a chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e142	The President doesn't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e145	I will try to answer all the questions raised, to the best of my ability. I think it's important to see the justice of a tax system, not just the changes from one year to another. However, the changes from one year to another, in 2005, provide tax relief for all income groups. If the marginal tax rates on employee income are to be more likened to the marginal tax rates for those living on capital income, it is necessary to reduce the rates. So if you want to remove the divisional model, you have to put the bets down. We do nothing more dramatic than bring the marginal tax rate on higher revenues down to almost the level of Hill-Marta Solberg as a hot defender throughout the 1990s – 48,5 pst. It was social then. It should be equally social now. It also provides equality between different groups that have income from capital and from work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e153	The President will allow three additional questions – first Tore Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e156	I want to go a little further on the distribution system that the Government has now presented, and on the agreement that the Government was a party to, that is, the IA agreement, which would reduce sick leave, which would involve an inclusive working life, which would get more out of work, disabled people, etc. – i.e. space for more people in work. What is the reason why the Government is now unilaterally violating this agreement? Does the Government not see that it can now become much more difficult to conclude agreements with the social partners, when it is actually breaking a unilateral agreement that has such important elements in it to get more out of work and for the inclusive working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e163	I just want to make it clear, for the sake of order, that this is not part of the tax system, but I would like to answer questions about the sickness pay scheme. I am a little surprised that the representative Nordtun is attacking a proposal his own government has promoted on a number of occasions earlier, with a number of more burdens for employers, but it is a fact that the IA agreement has not given the intended reduction in sick leave. It costs billions just above this year's budget. A small part of it is now recovered by self-payment in the sickness pay scheme, which I am convinced will stimulate employers to invest more in reducing long-term sick leave, which is what is increasing most.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e170	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e173	I notice that the Minister of Finance keeps saying that this budget gives tax relief to all income groups. This may be true in the case of employee income, but then it is a few hundred-fold — perhaps even less than a hundred-fold — for those with the least income, and up to many tens of thousands in tax relief for those who have the most. Only the very highest income groups get a tax relief of SEK 4.1 billion, and in addition they get relief from the wealth tax of hundreds of millions. There is only one word that describes this budget, and that is that it is profoundly «social». I understand that the Per-Kristian Foss government council wants to defend this, because the social profile in the budget – or the lack of social profile – is classic Right Policy: you give most to those who have the most – and almost nothing to others. Can the Council of State Per-Kristian Foss explain why it is that those who do not have employee income, the million who live on retirement or social security, are getting an increase in the proportion of the government's budget in a thousandth of a month? How does it look to all of them? Wouldn't that mean that almost one million Norwegians will actually get tax austerity, including self-promotion?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e182	No, no, no. The last question is not documented in all the tables we have presented in the budget, and in all the questions asked by SV. Of course you can say that, but it doesn't get any more true for that reason. For pensioners and social securityers, too, there are reliefs in this context by giving married and cohabiting pensioners their actual social security. I remember that in the case of the property tax – as the representative of Djupedal imagines on every occasion only a few rich people – it is actually 40 pst. it is paid by pensioners. The relief in the property tax we're adding now has two reasons. One is easy at the bottom. In particular, they relate to those with small assets and smaller deposits, and to the equality between different shares imposed on us by EEA law, i.e.: that listed shares and unlisted shares must have the same valuation basis. Of course, I'm aware that you can both set it up and put it down. We have chosen to equalize by putting it down so that for example mutual funds, in which very many common people save, are given the same valuation basis as unlisted shares and listed shares.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e189	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e192	The Minister of Finance pretends that tax haven't been associated with the profile otherwise and with the funds that are for other tasks. So it's going to cost you $4 billion. as a result of a very tight framework for the municipal sector next year. In these days, local authorities struggle with care and schooling, as well as with the promotion of culture, voluntary participation, business development and non-statutory tasks, which are very important, for example. to maintain a day centre layer. My question relates to: The Minister of Finance is quoted in several places in the media as saying that the municipalities should now concentrate only on statutory tasks. I ask him to confirm that it is the Government's view that the municipalities' tasks are now to be turned in to deal with statutory tasks, that there are fewer resources available to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e201	The answer is no, I cannot confirm it, because the premise is wrong, and the rendering of my view is wrong. So the starting point is going to be crazy. But what I've said is that if I were a municipal politician, I would have prioritised the statutory tasks first, and then maybe solved other tasks gradually. Many municipalities have done so, with excellent results, with or without property taxes for their inhabitants – it varies. The difference between municipalities is very large. Someone manages better than others, to say it carefully. I actually thought it was Storting’s opinion – and also the representative’s – that when you legislate something, it should come first. Otherwise, I am fully aware that there is coherence in budgets. But I have a little trouble seeing the context of the comments of the representative Meltveit Kleppa, because I understand that she wants to put herself at a tax level that is unchanged from this year. Then she has at her disposal NOK 1.65 billion, which is net bookable tax relief for 2005. I have not registered that her claim for changes to the budget is kept within that framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e213	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e216	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence a question. In June this year, the Stortinget took a decision on the disposal of the property of the Defence – in the wake of the Bolärne case. I refer to the decision, where the Government is asked to ‘ review the property of the State to be disposed of, in particular in view of the properties of interest in relation to the possibilities of outdoor life and/or cultural history of the public, and to draw up a plan for the best observance of all-man rights and/or the protection of such property’. Despite this decision, Change Property confirms that they have sold properties that are also of public interest throughout the summer – as if nothing has happened. My question is then: Why has the Council not instructed Change Property to stop the sale of this variety of properties to Stortinget has been given an overview and can itself assess which properties are to be sold, so that for the future we can avoid such matters as the Bolärne case?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e226	The current decision of the Stortinget implies that, as part of its conversion, the Defence is required to sell 2 million m2 of property, among others. to finance the conversion. This is one of the objectives that we in the Ministry of Defence and Defence have been asked to achieve through the decisions taken by Stortinget in spring 2001. This is one of the three main funding instruments for the conversion, i.e. the sale of 2 million m2 of property, where the proceeds of the sale go to the same defense. They go to initial investment in other buildings, and they go to other types of investment in the Defence. The whole purpose of the change in defence is to move funds from capacities and operations you do not need today to capacities and operations you need in the future. What is known is that the Progress Party wants a different funding of the Defence, where the sales income from property shall no longer be a financing basis. For the time being, there is no majority in the Stortinget. In the case of the East Bank, the Government has found a solution to this matter in line with the intention expressed during the Great Government's proceedings in June. That means that one is now aiming to sell the Eastern Islands to the County Municipality. We have changed our practice with regard to the disposal institute, so that we can not only dispose of the rate to the municipality, but also to the county municipality, according to what Stortinget asked us to look at in June. That means that the Eastern Bolärne case now seems to get its solution completely according to Stortinget's wishes. But that doesn't mean that we're going to stop what we're required in a big decision, that's to sell 2 million m2 of building mass to fund the conversion of the Defense. If we were to take that into account, we would have to have adopted another funding first.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e248	I understand it so that the Council of State does not at all take into account a decision taken by a magnificence. I think that's quite eye-catching. The decision to which I refer has been taken after the decision to which the Council of State refers, and therefore an initiative should be taken to achieve this. When the Bolärne case is finally resolved, it is not because of the change of ownership's clumsy treatment of this matter, but because the buyer has expressed himself very favourably and made a change with which everyone is satisfied. It's primarily because of the buyer. I understand that the Council of State does not want to address the question that the Progress Party has asked earlier, about the disposal of these properties to municipalities and county councils free of charge, and whether we can possibly contribute to the budget to get this money in place in the usual way. That's how I understand it. Another thing: When the Storting gradually gets an overview of which properties are to be disposed of, will the Council of State take the initiative to change Property liquidation, and that professional real estate agents take care of the further sale?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e259	Firstly, the Ministry has followed up the decisions taken in the United Kingdom in June relating to the Bolärne case. It's been squeezed out in St. Prp. No 1, where this is mentioned in particular. But of course, there is an opportunity for members of the Storting Defence Committee to ask additional questions in the budgetary hearings we are going to have on all the issues mentioned in the budget proposal, including the Bolärne case. But, of course, we in the Government cannot deal with minority comments on changes in the policies we conduct. And the policy we are pursuing is to sell properties, not free of charge, that the Advance Party wants, but minimum price – and we like to sell over rates to finance the conversion of the Defence. When alternative funding is in place, when the defense is sure that these billions come in another way, we can, of course, sell properties free of charge. But this isn't in place. That is why we are dealing with the current decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e266	There will be three follow-up questions – first Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e269	I still feel that the Minister of Defense has not answered the real question from Per Ove Width, about the decision to raise to Stortinget the issue of further sales. Is it so to understand that it will be presented so that the Storting can decide which properties are to be sold, if any? Then the Council of State is very concerned to show that the Storting has adopted a budget. That's absolutely right. The lot and the government parties have even increased sales of properties on the income side. The Council of State is very concerned about the holding of major decisions and budgets. In the evening post today, there is a rather significant heading of many other decision-making that appears to be non-follow-up by the Defence – there are reductions in operating costs and other things. On the contrary, there are quite significant changes in relation to the follow-up. Is the Council of State particularly concerned with keeping budgets in relation to the sale of properties and the sale of real estate, or is it equally interested in other areas? And with regard to the picture that was drawn this summer, and that is being drawn now, I would ask the Council of State: does she feel that she still has full control of the defense, and that the job she is doing is satisfactory in complying with all the staging orders?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e281	I'm especially pleased with that question. The defence conversion is in progress. The three decisions that were taken, based on the fact that we reach the migration targets in the current period, are the sale of 2 million m2 of building stock – that is when we – save operating costs of 2 billion kroner compared to the situation in 2000 – that when we – the downsizing of 5,000 employees by 31 December 2005 – we also aim to achieve that. A challenge in the next period, however, 2005–08, is, as we pointed out in St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004, to control the compensation of employees of the Defence Force. The main problem is that there is a disparity between fixed salary and supplementation. It's a misunderstanding that's based on another time, another defense. But here it is the organizations that, together with the head of defence, must voluntarily come up with another system. Here I hope that all the parties at Stortinget can express their support for the head of defence, so that in his work he has a greater chance of succeeding with the organizations, just to get control of the payroll costs associated with the addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e295	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions. So the president hopes we can get back to the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e298	I am pleased that the Eastern Islands now remain in public ownership, because it is a great victory for the public. The defense has sold quite a number of valuable properties after the decision to collapse the Eastern Islands, among other things. a property in the Salt called Stemland/Nes, also a property of great interest to the public. Why was this sales process not stopped following the decision of the Storting on the Eastern Islands, in order to assess the different public interests associated with this property, such as conditions and considerations of all-man rights and cultural historical values, with a view to maintaining this property in public ownership as well? As you know, this property was sold at a rate of 1.7 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e305	I consider the question to be partially answered in the previous Questionnaire. The main purpose of the sales to the Defence is to finance further modernisation, and it is therefore not such that the Storting has decided that the sales of the Defence Property should stop. It would have stopped the transition, and it would have put this Council of State to considerable criticism. What is the situation, on the other hand, is that it is local in each municipality, and now also as a new scheme, which we have notified in St.prp. No 1, as requested by the Stortinget, opens up the possibility that the county municipality can also purchase at the rate. Where there is no interest in that, it is sold externally, as in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e314	Rita Tveiten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e317	That was said in the decision relating to document No. The 8-proposal that was up for treatment before the holiday, that we should get a list of what kind of property can be disposed of, and what kind of property should continue to be public eight. Perhaps this would have been a nice guide for those who are going to report their interest in property that is for sale, and not least for what kind of property the government is going to spend for sale. When can we expect such a list to be made known, both to the Storting and to those who are looking for property in the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e325	First, I would like to stress that with regard to the cancellation the Government has made in St.prp. No 1 related to the Bolärne case, we have cancelled it as we interpreted the Storting decision. Defence construction works approx. 1 000 single sales. I have not interpreted the decision to deal with 1 000 individual cases in the Defence Committee. If this was the wish, I am almost tempted to say be so good! But what I see is the intention of the Stortinge decision, which is exactly what Rita Tveiten has to say: that we make sure that interested people in the regions can be given an opportunity to live on the properties, and that municipalities and county councils can have more opportunity to spend time on them at their own expense. Change Property has an overview of all the properties they have for sale, and of course it is available to buyers in the individual region. But I continue to interpret Stortinget to that there is no desire in the Committee on the treatment of 1000 individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e334	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e337	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Recent media disclosures have shown that more and more brutal environments are pushing girls to sell sex in Norway, and that Norwegian authorities are actually indirectly contributing to this. Many had great hopes for the action plan against trafficking, but we now experience that the Government has been stripped of credibility in this matter. It's been a year and a half: where are the safe places of stay? Where are the cultural agents? Where is the money to follow the action plan? And what in the world does Norway signal when we let the police arrest and prison 'trafficked' women without papers or with false papers? Well, the traffickers were right; the police are not going to help the girls, on the contrary. I've just been a delegate to the United Nations. That's where the entire youth post, which is U.D.'s post, was dedicated to the trafficking issue. But what does it help to encourage other countries to take the problem seriously, when we have so little ability to do what's going on at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e348	The representative is strongly involved, and there is reason to do so on behalf of the people involved, but not in terms of what the Government has done. There was little focus on this matter before 2002, and our action plan has put pressure on the case both at home and outside. What's the challenge in the matter is that to get help, someone has to admit that they're a trafficking victim. The police currently have three issues in which it is the case, which can go after the so-called slave trade paragraph, and which involves quite a number of people. The police have also helped girls get out of Norway safely. The competence of the police and at all levels is under construction. There is no doubt that we have more steps to go, but it is also true that when we recently visited the representative of the OSCE, we got credit for what we had done, both outside and at home. It's a representative traveling across Europe. I think we're going to admit that this requires tough and systematic action, because those who are on the other side are tough and systematic, and they've been going on for quite a long time. And if we take the situation of a girl, we know that the person by exposing himself and saying that she is a trafficking victim, probably has to weigh this with risk on his own against threats to family at home. We know that the police through the media have said that e.g. girls in the Nigerian prostitution community in Oslo complain about this because of tough represals. For example, I have myself. met girls who have received police protection, including one who then appeared in legal proceedings but also one who has been deeply unsure whether or not she should take advantage of the situation and witness, because she was afraid of the situation of her own people at home. Therefore, to combat trafficking, it must be done in Norway, in cooperation with other countries. We do that, both through the cooperation we have around the Baltic Sea, the cooperation we have in the Nordic countries, and the cooperation we have in Europe. So the representative should be impatient with respect to results, but should not be impatient with the fact that there is no pressure and involvement to produce results.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e362	I thank you for the answer, and it's in and for itself as expected. I think the Council of States should also be aware that many have been quite reluctant to criticise, precisely because they have been waiting to see what the action plan will bring. That's why it's starting to grumble, because they're starting to get impatient on behalf of the girls. Most importantly, it is to ensure that the ‘trafficked’ girls can feel safe in Norway. Now I'm going to quote a policeman who spoke to Dagbladet on October 17. He said, "We don't know how this is organized, and our problem is that the girls don't dare to talk because they're afraid of represals." No, they don't dare to talk – and why not? Yes, because the police are largely incarculating and transporting the girls. Then the question is, how has the Council of State planned to ensure that the police get the girls' trust in such a situation? I know that many policemen are also very concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e376	It is possible that the representative is aiming for a recent update. Just as I went into the hall, I was told that the information from that girl was given in such a way that the police had reason to believe that you were facing a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act. But then you gradually discover that there might be something else. Then we're just going to admit that we have to be even better at trying to discover and see the signs early. But then we're dependent on working with everyone who can report this. And what the representative can be sure is that the police want to do that. When we have three things involving Section 224 with broad branches, this is a systematic police work. In many contexts, we're just reaching these issues because we're getting close to another form of serious organized crime. We just have to admit that we are facing a social sin that takes time to fight. But there's no doubt about the will to do anything, either by the police, prosecution authorities or others. And then finally, to get a case, you need a witness. You have to have a human being who dares to take the burden it is to tell you about what it is that you are exposed to – from the very beginning. I've described the dilemmas of that, but we want to do what we can to make those dilemmas bear for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e385	There will be two follow-up questions – first Heikki Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e388	If we're really going to deal with the problems of organized crime and trafficking in human beings, we depend on those who are bought and sold, namely the women, dare to go to the police, dare to reveal the well-organized criminals behind them. The crucial thing is that they have confidence in the police and that they have the opportunity to have a breathing room. In Italy, a temporary residence permit is granted to all those involved in the detection of the rearmen. It was nice that the Minister referred to the OSCE Special Mission, because it was one of the proposals he made, namely that it should be done so in Norway as well, that a greater degree of extended temporary residence permits should be granted to those involved in revealing the background. It is very easy to use the Foreign Affairs Act to send people out when we only give them 45 days of residence as a viewing time. The question then arises: is the Government going to follow up the OSCE's recommendation to introduce a temporary residence permit for those who are involved in revealing behind-the-scenes trafficking cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e397	First, we have to make sure that the 45 days we have are used and that they are used in a good way. We're set to do that. I know the situation in Italy. I've been studying it through my State Secretary. We've studied a number of countries. But at the end of the day, we are totally dependent on the fact that from the first moment, trust is established. If we learn in that process that we're going to do something more, we'll openly evaluate it. But we have to establish the trust in these matters. All the police working on this, they know this is hard. And to underline it, I've met a girl who came to me, with police protection, who was completely open about what she was exposed to, but who wasn't sure if she wanted to testify. And why? Shall we tell her that we give her the right to testify? Then we will be charged with having a preliminary trial in court. The reflection time is there to give the girls a chance to think about. Someone will then be helped to return to where they came from, others would like to stand still and take the risk from it. Then we're going to set them up. But that both the police and everyone who's concerned about this, do their utmost when they're working on these issues, I know. We're going to follow this. And besides, I'm glad with my whole heart that SV is now intensely involved in the fight against organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e406	Anne Helen Rui – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e409	I see that some police districts are able to do this job that we're all busy with. In Rogaland they have actively visited the prostitutes. They've been digging things up, and they've had ten convictions in the last few years. In Hordaland, there have been no convictions in the case of hallucinations, at all for the last eight years. No later than 24 September this year, Hordaland admits that it is not a priority area to work with. Then is my simple question: Will Dørum be so kind as to follow these districts, give them the skills they need, because I think that might be missing, especially when it comes to looking for the hallicians, and try to make it work in all the police districts? Because I don't believe in any Halliker in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e417	I am absolutely sure that both crime and sin are regularly distributed in this country, completely independent of geographical name. Hordaland police districts themselves have said that they have not done a good enough job, and they have told me that they will now start work on monitoring and entering the environment. The representative is quite right that this depends on how to build up local skills. This competence is being built up in different places, and then the police are gaining experience from the best places. The example from Rogaland is correct, and we have examples from Oslo. I am also pleased that this addresses the search for an important feature of police reform, namely the building of competences. Police build competence to meet organised crime. They're really good at it. They build skills to address these issues, which are very difficult and complex. Everyone who works with them knows that. But they're sincerely engaged in building the competence. I have read the posts of the police officer Refvik in the Official Journal of Bergen. It must well be seen as a self-knowing post, which concludes that they are going to do something about this, precisely because they believe they have not done enough to do so now. In this way, the involvement of both the representative and the Council of State has arrived.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e426	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e429	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. When the Storting considered the last long-term defence plan in June of this year, it was a unanimous defence committee that stressed that the cost of operating growth must be controlled and brought into line with that of the rest of the state. The Committee asked a number of questions to the Council of State on personnel costs and financial governance in the course of the process. Today we are told through the evening post that there is a secret report, presented about when we discussed this long-term plan. It beats, among other things, insists that overtime and additional pay systems and a number of other things ‘shooting in the weather’ mean that ‘defence accounts for 100 000 of the total state’s 300 000 hotel days’ in the year — understand it or not — and extreme use of consultants. Why was this report kept hidden from the Committee during the examination of the long-term plan? Does the Council of State defend the information that appears in the Evening Post today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e440	What is referred to by the respondent as a classified report is an internal working document for use in an ongoing process. Therefore, it is not a closed report that has any status to enable its contents to be used either by the Committee or others. It is an internal working document in an ongoing process. On the other hand, I am more than interested in addressing the issues raised in the evening post today. As the representative of Marit Nybakk is well known, we had during the treatment of St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004 with a strong emphasis on the challenge of the pay system from the Ministry. There are more than 1,000 pay codes in the Defence's pay system, i.e. different ways of calculating supplements. It's obvious that this large number of supplements and pay grades is inappropriate, and it's therefore a priority task to simplify the system. We say it so strongly in our letter to the Committee on 28 April that in some areas the pay system has clear dysfunctional features and in these areas is not adapted to the needs of the employer. This is why it is so important that, in addition to achieving the 2001–2005 migration targets that we reach both on the operating cost side, on the personnel side and on the sales side, we address what will be a major challenge in the future, from 2005 to 2008, namely to change the defence pay system. We have to get a pay system that is less supplementary, where the basic salary represents a higher share of the salary and the supplements a smaller share. Ideally, we would only have one salary, and then you would get a supplement when you were in a risky operation. But here comes the challenge, it has to be negotiated in agreement between the head of defence and the organisations, it cannot be adopted politically. Therefore, I have the same appeal to Marit Nybakk as I had to Carl I. Hagen, I am asking that the Chief of Defence get support in his important negotiating arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e447	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It seems that she intends to do something about this, which has been discussed between the Committee and the Council of State for a long time – although not as serious as what appears in the evening post today, nor that this report exists. The Council of State could not possibly defend the fact that the incentive supplements that were set up to hold absolutely necessary key personnel are also given to military personnel who at the same time receive the final package, that the Air War School in which it was to reorganise to save money was given a huge increase in the number of management positions, and that people taking out final packages are also hired as consultants. The question is whether the defense has developed a culture in which they have been able to scald and choose with public funds at their discretion, and you can wonder if we have to determine the number of colonists in the Storting, otherwise we will end up with just generals in this system. When is the Ministry going to take seriously that the defence economy must also be under political control?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e454	First of all, people who take out final packages cannot at the same time be hired as consultants. The cases where this was discovered, quite a few years ago, led to an effective stop to it. So that's not allowed. As far as the level of degrees is concerned, the situation is that we are now running and strongly downpouring at the level of leadership in the defense, and we have set up a departmental command category just to do something about the degree structure in the defense and avoid that, as Marit Nybakk says, it is too many generals. I would also like to say that in terms of appointments from tops and tops, we have control of that in the Ministry of Defence. What has been a challenge is the colonel lieutenant level. It's not up to the Ministry of Defence. But with the opportunity that lies in the departmental order, we can get the degree structure that we all want. So, as far as the appendices are concerned, they are negotiated in agreements between the organisations and the head of defence. There was a break in the adjustment negotiations in ours just when it came to making a trial project in some departments with a different pay system – but here we also need the Stortingen's clear support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e465	There will be three follow-up questions – first Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e468	I want to ask follow-up questions to the Minister of Finance. There are many sectors that need money, and there are too few places. But when we read in the Evening Post today about the Defense, many may think that there is not good enough economic governance there – and that needs to be done in the Defense. I'd like to point out what a co-conspirator's defense committee said in June of this year: ‘The Committee will further request that the budgetary discipline and accounting functions be brought into line with the Financial Regulation of the State.’;» The fact that Stortinget says this to the department is itself an alarming fact. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Does the Minister of Finance think that the economic governance of Defence is good, or should the financial procedures be changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e484	There has never been better economic governance in the Defense than under this State Council. Now I haven't been sitting for too many years as a finance minister, but I have to say that some of what I discovered when I came to the department was that there have been changes. Any department is still under way — it may not be appropriate here to use the term ‘monitoring’ — supervision by the Ministry of Finance in respect of compliance with the State’s financial regulations. Of course, this also applies to the defense. However, as this round of questions has proved, part of public sector governance has also left negotiations between organisations. There I think you should go back a little bit in time to find the reasons for a maybe a little bit of roughness.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e491	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e494	I think we're going back to the Minister of Defense. The defense has a very long history of irresponsible use of money. The Minister of Defence says that today, in the evening post, reference is made to an unfinished report, which has no status. This is in direct contradiction with what is mentioned in the Evening Post today. I would challenge the Minister of Defence as follows: According to the Evening Post, this report was meant for publication when it was kept secret in June. This was in the middle of the interview on the long-term proposition for the defense here in Stortinget. The question to the Council of State is, who made the decision that this report should be kept secret, and when was this decision taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e502	This is not a classified report, this is an internal working document. There is nothing in the mandate, which I have checked today, that this should end in a report to be published. I have just finished reading the mandate with that in mind. The term of office is the basis for a new pay system in Defence. There must therefore be an input into the negotiations with, among other things, the Head of Defense, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Modernisation. organisations to establish a new Defence Paying System. The problem was addressed both in St.prp. No 42 March and by letter to the Committee on 28 April. We have a payroll system that is beyond dysfunctional in relation to the tasks the defense has to solve. I find it strange that three parties have now taken the floor in this case, but no one has recognised that this is with the social partners, and that the defence manager needs backing to do something about the problem – namely that an activity-based defence provides very high pay supplements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e509	I understand that this is an internal report. Thus, the size should not be made aware that all savings on wages from 2000 to 2002 have gone straight to overtime and consultants. The size shall not be reported to indicate that the supplement has been used in breach of the legislation. The complaint shall not be informed that the defence accounts for one third of the country's travel day in a year. The size should not be informed that the number of senior officers has increased dramatically in the last two years. Nothing of this will be informed by Stortinget, because this was an internal report. The problem for the Council of State is that this merges into a series of financial exceedances and a lack of economic governance in the defence process. The question will be quite simply: When will the Storting get access to the information that the Evening Post is holding today, in a secret way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e518	The issues raised by the representative Arnstad, I think that is a very good reason to go into, not least in the budgetary process we have ahead of us. There are good answers to many of the issues raised. In the case of the degree inflation referred to, the measure with the Title Command is a measure to remedy it. In the case of travel, much of the increase in travel activity is due to transport to and from international operations. We also need to increase the job category for those we are going to have in NATO positions. So there are a number of good answers to several of the issues that are raised. But this internal working document had as a mole to point to things that were important to change the pay system of the Defense. That is why I am willing to address this problem both here and in the future budgetary process. It is not right that you can get a final package, get a departure plug-in and be hired as a consultant. It's stopped. The point is: all these themes can be addressed, but not by providing internal working documents that do not have the status and circumstance required.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e529	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e532	I have a main question to ask the Minister of Defence. As I mentioned in my follow-up question, this goes into a number of issues that indicate a lack of control in the ministry, in the government and at the state council regarding financial management related to the ongoing conversion of defence. I record that this is going to be largely known to the Stortinget through sourced headlines in the newspapers, rather than being briefed by the ministry and government. But let me point out a few other points, which are also a source of concern about the financial management of the Defence. One concerns the accounting procedures of the Defence, which are strongly criticised by the National Audit Office, at the latest this summer. The second is the fact that in the defense now there are bills that have been in excess of one month after maturity, of tens of millions of dollars. The third is the current Gulf Programme, which we in Stortinget have not been informed about how much has cost, but which we have been told through sources in the newspapers that so far has cost 800 million. NOK, and that the total bill can now amount to NOK 2 billion. Does the State Council feel that she has a sound control over the financial management of the Defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e541	At any rate, I would like to emphasise at the outset what the Minister of Finance said: the control of the defence economy has never been more stringent. For a number of years, the accounting system of the defence was not in line with the financial regulations of the State. It was pointed out this year after year. Therefore, in 2003, the accounting system changed, and therefore, of course, transitional problems were also encountered. When you take 80 different accounts and add them to one, you discover, among other things, everything that wasn't agreed in previous years, because for the first time you get a chance to reconcile them. The introduction of a new accounting system was an incredibly important step, precisely to gain control of the defence accounts and the economy, and it took place in 2003. As far as the Project Golf is concerned, it has been dealt with several times in this room. There is a clear majority of the government parties and the Labour Party that are for the way the project is divided into – in individual projects instead of a large pool project – which thus does not allow for a final sum for the project, but which has given far better management of the project along the way. With regard to other issues related to defence financial management, there was a very good debate on 11 March 2003 in Stortinget. There it was underlined by me that I consider the Riksrevision to be a very important co-player, just to be able to point out the areas in which we need to improve. I have also reported in the defence budget for the current year that we set of 10 million. kr for internal enhancement of competence, precisely to ensure that individual staff required to report the data to those accounting systems are given the necessary competence and assistance. So I want to repeat: that we can actually save $2 billion on the defence operating budgets and give it over to investment, that we can actually free up operating costs at the buildings, it shows that we have far better control than in a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e557	I record that the Council of State still does not intend to publish that report. One of the conclusions of the report is that this is where jobs disappear – but not the tasks to be solved. Then you use overtime and consultants to do the problems that have not been removed. But we in Stortinget don't get access to the report, it's the papers that are sitting on it. I could have mentioned several examples – I could have mentioned the Coast Guard and their radars, but I've concentrated on the Gulf Program. I would like the Council of State to cancel here and now that the Gulf Programme is going to cost between $1 1/2 and $2 billion. I would like to have a cancellation here and now in Stortinget from the Council of State at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e564	Of course, there is no logical answer to that question, precisely because the Gulf project is divided into different phases – phase 1 and phase 2: delivery project 1 and delivery project 2. Giving a final sum before you have defined the project at all is, of course, very little appropriate. And that the representative knows well, because it was a majority of the government parties and the Workers' Party, started at the previous Council of State Godal, who just split up the Golf project that way. I would like to stress that having a large IT conversion project where there was a final sum set from the start increases the chances of cracking along the way. That is why the previous State Council divided the project – and I fully supported him and followed him up – into phases, so that each project becomes smaller, more transparent and at lower risk. But that also means, of course, that giving a final sum to the entire project, to the stage we have not yet taken a decision, it becomes meaningless. There have been many debates in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e569	There will be three follow-up questions – first Eirin Fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e572	When Stortinget treated St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004, it was decided that the technical workshop should be located in Rena clay. I have registered that the state council was at Rena yesterday and visited Europe's most beautiful camp, with all the great technical equipment that is there. Now, however, it is the case that the FLO, the FLO, has created some confusion, because now they say that this technical workshop, which is completely tipped-off, should be moved to Trandum. That means that heavy quantities of defence equipment have to be moved 17 and 1/2 miles on bad roads, because there is not one penny added to repair the road network on this route. What will the Council of State – because it is the Council of State that has the financial responsibility of the Defence – do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e579	The Defence Logistics Organisation is currently investigating what will become the new organisation. The investigation project will be ongoing until New Year, and weekly meetings with the trade unions will be held to try to arrive at a agreed solution to the organisation chart for the FLO. The recording I made at Rena yesterday, it was that if the Army has special wishes that use and as a customer of the FLO for which workshops are to be carried on, and which workshops are to be closed, it is very important that the needs are notified from the user to the ongoing investigation work. So no decision has been made, and I think that the greatest possibility of getting a reasonable solution is precisely if the user in the army, sea and air gives a clear advice to the FLO, to the logistics organization, about where they want their workshops. Here you have to choose between different workshops: put one down and do not put the other down. But I think the process has to go its own way, without us overrideing it from the top of an ongoing work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e585	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e588	The defense has a very long history of irresponsible use of money, and it continues here today. The report mentioned in the Evening Post today describes a number of areas where expenditure growth is enormous, both in terms of overtime and supplementation, hidden wage growth, misuse of trust. In addition, according to the Aftenposte “Raus allocation of budgetary resources” and a defense that spends 100 000 days a year in hotels, the report shows of the total of the state’s 300 000 hotel days. I would like to ask the Council of State whether this report contains indications of proposals for measures that could reduce defence expenditure, not just on pay issues, and ask for answers that could benefit the Defence Committee as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e593	I see it as a little pointless to refer here to an internal working document. But what I can say is that the mandate for the internal working document is to provide a basis for negotiating a new pay system. So it is not a mandate to solve the same and different issues that have been mentioned in this Chamber today, it is a mandate to create a basis for negotiating a new pay system. And whoever's going to negotiate the new pay system, that's the head of defense, with the support of the Ministry of Defence and with the support of the Ministry of Modernization. And it went so far in the spring that there was actually a break in the negotiations in the adjustment settlement for the state in an attempt to allow some departments out in the defense to try another pay system, where more was like fixed pay, and less was as an addition. These are now required in a dispute resolution to negotiate further out the year to see if they can find a solution. So there is ongoing work between the parties, and what we need here is support for the need for a new reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e598	The Council of State has not acted at any time until the time of the speech. Per Ove Wide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e603	After all, the Gulf Program, which Arnstad's representative initiated, is designed to modernise the defense. And then I just have to ask: does the Council of State think that the reorganisation and modernisation of the defence is going as planned, and does she feel that she has full control? The Minister of Finance is right to say that control has never been more stringent, but I do not know if it is by the Council of State or the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e608	I believe that, from the Ministry of Finance's point of view, there is little difference between the two questions. I can be quite clear to the representative, Width, that the transition is on track. We are likely to achieve a greater operating savings than the 2 billion kroner that we are charged in relation to 2002. We're probably going to be able to sell more building mass than the 2 million. m2 we're charged, and we're counting on reaching the downtime target of 5,000. It is the adopted conversion targets for the period 2001-2005. Then we have a new period, 2005-2008. There is a pre-requisite that the compensation of employees in the defence should not be higher than in the other country. In order to make that assumption, we have to have a new pay system, but it can't be decided either by this government council or by the rest of the population, because it has to be negotiated between the parties. And if the parties fail, it will be the activity that suffers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e618	Then we go to the last main question, but there's no time for any additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e621	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. After all, the Minister of Justice is in Britain for some time to debate, and we are debating, among other things. housing queues and housing conditions. This week there has been a notice in Dagbladet about a person who has been convicted of the rape of minors, and where the court has said that there is a risk of repetition. Nevertheless, this person moves freely around. I record that employees in the department have said that we should not have it like that, and the minister himself has already confirmed that it should not be so. Those who have been convicted of gross crime shall enter into the atoning of all first. I think this is very worrying, and it gives a signal that our system is not good enough. And as I said, when the minister has a desire and a vision to have a great degree of credibility, we can't afford such events. My question then becomes simple: What action will the Minister of Justice take to prevent something similar from happening afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e630	The matter is actually well-lit in many ways in Dagbladet, both yesterday and today. It is clear that there has been no time to go, from the moment a judicial judgment is passed and until the criminal justice system implements it. We do not have a storage queue, and the representative and I agree that we should not have such a situation as this. Here there is no lack of laws or rules, but that is not good enough practice. Therefore, we intend to use the case as a ‘case’ to review the practice on the basis that what is to be notified is to be notified quickly and incessantly. This concerns the relationship from the moment a sentence is enforceable, until the police move on to the Criminal Service, and until the Criminal Service implements it. That's what the lesson is. That lesson has been emphatically expressed on my behalf by my State Secretary in the Newspaper today, for the representative and I share the view that when you face this type of crime, it upsets us all. There's no doubt that even when it's about custody, and we have safe havens on Ila, we're going to use those places. So the answer is that we're going to review the practice we have, so we can be sure that we don't get in those situations. When we get a thing like this in such a transparent society as ours – and it's good that it's transparent – we learn from it, and we're going to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e637	I thank you for the answer in the first place. At the same time, it must be a challenge for the Minister of Justice when he says that we should not have it this way, we have capacity, when it is a fact that the Minister of Justice on behalf of this government wants to give greater penalties to people convicted of serious crime in this country. For the current year, with the support of the Workers' Party, the Government introduced an additional penalty rebate to reduce the pay queue – that is why – and for the next year, the Government proposes a strengthening of this. Isn't the Minister of Justice worried about how it's being perceived out there, not least among the relatives in this kind of case, by police officials, by the courts and by the criminal services, who want to do a job to make sure that people actually get the punishment they deserve? Or is this a form of left-wing action to be competitive towards the electoral mass of the Christian People's Party among the prisoners? It's a paradox for some of us that we have this kind of approach. I am aware that the Minister of Justice belongs to a liberal party, but that must be a way of liberalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e644	That's an interesting situation. In one moment I'm too kind, and in the other moment I'm too tough. That means I like it well as a left-hand man. I'm neither on the soft-soft line nor on the tough-thick line; I'm hard on the hard ones, soft on the soft ones, nice on the nice ones and bad on the bad ones. Everybody knows it's like that. Here you should not interfere with the custody case, because it is unambiguously correct. There must be a strong response. The penalty discount applies to much less serious situations, and it has one purpose: to make people get in quickly. And it works. Reconciliation queues are decreasing – the representative can probably rejoice with me – and this will also increase legal certainty in this society. But it's clear that in the most serious cases, they're not being paroled. The representative's concerns in this specific matter are a matter that I share. And then it's like I'm not the Regional Director of Crime, I'm not the prison director. We don't have that type of system. But luckily, Norway is a country where things that are transparent come up to everyone’s attention. It often leads to healthy and good social reflections. Governments can operate with both silent and loud relaxation, as it is called, in many contexts, and I will do so in the first case. So to be a left-hand man: I'm doing good, I'm doing good, with the progress party on one side and the SV on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e654	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e660	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Culture and the Church, will be taken up by the representative Johnny Hult. Question 15, from the representative Heidi Grande Røys to the Minister for Transport, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 16, from the representative of Vidar Bjørnstad to the Minister for Defence, will be raised by the representative Sverre Myrli. Question 17, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e678	‘Eight years of a yielding attitude towards the regime in Iran have only led to a deterioration in human rights and the conditions of the opposition. What is Norway’s position on this development, and what is Norway doing to improve human rights and the conditions of the opposition within and outside the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e685	For a period from the election of President Khatami in 1997 to around 2003, a gradual — but clear — improvement in the human rights situation in Iran could be seen. Democratic developments in the country were also positive. From the Norwegian side, we tried to support the positive development by repeatedly expressing our clear support for the reform forces in the country. The development of the last year has given rise to a number of concerns. The February Parliamentary elections were concerned with major shortcomings and represented a step backwards for democratic development in the country. The Security Council has confirmed its position, and the former reform-oriented national assembly is now dominated by conservative forces working closely with the country's non-governmental religious leadership. We are concerned about this development and regret that the reform forces do not have a freer leeway. Iran’s political leadership has repeatedly been made aware of Norway’s views on this issue. At the same time, we are witnessing a narrowing of both general personal freedom and, not least, women's rights. We have also seen that a criminal law practice that needs to be described as inhuman remains. Several cases of death sentences against minors have recently given particular cause for concern. A 16-year-old cock was executed by hanging in August, and at least five other cases in which the death penalty has been imposed against persons who were minors when the convicted conditions occurred. This is totally unacceptable and contrary to Iran's international obligations. The government has raised the human rights situation in Iran with its authorities on a number of occasions, both in general and in individual cases. We also keep in touch with other countries to see how we can best influence development. No later than August Norway joined an EU démarche on the death penalty. I continuously assess how Norway can influence the situation of human rights and democracy in Iran in the most effective way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e703	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good answer. It is very reassuring to see that the Norwegian authorities address this on any occasion. I am also pleased that the Foreign Minister particularly values both democracy and women's rights. During the week that passed, we were told that a 14-year-old girl was sentenced to stoning in Iran because of sexual relations she should have had. I just want to make sure that, in the future, the Council of State will take every opportunity to point out to the Iranian authorities the failure of the development of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e712	I can confirm that Norway will continue to be active in these kinds of questions. I know that Stortinget follows closely what we are doing, and I have answered written questions from Stortinget about these very regrettable and dramatic issues. Of course, we're going to keep showing commitment in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e723	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘A woman from Thailand may be separated from a spinster from Laukvik in Lofoten because, according to UDI, he is unable to support his wife. In its rejection of the application for a work permit, the UDI has concluded that the fisherman does not have sufficient income to support her. Does this mean that fishermen, who have variable incomes, are to be blacklisted as spouses of foreigners, and is it an example of good practice by the UDI?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e732	When examining applications for family reunification, it is irrelevant which profession the person with whom family reunification is sought has. Foreigners’ legislation does not provide for specific provisions on family reunification with fishermen or other specific occupational groups. On the other hand, there are rules on dependability, which are also in line with the law of the Stortinget in the past. Maintenance must be ensured for the period covered by the application. A family reunification permit is normally granted for one year at a time. This means that it is necessary to demonstrate that the applicant is guaranteed a one-year maintenance period, i.e. that the person who marries can support his/her spouse in the coming year in order for the authorisation to be granted. The minimum level has been harmonised with the level of social assistance provided by Norway. The amount is linked to salary level 1 in the national wage regulation, which implies that you must have a dependability of 167 500 kroner per year. It is therefore not essential whether the income varies, but that it can be demonstrated that the total income for the year for which the application is submitted corresponds to at least step 1. The fact that the level of income varies, for example: From month to month, therefore, it will not exclude that the application for family reunification can be granted, but it is therefore necessary to reach the minimum level, NOK 167 500, and to make it probable in the context of an application for residence in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e741	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I do not expect individual cases to be dealt with in this Chamber. But it's a little strange: in this case, this woman from Thailand has to be different from the fisherman in Lofoten because he doesn't have enough income. It's a well-known case, also for UDI, I assume, that fishermen don't have fixed income, but depend on what nature has to give, and the quota that they have. Has it been assessed by the case handler in UDI?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e750	Based on the management instructions on the foreign field that exist and are given by Stortinget in the form of law, I cannot go in and say what has been assessed by the individual case handler in individual matters, which I do not have the opportunity to influence or enter into. But the legislation is clear: you need a minimum income of NOK 167 500 in order to be able to support your spouse and get permission for family reunification in Norway and stay. And it's completely independent of whether the income varies or not. It is a matter of not getting foreign spouses to Norway where public authorities and the rest of the Norwegian community are required to finance the maintenance of their lives. That's why it's set like this, and it's in line with the law. What is needed is to be able to reach that level, and this must be done in the documents sent to the UDI. It is not appropriate to have other rules for fishermen or other self-employed workers in this type of context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e759	I thank you again for the answer. I conclude that the fisherman in Laukvik must differ from his wife, who is from Thailand. The council had the chance here in this room to give a confirmation that that is not the case, but I conclude that they have to differ. Right had a chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e766	There is a difference between being divorced and not having a stay in Norway. It is fully possible to be married and not live in Norway. The question of family reunification is then a question of which country you live in, and it is not a question of whether you should be divorced or not. The question of whether you can support your spouse is a fundamental question, which is thus included in the Norwegian law and adopted by the Norwegian Grand Duchy. It is a principle that we have also tried to tighten up in recent years, precisely because in an increasingly multicultural society – more and more people are travelling here – it is important that most of those who come here and who do not have protection are actually not the responsibility of the public, but the responsibility of the families.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e777	‘The Youth Organisation Juvente has carried out checks that have revealed that alcoholic beverages are readily purchased by minors in many shops, even half of the shops sold alcohol illegally. Beer is the youth’s main drug source. Young people’s drug consumption is increasing. Much of the crime is committed in alcohol intoxication. What will the Government do to stop shops selling alcohol to minors, and how to ensure effective control?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e784	The overall objective is to reduce the harm caused by alcohol consumption. In order to achieve this goal, raising the initial age of alcohol is not least important. These objectives are also reflected in the Government’s action plan on drug problems 2003–05. One of the measures to achieve the objective of raising the initial age of alcohol is to improve control of the licensing system in order to prevent the sale and donation of minors. The aim of the municipal licensing system for the sale and donation of alcoholic beverages is to help achieve the national targets set for alcohol policy. At the same time, it shall provide room for municipal alcohol policy judgement and local adaptation. An important instrument of alcohol policy is the control of the exercise of sales and donations. If we are to reduce the illicit circulation of alcohol, good coordination of control measures is required nationally and locally and effectively responses involving the illicit sale of alcohol, etc. One of the measures of the Government’s action plan is to review the acquis for the control of local authorities in the exercise of sales and donations. In this context, the Government has launched several measures to achieve these objectives: According to the Alcohol Act § 1-7d, municipalities are obliged to draw up an alcohol policy action plan. This should include, inter alia: control measures are suspended. A few years ago, the Ministry developed a municipal drug policy counsellor. I have entrusted the Social and Health Directorate with the task of revising the existing supervisor, where even greater attention will be paid to the local authority's actions, including control measures. The alcohol policy action plan must ensure that alcohol policy is put on the agenda in all the municipalities of the country. The revised guide will be a tool for municipalities. This year, the government has made several proposals for changes to the alcohol law of Ot.prp. No 86 for 2003-2004 which will help prevent the illicit sale of alcohol to minors. For example, improved good repute will help to make it easier for municipalities to prevent those who are not suitable for it from being placed on the market with alcoholic beverages. Furthermore, we propose a number of changes that are specifically linked to local authority control over the exercise of appropriations. These must be seen in the context of the fact that in the bill it is also announced that we will follow up the changes in the law with a revision of the regulations on the control of the municipality. The aim is to amend the regulations so as to facilitate better localised control, while ensuring effective control. I would like to emphasise that the regulations are designed so that municipalities can prioritize the use of their resources where the verification needs are greatest. Then I will also be informed that the Social and Health Directorate will launch tomorrow an alcohol campaign that will focus on some of the most important and effective instruments in Norwegian alcohol policy. Age limits are one of the instruments that will focus on in the campaign. In the context of the campaign, the Social and Health Directorate will send information material to all municipalities in the country and provide guidance and incentives for increased control of sales and donations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e797	I thank you for your answer. I think we can say that there is a great deal of agreement on many of the goals outlined by the Government, both in action plans and to the extent that the response reached. It is a paradox that in the case of youth drug use, which the growth generation is particularly concerned about, too, when we are going to fight crime and social problems, we tend to talk more and more about the illegal goods, against which we have very strict sanctions, and against which we can put people in prison to both use and buy, while in many ways what really constitutes much of the basis in relation to the consumption of drugs by young people, is actually what you buy in the grocery stores, that's what constitutes most of the drug consumption by young people. It has Juvente repeatedly pointed out, which is very commendable. It is also at the bottom of recruiting for drug use. So there's a reason to take this seriously. I want to challenge the Minister in relation to the question of whether it is not time to make the sanctions more stringent on those who violate these rules, that we not only come up with plans and information, but that we actually make the reaction more stringent?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e808	Let me point out that I fully agree with the representative of Storberget that it is necessary to focus more on the use of alcohol by young people. It also needs to be seen in the context of the drinking pattern and the alcohol habits of the population as a whole, which are most likely to influence the picture. I believe that the most important thing we can do from the centre in terms of the responsibilities of the municipalities in the licensing and sales system is to ensure that the municipalities have a good and targeted regulatory framework to deal with, and to ensure that they have the opportunity to prioritize their control responsibilities towards where the control needs are greatest in each municipality. It is a clear objective of the legislative changes that are now being dealt with in Stortinget, and the regulatory work that I will put into practice in a short time, that the municipalities should have such a reinforced tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e815	In addition to the cost-effective work done by the Government in relation to the charging issue, availability and what is now seen in relation to the control mechanisms of the grocery stores and the tipping points, perhaps one of the most important drug policy issues we face, is that in Norway, over the past 10 to 20 years, alcohol policy has actually been liberalised considerably, by increasing accessibility, insofar as this is independent of the political colour of the government. I think we should be able to admit that. It is in this situation that I believe that more should be done to look at the credo, that an appropriation should be easy to get and easy to lose, and that, in fact, more stringent should be done when breaking the rules that we are faced with here, that we must actually become a little tougher in the fight against this. The second thing Juvente may also experience as a problem is that it is not so easy for public actors to control the maintenance of age limits. Does the Minister have any new proposals on how to exercise such effective control over age?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e822	In my main response, I mentioned some of the elements contained in the proposal that Stortinget is dealing with, and I will consider further elements of the regulatory work in relation to the intention that I fully share with the representative Storberget, that it is desirable to have a more rigorous control of practices in this area, and also to have a stronger response. Since the representative Storberget initially mentioned a paradox, let me say that I agree that there are charges, availability and regulation of what are the most effective alcohol policy instruments. That is why I think it is paradoxical that the representative of Storberget's party traps in the debate in the last few days have addressed drastic tax cuts in Norway. It would be to order more of the problems that both the representative Storberget and I are busy reducing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e833	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘A series of articles in the Official Journal of Bergen has shown that the Hordaland Police Chamber has completely deprioritised investigations into the activities of indigenous persons and trafficking in Eastern European women in the Bergens area. These activities are carried out without intervention from the police, despite the signals previously given by the Ministry to give priority to such matters. What will the Council of State do to ensure that investigations into trafficking in women in Hordaland are prioritised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e842	Let me begin by stressing that trafficking in human beings is a serious criminal act, which is to be given high priority in the police and in the judiciary. I have therefore taken a number of measures to strengthen the efforts of police and prosecution authorities to combat trafficking in human beings. In the implementation of the Action Plan against trafficking in women and children, I have first given priority to providing the police with information and an overview of this type of crime. [[2003-2005]] In January 2004, we therefore established a national monitoring project in Kripos. The survey shows that the police have been involved in 42 cases where trafficking in human beings is suspected, and 36 cases with foreign branches this year. Kripos assume that until now they've just mapped the top of the iceberg. Five police districts and CATCH are now working to translate the information and knowledge for use in criminal matters. To date, three criminal cases have been established in respect of which the human trafficking clause, § 224, is applied. One of the cases concerns 124 people who live in 21 countries. The project in Kripos has led to an increasing exchange of information between Norwegian and foreign police. International cooperation provides important information on criminals responsible for trafficking in human beings in Norway and on the profits generated. As part of raising the quality of investigation and prosecution, the Directorate of Police is developing a manual on trafficking in human beings for police districts. The police directorate has also produced an action card for the first line of police. A seminar and several thematic days have been held to strengthen police competence. In 2005, the Police Directorate will organise regional meetings and training seminars. The police directorate reports that Hordaland police districts have implemented measures to monitor organised prostitution and infirmity in their districts. Hordaland Police Districts will also start investigations into specific criminal cases, and are in the process of establishing cooperation with other police districts, Kripos and other public and private businesses, in order to ensure and protect victims of trafficking in human beings and to investigate backers. With increased resources and the establishment of New Kripos, the police will be even stronger in the fight against trafficking in women and children in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e857	I thank you for the answer, but I think it went a little bit into the situation in Hordaland. We have a situation where some police districts can point to very good results, while others, like Hordaland, cannot point to results at all. It admits to the local press that there is no overview of the scope of trafficking, trafficking in human beings, while journalists in the local press have shown on several occasions that this trade is transparent and can be rolled up. The question then is, how is it possible that there might be such a difference between the results in different police districts? How is it possible that the clear messages that have come include: Mr. Stortinget's spokesman from the Minister of Justice himself, obviously being ignored by the Hordaland police district? And should not the Minister of Justice now show that this is not something to be found in, and take a clear initiative against this police district when it has such poor results to point to?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e866	Now, Hordaland doesn't run the police district badly. But it is true that there are irregularities between the police districts, as emerged in the spontaneous question hour, regarding these kinds of very difficult issues. The police officer Refvik himself described in a broad article in Bergen's Official Journal what they have done, but also said what they have not done, and admitted that they have done too little, and also said in the article that they will do more. I am very specific in my reply to the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken. I'll repeat it for sure: ‘The Directorate of Police informs that the police district of Hordaland has taken action to monitor organised prostitution and infirmity in its district. Hordaland Police Districts shall also undertake investigations in specific criminal matters, and are in the process of establishing cooperation with other police districts, Kripos and other public and private businesses, in order to ensure and protect victims of trafficking in human beings and to investigate backers.» I have read Refvik’s article in Bergen’s Official Journal – I read the regional press in Norway – and I think it is a recognition that they could do more and will now do something about it. In my opinion, it is a very precise and clear statement of what Hordaland police district will do with the challenge that Bjørlo Lysbakken has presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e878	I agree that the measures read out by the Minister of Justice are important measures, and that if they are put into action, it should mean improving the situation in Hordaland. The problem is that the police themselves have admitted that they have no overview. In fact, in an interview with Bergen’s Official Journal, Commissioner Refvik said the following: ‘There are at least far more such women in Oslo than here — if there are any at all.’ I'm sure the Minister of Justice agrees with me that it's a rather embarrassing statement, all the time it's pretty obvious that this kind of human trafficking is also going on in Bergen. Unfortunately, we are not apprehensive about the crime of the world and other humiliating things in Bergen either! I think the Minister of Justice will remember that we were here two years ago. And then we had the exact same question up here. The Minister of Justice answered in a commendable and clear manner and said that he would take the initiative to improve the situation in Hordaland. So nothing has happened in the meantime. How can the Minister of Justice now be sure that this time Hordaland Police Chamber will take the signal and actually implement the measures he has mentioned here?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e890	It is the duty of any major representative to be engaged in his district. A Minister of Justice is not a police officer in Hordaland, not a police officer in Oslo, not a police officer in the South Trondelag and not a police director. I have to get the tools and make sure – as far as I can – that the station management being exercised increases competence. I have therefore, in my first answer, explained how the upgrading of competence takes place. What often happens in the police is that the good practice that establishes itself in a place is contagious. What has been the result of the public debate – and the public debate is always an important debate – has been that Commissioner Refvik has said that we have done too little; we should do something about it. That's the safest answer to that. He's an effective man, this Refvik, and when the Police Directorate confirms what they're doing, it's the clearest expression I can give in the main hall for something to happen. But of course – I travel around and visit people, and I have the ability to speak as well. Then I get to drive it my way when I go around the country. As I said, reading the Norwegian regional press gives me very much insight and joy, and also the articles where the police themselves go out and are open. I think the police officer here is affordable and self-recognising, and then he says that now he's going to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e902	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Culture and the Church, is raised by the representative Johnny Hult.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e905	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘In connection with the construction of the documentation and dissemination centre for the culture and history of the Roma people at the Glomdal Museum in Elverum, art/decoration shall be purchased in accordance with the legislation of the State. Does it not appear that the Council of State could grant a derogation from the rule in this special project, so that the funds were used for the purchase of the exhibition for and with those to be represented by the exhibition, in order to show their history in an even wider area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e914	Embellishment of public buildings gives people the most opportunity to experience art in the community. The public building decoration fund, which is the state's trades union body for art in public spaces, has, over the 27 years the fund has worked, added great values to society in the form of works of art in cities and districts throughout the country. The current decoration scheme for state-owned buildings, to which the Glomdal Museum construction project falls, was introduced in 1998, and it has helped to achieve more than 50 decoration projects over the last six years. This has resulted in over 400 works of art under this scheme. The scheme ensures that means of decoration are automatically incorporated into the cost framework of the individual state building project, both in the case of new buildings and alterations, and systems for art becoming a natural part of public building and space. The question of the decoration of art museums and cultural buildings comes up for discussion at regular intervals. The need for the decoration of the art museum was discussed by the Ministry of Culture and the Church Department and the Ornamental Fund in the context of the evaluation carried out by the Ornamental Foundation for State Buildings. It may be tempting to consider the alternative use of equipment that is devoted to decoration, as it can be claimed that the mouse itself disposes of objects that can meet this need, or that a mere means of decorating is used to expand and strengthen a limited exhibition budget. In my view, with such an alternative use of the funds, we risk weakening the current decoration scheme for state-owned buildings. This is an arrangement with which we have positive experiences, and with which the Ministry of Culture and the Church has recommended it is carried forward according to today's model. The Ornamental Fund currently has several highly profiled cultural buildings that include decoration, such as Nobels Fredssenter, Eidsvoll 1814 – the National Political Centre and the Villa Grande. These three decorative projects have proved to be good processes with positive user involvement. Leiinga at the Glomdalsmuseet will have a self-reliance both professionally and in budgetary terms when it comes to documentation and communication of the culture and history of the Romani people. This is part of the mouse core activity and must be preserved in the best possible way. In such cultural buildings as the Glomdals Museum, one should also be able to interact with the museum's core area, exhibition and decoration so that the dissemination of culture to the Roman people is further enhanced. A successful decoration that is developed in consultation with the users will allow you to deepen the mouse's functionality and make it clearer in the exhibition. I hope one will achieve this by the decoration of the Glomdal Museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e933	I thank you for your answer. It sounds very positive immediately. The Roman people have their own artisans, sculptors and art painters who are recognized, perhaps not to the extent that they are represented here, but at least so competent that it would be nice to decorate that museum. I hope it will be as the minister says, that we can work together here and try to find solutions that make the artists here represented a part of the Romani people – not necessarily as part of the exhibition, but that they come from the culture of the Romani people in terms of art.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e942	Does the Council of State want a comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e945	I have nothing else to add but that I also hope that there will be a good cooperation. It applies to all of these buildings. But when it comes to going outside the law, I think most of the buildings will find some reason why they should also go outside the law, and then we'll weaken the whole idea with a decoration fund and what's automatically incorporated into the budget. So I hope that we will come up with a good solution, so that it will be a great museum for everyone, and of course also for those who are most involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e955	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘The crisis centre in Bergen does not have the economy to stay open 24 hours in December. Due to the failure of income from municipalities, they will have a deficit of approximately NOK 200000. The only way to balance is to keep the center closed all December. What will the Council of State do with this in order to follow up what has been said by the majority of the population that no centre should be closed because of the economy until we have a new financial instrument in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e964	The average growth rate in nominal figures in the budgets of crisis centres from 2003 to 2004 is well above 7 pst. according to the provisional figures of the department. It means a slightly lower growth than last year, but I'm still happy with the development. As the representative knows, the guidelines are that the State grant is to be triggered by a corresponding local grant and a balanced budget. These guidelines have not been proposed by the bulk population. The change that the majority accepted, right from next year, was an increase in the state subsidy from 50 pst. to 80 pst. This has been loyally followed up in our 2005 state budget proposal. As a special scheme for 2004, precisely in order to better secure centres that go beyond the economy, the year’s circular opened up the possibility to apply for additional State grants by 1 September this year if the centre activities during the spring and summer received additional local grants that had not been included in the original application. On the basis of such an application, the Bergen Crisis Centre was promised a State additional grant of NOK 50000 as late as the end of September under this scheme. The allocation was triggered by a further allocation from the municipality of Bergen. According to the Ministry's information, this means that the crisis centre in Bergen now has a budget for 2004 which is approximately 300000 kr larger than the 2003 budget. However, how operations are specifically organised to balance, the Ministry cannot interfere, as the State Grant Guidelines have been designed. I see, however, that it is important that the Centre keeps open throughout the year and especially in December, which is a month how many need this offer. What I can therefore promise is that the department in this transitional year is willing to show flexibility and disregard from 1 September as a last deadline for applying for additional grants, and grant state grants equivalent to increased local grants if the crisis centre in Bergen is given increased local support from the municipality of Bergen and/or from the other 18 communities that also provide support for this centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e977	The application from the crisis centre in Bergen was well higher than the 50 000 kroner they were granted. The problem with the government council now points out is that when the municipalities do not grant, it does not trigger an increase in state subsidies. What the Committee has clearly said is that we are asking the Government to look at immediate measures in view of the difficult economic situation in which many crisis centres are located. What's the problem around the country – and that's what the council knows, this is a question I've raised several times, we've also had closed centers before – the poor community economy makes municipalities not give money to crisis centres, and there are also crisis centres that are shut down during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e982	I would like to make it clear that there are no failed incomes from the municipalities, as the representative here talks about, which have been the starting point. In fact, the total contribution of municipalities to the operation of this centre has increased from approx. $1.9 million. kr to approx. 2.1 million. kr from last year to this year. As regards the municipal grants, Bergen and 18 municipalities around have granted grants in 2004, against 17 municipalities in addition to Bergen in 2003. Everyone has increased their contribution, except for four municipalities that have given the same nominal amount as in 2003, and there is one municipality that has reduced its contribution. When the crisis centre describes its economic situation, they talk about the municipalities having granted reduced amounts compared to the centre applied for. It's something other than that you have reduced support. But we have a system that I as the Council of State have to deal with as well. So we have 18 municipalities outside of Bergen. They may request grants. We don't know if they've done this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e991	We know why crisis centres are in a bad economic situation. There have been wage developments, electricity prices and various things that have caused many crisis centres in this country to come ‘short’. We've been through that before. The Council of State was also concerned that the nominal growth in support from municipalities to crisis centres has declined from last year. This is a big problem. When I took up this matter with the Council of State last time concerning a crisis centre in Eastfold, the Council of State said to me in an answer: "We also think it was sad that you had to close a center for a period. That's also why we assured ourselves in advance that women who needed crisis centres would still have a place in the immediate vicinity of where they lived." The crisis center in Bergen says they have to shut down all December. This is a large crisis centre covering a large area. What will the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1003	The problem that the Bergen crisis centre was in such a difficult situation, we were made aware of this question-time question, which came on Friday. We've been trying to investigate. What I said in my first post was that we want to ignore the deadline we have set, if the crisis centre manages to raise money. In addition to that, I can also contact the County Council in Hordaland to assess whether it is possible that he can also assist the Centre, so that one can somehow manage to secure the operation of the year with the resources available to them. I'll do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1011	I have a question for the Minister of Education: ‘In September 2002, US Lorraine Monroe visited Norway with a clear message that discipline prevents violence at school. She has succeeded in making good schools of fighting schools. At that time, the Minister of Education said that she would draw up an indicative school regulations to advise teachers on how the school day should be set up. ‘Disipline and learning outcomes are closely linked’ said the Council of State. Norwegian students are among those who are most plagued by the concerns of learning. What has the Council of State done to reduce this scourge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1020	Dr. Lorraine Monroe is internationally known for his work at the Central Harlem school in New York, and in September 2002, I got quite the pleasure of meeting Dr. Monroe and discussing the importance of a good learning environment, the means to achieve this and the relationship between the learning environment and the learning outcomes. It is true that in 2002 we were able to demonstrate that we have disciplinary problems and bullying in Norwegian school. Since this became known, the government has worked in a number of areas to create a better learning environment without anxiety and discipline problems, such as bullying. A prerequisite for good learning is a learning environment that inspires and motivates efforts. In a mutual way, good training contributes to a good learning environment. Recent data may indicate that the number of students involved in problem behaviour has not increased in recent years. The NOVA Research Institute considers that it is possible to detect a decrease in problem behaviour from 1994 to 2003. In the case of bullying, new numbers from the Behavioral Research Centre show that 30 pst. fewer children are being bullied now than three years ago. Measurements from single schools such as: has implemented the Olweus programme, suggesting a decrease in the incidence of bullying between 30 and 50 pst. This is joyous, but not satisfactory. We should not accept unrest and problem behaviour that hinders the learning process for the individual. That's why we have to keep working. The legal paragraph – § 9a of the Training Act – on the school environment of pupils came into force on 1 April 2003 and entitles primary and secondary school students to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. Students and parents have gained a greater degree of user involvement and better access to justice. The Ministry has developed a school owner’s counsellor and schools on legislative changes and an information booklet for students and parents. The provisions of Sections 2 to 9 of the Training Act on the Rules of Procedure of the School provide for the rights and obligations of students, rules on behaviour and the measures which the School may take in relation to students who are in breach of the Rules of Procedure. The Education Directorate is working on an indicative school regulations to provide school guidance and advice on the local design of the school regulations. The government put forward St.meld. No 30 for 2003–04, Culture for learning, as the Stortinget treated in June this year. In the message we presented, among other things: The school poster, or the educational poster, with basic principles and requirements to characterise and oblige all schools and other training places. There are also demands for the physical and psychosocial working and learning environment at the centre. This will also be very central when the reform is to be implemented and implemented. In addition, I would like to add that we have just recently launched our national quality assessment system, or the beginning of it, including the school portal.no, where well-being and the learning environment are key elements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1037	I thank you for your answer. I point out that it's not bullying that I'm dealing with, but another phenomenon that's at least as extensive, that's the turmoil in the educational situation and in the school environment. But that's not the same thing as bullying. Two years ago, the Council of State said: ‘Many teachers and school managers have doubts about how they can and should establish regulations for the school. I want to help make an example of how this can be done." I record from the answer that it's taken more than two years to get it in place, so that the government and the government in this area are less conspicuous than what has been seen in creating anti-tampering, reading, math and integration programs. In its programme, the wording of the wording of the programme is as follows: ‘It is unacceptable for one or a few students to be able to destroy education and the school environment for the vast majority.’ Does the Council of State believe that this objective has been achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1056	The representative of Sortevik is quite right that we have to distinguish between bullying and serious problem behaviour and what can be called trouble and trouble. When it comes to anxiety and trouble, there's some anxiety and trouble that's completely OK and creative. But it is quite right that the vast majority of students themselves report that they are very well off in Norwegian school, but that they themselves think that there is too much anxiety and trouble, that it disturbs teaching, and that they expect them to thrive just as well even if they learn more and there is less anxiety and trouble. The representative of Sortevik is quite right about this. But I believe that the anti- bullying work also has implications for the issues of anxiety and trouble. An important element of the work we do on anti- bullying is, of course, to encourage schools to have good school regulations, good codes of conduct and penalties if you break the regulations. It also seems, of course, to be a matter of trouble. Many of the programs against bullying are really about relieving trouble and having side effects on what is more serious bullying. I think that the work on an indicative regulation has taken too long – I will basically give the representative Sortevik right to it – and I will try to speed it up. It's been a little bit harder than we thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1063	The response was significantly better, in my opinion. The Party for Progress is concerned that there should be good conduct rules. That's how, as the Council of State began to say, there's a lot of measurements in Norwegian school. This is also the case, as the Council of State said in the follow-up reply, that even the students themselves want a firmer hand. But it is also true that surveys show that many teachers are struggling with a problem. Studies are available to show that half of Norwegian teachers claim that behavioural problems disrupt teaching. It helps explain Norway’s deplorable location in PISA monitoring, as one of the most troubled school nations. How will the Council of State invite a broad cooperation with parents to bring this problem to life?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1072	Of course, the representative Sortevik is right in saying that this is also a nuisance to the teachers. Here I want to say that the causes are, on the one hand, different from those of the schools, the teachers, i.e. the teachers have had a heavier problem because the homes may not be doing their part of the job. But it also has to do with the leadership role and authority that the teachers themselves have and take in the classroom and at school. That's why part of the work we're doing is to clarify the role of adults, to take back the leadership role and authority in the classroom and at school. I would also like to say that in our efforts to develop skills in the field of Culture for learning, this must be central – the teacher as a leader and the teacher as a professional. Parents are and should be involved in a dialogue about this all the time. I think, for example, not to have successful, good school regulations that can be successfully implemented without involving parents — and students, when they are old enough to do so. This is a contract between home and school, where home and school agree that it should be, and then everyone must follow the rules, otherwise it will break down.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1083	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘The University of Tromsø has applied to the Ministry of Education and Research for funding for the establishment of a Bachelor’s programme in aviation. The government in the 2004 government budget asked for follow-up to the establishment of this study. The Bachelor's programme has broad support in the aviation industry. In view of the fact that education has not been included in this year's draft state budget, what will the Council of State do to ensure that education is established at the University of Tromsø?»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1092	It is true that, in its budgetary position for 2004, the Church, Education and Research Committee referred to the establishment of pilot training in Bardufoss and considered it important that the establishment work should continue, so that training could be established as soon as possible. However, the Committee indicated that, in this context, recognition in relation to the Law on Vocational Education should also be assessed. Until now, the training of traffic pilots in Bardufoss has been largely funded by SAS. But as the representative Lena Jensen correctly points out, the aviation industry supports the establishment of a Bachelor's programme and now wants a state-funded higher education. However, as mentioned above, the Committee has explicitly stated that recognition in relation to the law on vocational education and training should also be assessed. The State will continue the dialogue with representatives of traffic pilot users on the requirements to be set at the acceptable level of education. However, the quality requirements for higher education clearly limit the assessment of the establishment of new education.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1101	I think it is nice that civil pilot training in public today is not at university level. I am surprised that the Council of State has not taken this action before, nor has it now. If it's a subject that's important, and where you can easily see the need for education to be at university level, it's this subject. It is necessary to receive traffic pilot training at a higher level of education — at university level. All the professional bodies have strongly recommended this. The higher the level of training, the better the safety. Traffic pilots work with high complexity in their subject, both technologically, traffically, organisationally and humanly. Errors are not tolerated and can have fatal consequences. It is completely incorrect what has previously been claimed that aviation safety is well maintained by adding a lower level. Safety requirements will then be lowered instead of being increased. Do the Councils see the need to increase road safety and to put this training programme at a higher level, at the bachelor level?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1108	The system in Norway is not such that you just put something on a level. It is strange to say that this is not a university-level education, but in Norway certain quality requirements have to be met in order for education to become a university education. Now I can say that, on the one hand, I have not found room to prioritise this purely financially in the budgets, but it has to be seen in the context of my doubt as to whether the academic quality or the research capacity that this education has today will qualify to establish a university education. I remind you that NOKUT has twice previously rejected the application for accreditation of Norwegian Aviation College as a private university, and it has been justified by at least four key points. I also recall that the quality criteria underlying the establishment of higher-level studies and the accreditation of higher-level institutions are criteria laid down by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1117	This is a new application, and you have also received the University of Tromsø as a partner. All professional bodies agree that they need traffic management training at university level. Everyone also recommends that NAC, located in Bardufoss, be added to the University of Tromsø. First of all, this is a brilliant location, it's highly competent staff working there, the infrastructure is organized, and if you can fly in North Norway, you can fly a plane anywhere. In addition, the University of Tromsø has been admitted as a partner, which is important for enhancing the competence of traffic controllers. I am concerned about aviation safety for the President, for the Council of State, and for anyone using aircraft. The establishment of traffic pilot training in Troms will be and has been an important issue for SV. SV will work for this and promote this matter in the budget, and I wonder if the Council of State will support us in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1124	It is not primarily a budgetary matter. The point is that if you want to receive a quality stamp from the State on a post-secondary education level, you can get two stamps today, and both are given by NOCUT, either as a vocational school education or as a study at a higher education institution, an academic institution, a university or a university. In this case, we're talking about university. When Norwegian Aviation College has received twice its refusal to apply for accreditation as a private university, it is for four reasons: the level of teaching staff and sensors is not satisfactory, they lack the prerequisites, competence and economy to conduct their own research and development activities, the form of examination does not open up to requirements of analytical ability, and there is no explanation of the physical learning environment, financial management system or how to comply with other requirements of the UH law. So this is not just an economic question, but a question of keeping the quality that is needed to get stamped as a post-secondary education or higher-level education. I'm not against anything, I think both options are good. I do not want to rule out that this fully meets the objectives of a very good vocational education, for example, and that could also be an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1135	My second question in this questionnaire is – I am so lucky to have two questions because the Council of State was away last week: ‘A political majority in the county of Hordaland has ensured that Hordaland, as another state, grants students free schooling within the county border. A number of states have such freedom of choice, but limited by administrative boundaries. At the same time, the economy of county councils is under pressure and supply is being reduced. The government has in St.meld. [[2003-2004]] No 30 said that it is considered to promote legislation on free choice of schools. What is the plan of the Council of State to grant all secondary school students free schooling throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1144	I am sending this week's proposal for a number of changes to the Education Act and the Free School Act at the hearing. Mainly, the proposal for amendments is a follow-up to the ‘Culture for learning’ and the treatment of the notification by the Stortinge. Several of the proposals contained in the notification do not require changes to the Training Act or the Law on Secondary Education, but changes to the regulations adopted on the basis of these laws. Proposals for amendments to these regulations will be sent to the hearing later and are therefore not mentioned in this letter of consultation, which expires this week. The introduction of free choice of schools throughout the country is largely subject to regulatory changes. However, in the letter of hearing, the Hearing Officers were asked to comment on two sketches in the field of free school choice. The first outline refers to changes in the regulations of the Training Act, which allow students to choose school in their own country, and to the character being used as criterion for ranking in the examination. The second sketch also applies to changes in the regulation of the training law, but to introduce free choice of advanced offers across county boundaries in the case of free capacity. And I emphasize that this of course applies to higher education. After I have reviewed the comments of the hearing bodies on the drafts presented in the letter of consultation, I will consider proposing to amend the regulation of the training law in the case of free school choice within the county of residence and the free choice of secondary offer across the county boundaries in the case of vacant capacity. This will be the subject of a new consultation in a separate letter of consultation. The letter of consultation proposes to amend the regulations in the Training Act §§ 13-3 and 13-4 so that these changes in the regulations of the Training Act on the free choice of schools may be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1157	I thank you for the answer and am pleased to note that the progress in this matter is considerably faster than what we were shown in connection with my first question. It is gratifying that we are now on our way to taking another step towards a freer school choice. At the same time, however, most will be bound by the administrative boundary, and it is also true that both in the 2003–04 school year and in the current year, 2004–2005, there has been a large increase in the number of young people between 16 and 18 years of age, and consequently also a large increase in the number of applications to secondary school. At the same time, the economy of the county councils is under pressure. Almost two thirds of the income goes to high school. How does the Government ensure that the dimensioning of higher education funds within the county border actually allows choice and freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1164	Now I first want to refer to my first answer, where it turned out that we also heard a model that is about offering across the county boundaries. With regard to the economy of the counties, I would like to refer to our presentation to the state budget, where within the municipal economy it is a pre-allocation of the municipalities – and then you have to understand the word correctly – in the sense that the counties get a larger share than they would normally get, and that is to take off for the student growth in higher education. Then, of course, we can have a discussion about the local economy is good and good enough, but it's clear that the government in its arrangement has tried to take into account what we know is a challenge in the coming years: a large student growth in secondary education and a student growth that's biased among the counties, so that some states have a much bigger challenge than others. But one of the models I hear on a more basic basis is also a model where you can move across the county boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1173	I thank you again for the answer. One of the models you obviously haven't chosen to look at is the model that ensures the free choice best, namely that a larger part of the money actually follows the student. Why have the Council of State and the Ministry not also considered this model?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1180	I don't feel that it belongs in a consultation context like this, where we look at changes in the training law. In the past, we have argued that we want our municipalities and counties to be well-funded, so that we also have to take care of local democracy and the opportunity to make choices at local level, which makes it a point of democracy. But I don't want to rule out finding in the future high-level models and vis-à-vis the states that contain elements of other funding models. That discussion will probably also appear in the light of the fact that we are now discussing major issues relating to the regionalisation of Norway and the location of the tasks. It also belongs to that kind of question naturally at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1188	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: «A majority remark in the budget entry. S. No 11 is in favour of using the Doman method, and that there can be contributions from the population according to certain rules. [[2002-2003]] A mother who has had very good results using the method for her daughter after a visit to the United States has received a refusal from Health Nord to continue training in Norway. In other regions, the method of public aid is used. Will the Council of State take initiatives towards Health Nord and ensure that support is given to children who, after professional judgement, may benefit from the Doman method?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1197	After that department has been informed, contributions are also made from the population benefit for travel to the Doman Institute from Health Nord RHF. Furthermore, support from Health Nord RHF is provided to families who need it after treatment with the Doman method, as is done in other regions. The condition for the provision of contributions from people’s rights to travel to the Doman Institute is that there is an opinion from the regional undertaking, which is intended to carry out the same type of assessment as that previously carried out by the Working Party appointed by the Social and Health Directorate. Furthermore, the opinion of the child’s doctor shall be that the treatment is considered to be professionally sound in the case in question. The Ministry, by letter to the regional health establishments of 8 March 2002, stated that the regional health establishments/enterprises, in cooperation with the municipalities, had to assess the necessary financial support and any practical support to their parents in order to implement the scheme chosen. The governance document of regional health enterprises for the current year also states that financial and practical support for families with disabled and chronically ill children is to be assessed in order to allow the choice of alternative training methods, including the Doman approach. After that department is known, Health Nord RHF follows up the signals given by the department in the same way as the other regional health establishments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1213	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which is not consistent with the information I have with this patient. Treatment with the Doman method is done by cerebral paresis children with severe brain damage. The number of such children is estimated to be below 100 in Norway. The Doman method has been developed in Philadelphia in the United States, and most children treated by the method must have an introduction to Philadelphia. The treatment method is both demanding and incredibly arduous for the parents. The main problem for this type of child’s parents is, however, not the strenuous exercise, but the reimbursement of necessary expenditure on the rehabilitation method. To me, it seems quite obvious that the responsibility for this special rehabilitation facility is and should be a matter for the specialist health service. Will the Minister of Health take the initiative to assign responsibility for the investigation and follow-up of these children to one or perhaps all health regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1220	It is clear that, in some cases, a method such as this, where grants are to be granted after checking the professional soundness of the scheme, could mean that, in relatively similar cases, different treatment can be given in respect of grants. That, of course, is not desirable. I'm going to take the initiative, which Alvheim asks about and encourages, to get a greater degree of common position on this, so that equal cases are treated equally regardless of the company in which you might be in, with the small reservation related to the medical assessment made. However, similar medical assessments should be treated equally regardless of which of the five healthcare companies in which you are a patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1225	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I am very pleased with. I am aware that the Doman method and the Petø method, similar to the Doman method, have little support in the respective professional environments, which I personally believe is due to a lack of knowledge. This is also supported by many paediatric patients recommending the method. Unfortunately, there is no professional investigation or evidence of the effectiveness of treatment in Norway today. Will the Minister of Health take the initiative to investigate who is to be given responsibility for the investigation and selection of patients? And could it be that Sunnaas Hospital in that way will be a suitable place?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1232	It's true, as the representative Alvheim says, that this is a method that has not exactly been driven by the Norwegian medical environments. There are completely other people who have done it, and as far as I can remember, I have one of them right in front of me now, as Alvheim has been one of those people who have contributed to these children being treated by this method. An assessment of whether to conduct a medical investigation in Norway on this matter, I will of course take this with me. The most important thing is at least maybe that until we get a plan for this, we have a common act towards the people who are going to have such a grant, and I'm definitely going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1242	I will be asked the following questions by the Minister of Health: ‘Scheie’s syndrome is a rare disease, but very serious for the few affected. There is now a new treatment method, ERT, which allows some patients to receive treatment. Because of lack of funding, treatment or non-treatment practices differ. How does the Council of State view the possibility of providing adequate treatment to this group?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1251	It is true that Scheie's syndrome is a very rare disease. According to international medical literature, about one person with this disease is born per person. 500,000 births. In Norway, as far as I know, there are twelve people who have this disease. However, this does not mean that we are out of competence in this area, partly through our own experience, where, as we know, we have professional environments that are particularly closely linked to the very rare diseases. New treatment options have been developed over the past five years that not only deal with symptoms and sequelae, where patients receive regular injections of the special enzyme they lack. This form of treatment is also referred to in English as ‘enzyme replacement therapy’, or ERT, to which Hanssen’s representative referred in his question. For those special conditions where this form of medical treatment is relevant, treatment is considered to be established and well documented by the professional settings. This in turn implies that there will be the specific medical assessments made by the professional community against the individual patient’s condition, which determine the treatment to be given. A specialised treatment like this will then take place either under the control of one of our hospitals or through cooperation with another competent environment, in Norway or abroad. It may be quite unfortunate for me to go into the most highly professional medical questions that this matter also raises. We have professional environments that, at my discretion, are able to assess whether a treatment is established medical practice or not, and also to implement a treatment plan for the patients concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1264	I thank you for the answer, which is an important clarification, particularly related to one aspect, because I think the Council of State, through its response, is now clearly cutting through and saying that treatment with ERT is not experimental but ‘established and well documented’. It is important that it is said by the Council of State. What I feel is a question that the Council of State has little to do with is the fact that this established, well-documented treatment is very expensive. It's about 1.3 million for children. kr per. years, for adults up to 3 million. kr per. years, i.e. very costly. Nevertheless, my follow-up question will have to be asked whether the Council of State will be satisfied that treatment will not be stopped for economic reasons if the medical/professional assessments provide treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1271	The answer to the last one is simply yes. It'll be by this disease that everyone else we're dealing with, a balance of what in good Norwegian is called diet-new, and such an assessment is made. As far as I have been informed, this affects 12 people per year. All the indications I have are that it should be treated either the cost is 1.5 million. NOK or SEK 3 million. kr, neither more nor less.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1276	Of course, I'm very pleased with that answer. The last issue, which I will then only touch on in a follow-up, is that it is not difficult to see that some hospitals can actually be hit hard by costs, in the sense that the occurrence of Scheie's syndrome does not divide geographically according to any statistical basis in the population. I know, for example. that in Nord-Trøndelag has a small hospital two patients. It is clear that I am very much in favour of these patients being treated, but it creates a situation where one gets extremely high costs associated with one small hospital. I believe that there may be a basis for us to come back and look at how such special diseases are to be handled cost-effectively, and I hope that the Council of State is interested in a dialogue about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1283	After all, it is a recognised principle in health and care management that sometimes, I kept saying, exceptions in the distribution of income so that especially cost-intensive conditions get their own earmarked scheme. We have had this in many reforms, the HVPU reform and other care reforms. As for the fact that some small hospitals can be affected, it is to say that we have five regional health companies that can make some balancing and adjustment of this, but the issue Hanssen travels linked to this special disease, I will definitely take with me and look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1291	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: «The proposal to locate the surgery at the Sørlande Hospital HF to Kristiansand has aroused great indignation and dismay throughout East Agder. Kristiansand hospitals already have most special functions. In East Agder, it is considered essential that the actual car surgery is now located at Arendal Hospital, in the interests of the already existing professional environment and to maintain the equivalence of the two hospitals. Does the Council of State consider it important to have a full and equivalent hospital for the future in Arendal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1300	The location of hospitals and hospital functions naturally creates in many contexts a sensitive debate, and a sensitive debate is now taking place in the South. How these issues are addressed has a bearing on public confidence in decision-makers and on the legitimacy of health businesses externally. The main task of health enterprises is to provide good specialist health services in line with the overall objectives of health policy, primarily in the interests of patients. Nevertheless, I would say that equal access primarily involves giving all people access to important health services, regardless of their place of residence, economy, ethnicity, social conditions and diagnosis. When equivalence is used as a argument in the debate on the distribution of functions between two hospitals, it will clearly be perceived and understood differently in the professional and political environments. There has also been a lot of debate on the distribution of hospital functions in the South, and in particular between Arendal and Kristiansand. The Arendal hospital will be developed to ensure that the population of Arendal and its surroundings will be properly provided with specialist health services both in the short and long term. However, a process in Health South is in progress to improve resource use, and a wide-ranging investigation has been undertaken to identify alternative work distribution between hospitals in Southern Hospital HF. It's known to focus on conversion and function distribution. Not everything can happen anywhere. The making of such collections will also have an impact on the quality sometimes. Therefore, we need to look for solutions that ensure both functional distribution and a well-decentralised hospital service. I am aware that the administration of the Sørlande Hospital has now submitted a preliminary assessment of the functional distribution of car surgery to the board of the health company. A comprehensive process remains before a final decision is taken in January 2005. It is a demanding but also required task to communicate about the need for development and conversion. We have a common responsibility not to take the extremes as a starting point each time one discusses the future provision of healthcare. I am confident that professionals and the administrative staff of healthcare companies are also committed to facilitating the best possible provision of health care for the population, within the resources available to them, including the professional environment and staffing. This trust must be mutual and can be ensured by health businesses through good processes towards local environments and their own employees. A future decision on surgery in the South shall and must be taken within the decision-making powers of Health South. I assume, however, that this happens after one has communicated with the different environments, in order to communicate the basis of the decision and ensure legitimacy for what would become the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1315	I remember the answer, which I didn't think was very clarifying. I hope that the Council of State agrees that both politicians and residents in East Agder are now really very concerned about the future of the only hospital in the county, when we see recent developments, where all the important pinnacle functions are about to end up in Kristiansand. This is totally unacceptable from the East-Agder side. It has been clearly established in the past that these two hospitals should be two equivalent hospitals. The fact that Arendal gets the surgery is very important in order to maintain some kind of equivalence. A unanimous board of the Norwegian Car Surgical Association has been committed to locating the artery surgery. This is a very heavy professional advice, which is taken after a very thorough assessment of several things. Shouldn't the board of directors and management of the Southern Hospital, in the opinion of the Council of State, place considerable emphasis on precisely such important professional advice when they reach their final decision on the location of the car surgery?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1322	There will always be a balance between many conflicting interests. With all the experience of hospital operations, for 25 years as a politician, I seem to remember that such statements, from, for example, the Norwegian Car Surgical Association and other associations, have not dampened the noise that occurs when you get decisions that go against one. I assume that the debate in South Africa and what had stood both in the Agderpost and in the Fädreland friend had been somewhat the same regardless of what this association should have said. This with the placement of hospital functions always triggers strong emotions, and so does this time. I note that the preliminary position of the administration is that the car surgery is to be added to Kristiansand, based on a centre of gravity in relation to the population, and that the board will take decisions on it in January, after they have had processes against local and regional politicians in the South.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1329	I remember the answer, which I think is very elusive. I want an assurance that the people of East-Agder will, for the future, be guaranteed a full and just as good hospital service as the people of West-Agder have. Such equivalence can best be ensured by an appropriate and reasonable distribution of so-called peak functions between the two hospitals. If this balance is distorted by peak functions too much, Arendal Hospital ends up as a B hospital, with the great fear that the 24-hour emergency function will eventually disappear. In that case, it will be a disaster and a totally unacceptable weakening of the security of life and health for the inhabitants of East Agder. So let me ask again: it must be that the Minister of Health believes that the people of East-Agder should have an equally good, equivalent and fully-fledged health and hospital service that the people of West-Agder have. Here, the Council of State can only answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1336	I think the last one was a great offer, and the answer is of course yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1341	Nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1350	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Health and Care: ‘There are now reports from a number of private health care actors that may indicate that there is full confusion and frustration as to what can be expected of opportunities and assignments from regional health care businesses for next year. As an example, Health Mid-Norway has put in place a quota system for the private hospitals that allows Medi 3 in Ålesund to operate a much smaller number of patients next year. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the free choice of hospitals is not disrupted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1359	Different private enterprises contribute and play an important role in the overall specialist health service. In the context of the achievement of health policy objectives, regional health enterprises enter into agreements with private actors on relevant health services that form part of the overall approach to fulfilling the ‘serge-for’ responsibilities. In the agreements concluded, there are naturally enough limitations, including: in relation to the scope of the services to be provided. From 1 September 2004, the free-hospital selection scheme was extended to private hospitals which have contracts with regional health care establishments for the free-hospital selection. The agreements shall be based on competitive tenders or negotiations. Regional health establishments may not be required to purchase all available capacity. The agreements must be concluded on the basis of real negotiations and needs. The aim of extending free hospital choice to both public and private health services is to exploit the overall capacity of healthcare, so that patients in need of health care do not have to wait unnecessarily if private healthcare facilities are available. However, it is not intended to create overcapacity in the overall healthcare funded by public funds. Both public and private service providers must therefore be prepared to adapt to the needs and requirements of healthcare. However, such adaptations must be made in a balanced manner that maintains the objective of the central role of private enterprises in the overall healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1368	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I had not expected any other answer either, but I really hope that the Council of State will take seriously in the situation that is about to arise, inward and check out a little what is about to happen. I refer here to an example, for example: in the case of Medi 3 in Ålesund. For the current year they operate for approx. 2 500 DRG points. According to the draft agreement from Health Mid Norway to next year, they have received an offer of 620 DRG credits. Then it goes without saying that the business can no longer continue in the same way it does today. The victim of the injury is the patient and the free choice of hospitals. What is actually said is that the patient can no longer choose, if he is looking for a hospital that has used up the DRG credits that it has agreed with regional health companies. My question to the Minister of Health and Health is: Does the Minister not see this issue, which can arise very quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1375	I see that issue, and I see it very well. There have been many individual institutions that have complained about the way they have been treated by regional health companies, I do not hide that. I've met many of these. I have now set up a group that has had five to six weeks in it and consists of people from private hospitals, from regional health companies and from the ministry to look at what measures we can take in the short term to increase the predictability of institutions. So the governance document that we usually send out the first week of January is going to have some of the things that you've been busy about. These include both the stability of the persons engaged in negotiations, predictability and greater time horizons of the contracts, and not least the fact that the contracts are renegotiated in good time before they expire, so that the necessary conversion can take place, whether in the private sector or in the public sector. The issues addressed are highly relevant. I've done something about it, and it's going to have consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1384	I thank the Council of State this time for a very positive response. It is quite clear that someone is taking these things inward, and I am looking forward to this group delivering its report to the Minister of Health and Care. This is very important, because if we focus on the patient, with which both the Council of State and part of other parties were previously high on the track, one actually has to take inward that if there is free capacity somewhere, there must not be a quota system that prevents the patient from using the free hospital choice. The treatment must be where the patient himself wants to receive it, as long as one has entered into previous agreements. This is very important, because if not, the system of free hospital choice in the case of private actors is coming into trouble. At least it is gratifying that the Minister of Health sees this issue. This with long-term agreements is also very important to take inwards. Will the Council of State focus more on the problem that if a situation where a health institution has completed its quota in February – which will actually be the case in the example here – can arise through an allowance system, while other private actors within the same patient group are not, does the patient actually have to choose a different hospital from what he wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1393	Firstly, I am very concerned that the free hospital choice, which we have now expanded from 1 September, should be real. Then I see that there's a discussion, also in the middle of public hospitals, where some people are very concerned about the hospitals that patients choose away. And there might be a reason for that. Then I think it is important that we take action to improve the quality of the hospitals that patients choose away. With regard to the choice between public and private, it should be just as real for the patient. The choice that we have given, the patient's right that is undiluted, is undiluted as such and, in principle, without restriction. Then, of course, it needs to be adapted to the need and the economy that you have at all times, but it should be set up neutrally in relation to public/public and public/private. That's my absolute starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1403	‘Ski hospitals in Akershus have traditionally acted as an excellent local hospital for people in Follo. The inhabitants have been very satisfied, and the hospital has had good financial control. Health East is currently making arrangements to show that they are practically dismantling the hospital. This is provocative for people in Follo, who have had expectations of an enhanced offer through a new hospital in Follo. Health East shows no willingness to clarify its plans for the hospital. What ambitions does the Government have for the Ski Hospital?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1410	As the representative Haga knows, through the Health Business Act, regional health companies have been given responsibility to ensure that patients in their health region are properly provided with a specialist healthcare service. Unlike the other districts of Health East, the population of Follo has not previously had an overall local hospital offer. Through the new division into recording areas, Health East has now contributed to the Follo population being given a complete local hospital offer and a common admission area for somatic and psychiatry at Aker University Hospital HF. Health East and Aker university hospitals are now working on a development plan for the health business. In this work, the offer at Ski Hospital is assessed in a complete way, i.e. in relation to the other offer within the health company. Health East has assured me that there are no plans to shut down Ski Hospitals and that Ski Hospitals will continue to play a central role in the specialist health service provision of the population in the Follo region. However, it is for Health East to conclude on the offer to be made by each institution and on the extent to which it is to be made. However, I assume, as Health East has confirmed, that the development of the offer at Ski Hospital takes place in dialogue with the local environments, among others. with the establishment teams in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1419	In their answer, the Council of State is competent to avoid answering my question. Because I'm absolutely sure the Council of State understands that what I'm asking for concerns the situation at Ski Hospital, not the combined Aker and Ski Hospital. So my question has not been answered by the answer that the Council of State was seeking to give. In a letter from the Ministry of Health of 30 January this year, the then Minister of Health Høybräten writes about Ski Hospital: «Health East has informed me that there is no mention of any degradation of this hospital.» So this applies specifically to Ski Hospital. My question to the Council of State is: What ambitions does the Government have for the offer that Follo's population should have, from Ski Hospital, not the combined Ski and Aker?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1433	I am fully aware that when you feel that you do not receive an answer, it may of course be due to the unwillingness of the person to answer, but it may also be that the representative deliberately asks a question that he/she knows not to answer, meaning that the government does not have his/her own plans for each hospital. The Law on Regional Health Enterprises, adopted in the United Kingdom by an overwhelming majority, deals with the sharing of responsibilities in relation to these issues, where strategies for the individual hospital should be developed. For this hospital it is Health East’s overall strategy paper that provides specialised services throughout the whole of Health East, including the Follo region. This means that in the Ministry of Health we do not develop our own strategy papers for each hospital regardless of what is done in regional health companies. This is the division of labour, and it has nothing to do with the ability to avoid answering the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1440	The dilemma for people in Follo is that they don't know what kind of hospital services it will be in the region. Health East had a meeting with big-time representatives in this house a week ago, and then you weren't close to trying to answer the questions that were asked in relation to what plans you have for Ski hospitals and the local hospital functions that people in Follo think they should have available in their community in Follo. And since Health East is not willing to give answers, we as biging representatives have no other option than to seek answers from the Council of State. There is a desperate situation in Follo and at Ski Hospital. The employees are reported by sea. The danger is that we lose valuable competence. People in the area get worried, not least older people, who have had a good offer, and who don't know what to deal with. It is very strange when the director of Aker University Hospital says to the East German magazine on 16 October that he does not know anything about cutting plans at Ski Hospital, and then we know that the employees were just informed about cutting plans four days earlier. Does the Council of State think that this is a wise way to deal with health changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1447	The last one is a good question, whether it's a wise way to do the conversion, as it's done at this hospital. Of course, I do not have any concrete knowledge of that – whether it is four days before or four days after that. But what is indisputable is that there are strategic documents for any healthcare company and for any hospital. And of course you can get answers there, because this is open information that's out there, that everyone can find online. But I guess the questioner is primarily concerned with future structure and future changes. It is not easy for a hospital director to answer until any changes have been made. The process you're in is going to create equivalent offers, whether you're in the Follo region, live on the east side or west side, or you're in East Agder or West Agder. What I can say about Ski Hospital and the functions of the recording area is that it has to be seen in conjunction with the other hospitals that are set to take care of the health of those who live in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1465	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1472	This question, from the representative of Vidar Bjørnstad, will be raised by the representative of Sverre Myrli.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1475	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘It has been decided that the 335-square drone should be moved from Gardermoen to Rygge and that parts of the defence operations at Kjeller should be moved to Gardermoen. What is the situation with regard to the relocation and re-establishment of defence activities at Kjeller, Gardermoen and Rygge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1484	In spring, the Stortinget adopted the next four-year defence plan for the period 2005–08. As a follow-up to this, it is now working to identify an appropriate distribution of the business at the Gardermoen, Rygge and Kjeller bases. One objective is that the location of the 335-square drone to Back may take place as soon as possible, and at the latest by the end of 2008. The removal of the 335-square drone frees construction and constructions at the base Gardermoen. This is important in order to follow up the Storting decision to locate parts of the Defence Logistics Organisation and other defence activities currently using the Kjeller flight strip to Gardermoen. However, the relocation of operations from Kjeller, mainly the aircraft and helicopter workshops at the FLO/Air Force Main Workshop, presupposes that Avinor approves that the required test flight can be conducted on Gardermoen. In our agreement, the Storting agreed that Division Heavy Maintenance in the FLO would be reorganised into State-owned or private-owned limited liability companies and separated from the Defence Organisation. In parallel with the work on the transfer of the main workshop of the Air Force, there is therefore work to establish heavy maintenance as a limited liability company. The process takes place in close cooperation with the Defence Military Organisation and in dialogue with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Modernisation and the Ministry of Finance. Cooperation with other departments is important in order to draw on experience and competence from similar processes in other sectors. The concrete costs of the move will be clarified precisely in the processes I have now listed. The costs shall, as specified by the majority of the Defence Committee, be kept to the lowest possible level. Finally, I would like to remind you that the time perspective for implementing these measures is 2005–08, and we are still only in 2004. However, the aim is to be able to implement the measures adopted as early as possible in the next period, once those investigations have been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1501	I want to thank the Minister. The recently appointed Air Force Inspector General worked for many years to move the 335-square from Gardermoen to Rygge. The size did not agree to this until now in ours. It seems a little rational to put down a new and modern airstation. Another thing, with clear parallels, is Avinor's control center in the smoke. Both the control center in the smoke and the Gardermoen air station were completed in 1996. Both the control center and Gardermoen airstation were investments in the billion-dollar class. So now we're going to put it down. Does the Council of State think this is a reasonable use of public funds, and is she sure that all the costs of moving from the Gardermoen to Rygge are known?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1510	I would first like to make it clear that when it comes to problems around the smoke, it's sort of under another government council, so I don't get into that. But I would like to address problems around the Gardermo, which – right – is a new and modern flight station. It was also a central question when Stortinget decided to move the 335 square, that we did not put down the activity on the Gardermo. The Gardermoen has become very important, not least for the so-called FLO/Trans, which stands for too much of our international transport to the operational areas. So more activity is added to the Gardermo. In it is just this combination that something on Kjeller goes to Gardermoen, and something on the Gardermoen goes to Rygge. But as I said, the final cost picture cannot be given until the investigations are completed. Several of these investigations are intended to be completed by the end of the year, so that we reach the goal of presenting and implementing a final solution as early as possible in the next period, starting in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1515	Thank you for that. One of the pieces in – let's say – the puzzle Kjeller, Gardermoen, Back is that flight strips on Kjeller and its areas are to be sold to get sounding coins in the minister's box, for necessary investments and whatever it may be. This was also the minister's only reason to go away from the Chief of Defense's military professional investigation into uniting FLO's management at Kjeller, and instead go in for large parts to go to Kolsås. The part of FLO's operations using airstrips on Kjeller shall then be moved to the Gardermoen, as the Council of State has now explained. Is the Council aware of the opinions of the Municipality of Skedsmo, which is a planning and regulatory authority, that it takes many years before airstrips on Kjeller can be regulated for other purposes? And what does she do in this moving puzzle if it turns out that one doesn't get the large sums that the department and the landfill have provided for airstrips on Kjeller and adjacent areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1524	It is important to keep some of these issues apart. The defense wants to dispose of as large areas as possible of what we no longer need. It is important to be able to finance initial investment in the Defence – the modern defence that we all want. This includes the sale of airstrips on Kjeller. However, it is normal that in order to sell defence property, we must have a close dialogue with the individual municipality, which is a regulatory authority, and arrive at an overall ambition both in terms of the regulatory provisions to be imposed on the site and in terms of a timetable for sale. Of course, we're dependent on that cooperation here as well. But it's not a decisive investment factor in moving the 335 square onto the Back. There are many factors involved here, and these factors were very well highlighted in ours, because the same issue was raised when the defence committee drew its conclusions – which then is a little in conflict with what the questioner had obviously wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1540	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1546	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘The Council of State decided at an energy conference in Haugesund in August that there was no political uncertainty or reluctance against gas power plants. However, following the announcement that they will realise their concession on Kårstø, several of her government colleagues, including the Prime Minister, the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Agriculture, have shown their reluctance, and it has even been claimed that gas power will lead to a higher price of power. Do the views of the government councils mentioned above share on gas power and power prices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1555	The government's gas power policy has been explained several times. The policy in this area is widely discussed in the Sem Declaration and further followed up in several communications to the Stortinget, among others. in the Gas Communication and in the Communication on the Innovation Activities of Green Gas Power Technologies, presented earlier in the autumn. However, I would like to take the opportunity to quote what, among other things. is stated in the Sem Declaration, which is the very basis of this Government: ‘The Board of Cooperation is basing its decision in the Inst. S. No 122 to the effect that no more stringent greenhouse gas emission requirements are to be imposed than is usual for gas power producers in other EEA countries.’;» [[1999 - 2000]] And on the other hand, «Until a system of tradable allowances is established in line with the Kyoto Protocol, it is assumed that additional concession and emission permits are granted only to gas power plants based on CO2-free technology.» The decision by the natural force to go further in order to realise the plans to build gas power plants on Kårstø, while not realizing the plans of Kollsnes, does not alter the Government's gas power policy. For the three gas power concessions in force, the Government, on the basis of the decision of the Stortingen in Innst. S. No 122 for 1999-2000 that no more stringent greenhouse gas emission requirements are to be imposed on those gas power plants than are common in other EEA countries. The government has extended the time limit for the entry into service of these facilities and the concessions have continued as they were granted by the government of Stoltenberg. At the same time, the Government's strategy for gas power plants with CO2 management is solid. In the government budget for next year, the government proposes that around 150 million be made available. kr for research, development and innovation of gas power technologies with CO2 management. The establishment of an innovation activity in Grenland will be a key instrument in the development of such technologies. Energy production in Norway has seen little capacity growth over many years in relation to the growth of consumption. New generation capacity that does not depend on weather conditions could help mitigate the fluctuations in the power price resulting from variations in hydropower generation. Such generation capacity will also make an important contribution to a competitive and secure energy supply, with acceptable prices of power to households and businesses. I would like to stress that the development of Norwegian and Nordic energy prices is not determined by some power producers alone, but by the development and composition of production and demand in the Nordic countries combined. The development of the European electricity market, with which we are linked through transmission lines, is also important for electricity prices at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1587	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, where she referred – so far – to what is stated in the Sem Declaration. But my claim is that the Sem Declaration actually contributes to strengthening the political uncertainty created here. State councils quoted from the chapter of the Sem Declaration stating that ‘no more stringent greenhouse gas emission requirements are to be imposed than is usual for gas power producers in other EEA countries’. So – in the last paragraph of the same chapter – the government undermines what they have said first, by saying: «Until a system of tradable allowances is established in line with the Kyoto Protocol, it is assumed that additional concession and emission permits are granted only to gas power plants based on CO2-free technology.» So what they say first here is undermined by what they say in the last paragraph. Can the Council of State explain to me how she makes these obvious contradictions relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1604	No, there are obviously no conflicting signals at all. This formed the basis of the government that acceded to the Sem Declaration, which is the very document of what this government rules. We said very clearly that the three concessions given are firm. It was they who formed the basis for the discussion in the Stortinget and the decision in connection with Innst. S. No 122 in its time. The signals in relation to the decision taken by the Storting are also valid for the three concessions granted. As far as other gas power plants are concerned, according to the Sem Declaration, the Government has said that CO2 handling is to be carried out until the entry into force of a system of tradable allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1616	I thank the Council again for the answer. I understood from the first response of the Council of State that she agreed with me that there is essentially a supply and demand for power in the market that is crucial to the price. Power produced by gas is stable power supply, which in itself can have a positive effect on the price, while wind power, on the other hand, on which the Government puts great effort, is both more expensive to produce and very uncertain supply, which will, of course, push prices into the weather. Why does the government not improve the conditions for a secure power supply – instead of the politically correct wind turbines, which will lead to much more expensive electricity for everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1625	First of all, I have to say that with regard to the power situation in Norway, I share the representative's view. We have a major challenge to make sure that in the future we will also be able to secure Norwegian supplies, both in the case of households and in the case of businesses, that they have plenty of power. I would also like to add that I think Norway by being a rich energy nation should also have an ambition to perhaps be an exporter of power even in the years to come. There we have a challenge, because that's 99 pst. of our current today comes from hydropower. The Storting also agrees that in the years to come there will have to be a change in power supply in Norway, just to ensure that we are not as vulnerable as we have been in the last few years – we have good examples from the winter of 2002/2003. So we see that in the years to come we have to have a change in energy consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1634	Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-20.ana.ud2129e1645	There is no record.
