ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e40	Petroleum industry is Norway's main industry. It employs directly and indirectly around 220,000 people, and not least it has given and gives huge income to the community, which we also need to go on to build on the welfare community. I would like to comment initially on the exceedances of the Snow White project. It is very regrettable that we are now getting further exceedances on this project, and that the total exceedances can go up to NOK 12 billion. As the Council of State has explained, there are several reasons why this is so. I have to say that I look forward to a somewhat more complete explanation, as the Council of State has warned, than the one we heard so far today. I wonder that we are now getting more exceedances, and I would like to remind you that the Council of State wrote to me in a letter as late as October 6th last year: "Statoil also expects the other parts of the Snow White project to be completed according to plans and cost estimates, so that the discharge of leaks and start-up of committed gas supplies can proceed as planned." That is, we were informed six months ago that everything was under control. Then it is extra alarming that there are now new and as large exceedances as the ones we have now been presented. Here it is obvious that there must be a much closer follow-up of the important project that Snow White is actually. That's why everything needs to be inserted so that this doesn't happen again. As we've also heard, there are several relationships that play in, and that's why one is there. There was a great deal of observation and debate when Statoil chose to award large and important contracts to the Spanish Dragonos yard. This led to the situation in, inter alia, Kværner Rosenberg in Stavanger and in Egersund became serious. Several hundred Norwegian industrial workplaces were lost. It should now be clear to most people that it might not have been so wise to choose a Spanish yard, even if it was the cheapest one there and then. I think one lesson one should at least draw from this is that thinking more towards whole contracts, and where Norwegian industry can compete in a better way than what we've seen so far is good. That is why I am pleased that there is also a great deal of excitement about thinking towards what the Committee is presenting today. I am also pleased with the proposal to ask the Government to review the competitive situation of our offshore shipyards in relation to other EEA countries. There are major challenges to managing the remaining oil and gas resources on the base in a way that is best for our community. Then there's a lot of reasons we have to take. Not least, we need to be able to take care of and develop the entire petroleum cluster. The worst thing that can happen now is that we're in a situation where we're going to have a dramatic decline in this important industry. Then we will lose a valuable and absolutely necessary competence, which we have spent decades building up in Norway. For the Workers' Party, this is exactly what is very important. Many of the measures that we point to in the resolution are therefore aimed at avoiding a dramatic decline in this sector. Last year we lost about 5,000 jobs in the supplier industry. The decline is only a beginning of a development, if we do not now take active action. Although employment is high right now and it looks pretty good, we know that in a year's time it will slow down, when the projects that are now under construction are moving towards completion. It is that after the expansion of the Worm Lange, as we decided here in the Storting for a short time, there are no other major projects that are ready to be implemented. That is why I am pleased that there is an overall committee today asking the Government to go through a wide range of projects that are coming up in time, and to consider measures to ensure that some of them can be properly implemented and speeded up if possible. There may be one of several contributions to avoid several thousand being permitted and terminated in a short time. It looks too small, and where it looks, it does for a few interesting things. This is perhaps the most alarming thing about Norwegian pedestal right now. The working party therefore believes it is important to get the search activity up. At that time, access to attractive areas must be provided. We agree on a lot in this setting. It's good that the government is now reopening for exploration in the Barents Sea, but there's been an uncertainty about the future exploration in the Barents Sea. I refer again to the chronicle that county rapporteur Helga Pedersen and county councillor at Troms, Paul Dahlø, had in yesterday's VG. That the government will await the results of the three test wells they have now opened, before deciding whether to release several blocks, is probably suitable as an internal medicine in the Government, but it is not a suitable tool to create predictability for the oil industry, nor for the northern part of the country, which is now eager to hold on to the glow created by the Snow White Development so far. The working party believes that the authorities and oil companies have a common responsibility to ensure that the activity on the base is re-shown in the form of land-based jobs. I've been to the supplier industry. But even when the platforms and fields are in operation, people along the coast in large parts of the country have to experience that oil gives us activities and loved jobs on land. The operational organisations and supply bases are central and important in this debate. Many have wondered that the Government of the message adds to a more flexible concession policy, and are concerned that this could lead to downsizing and more centralisation of base tasks. The Minister for Oil and Energy, in a letter to the Committee, has cancelled this. Nevertheless, I am pleased that a majority of the committee in the vote says that the terms of the concession should be maintained. We don't want any uncertainty about this issue. There is a broad consensus that the extraction rate needs to be increased. A completely necessary prerequisite for this is that it gets researched more. That the government is now proposing $1 billion for research funds is good, and that is an important step in the right direction. The return will give us approx. Forty million. kr more for research in the year. That's a good start. However, we believe from the Labour Party that this amount should be raised. So next year, we're going to come back with a proposal to raise it by another $1 billion, so our return is going to be $80 million. kr per. years. I am also pleased that there is such a broad consensus about the method of injecting CO2 to get more oil out of the reservoirs. I think it is important that we manage to realize projects such as: Goldlfaks, which maybe is the project that has come the farthest. It is a very important signal that the Committee and the Stortinget will give on that issue later this evening. We've had petroleum activity on a Norwegian base for almost 40 years. During all these years, the political debate has focused on the environment and fishing resources. That's the way it is now. We've had a high environmental standard in the industry. I believe that we can establish that the petroleum activity has not affected the environment and the fishing resources. But we always have to strive to get even better. Requirements for zero emissions are an important measure, to mention one example. Not only in the northern areas, but also on other parts of the pedestal, we need to impose strict environmental requirements. The message we are debating today was presented at the same time as the revised national budget, where the Government proposed minor changes in the petroleum tax. The working party supports these changes, as they are known. Nevertheless, we are somewhat uncertain whether the grips that the Government in total proposes for the petroleum sector are sufficient to maintain the activity at as high a level as we want, and so that we actually manage to follow the long-term development path. From the Labour Party, we believe that the Government should have re-assessed, for example. volume deductions for tail production, which could have been an important contribution to increasing the rate of extraction and to maintaining the activity at a high level. I am nevertheless pleased that there is a majority to ask the Government to evaluate further incentives for increased tail production. There is at least one important step on the road. We also believe that there should have been a review of the smaller shares of the working party to see if it could also have been a contribution to the more efficient operation of some fields. We also wanted to see if it was possible to find more incentives, so we got more searching. Unfortunately, we have to note that there is no majority in favour of these proposals. But the industry needs predictability. It is therefore necessary to take decisions now so that the industry knows what it has to do with the future. Finally, I would like to address the proposal on which the Labour Party stands alone, and the proposals we are promoting together with other parties. Otherwise, I recommend that the Workers' Party group vote for the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e85	The representative Sylvia Brustad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e90	The representative Brustad repeats this with uncertainty in the Barents Sea. Then I have two questions: Question 1: No longer stands the representative Brustad at the comments in the St.meld setting. No 39 for 1999-2000 from the government of Stoltenberg on this, where you just said you had to wait and look at what results you get? Question 2: With regard to the uncertainty to which the representative constantly refers, how much time is there between her remark about releasing blocks until next year and the Government proposal to release them in the autumn of 2005? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e99	If it were the case that there was no difference between what the government parties stand for in the vote, which is a support for what the government has proposed, and what the Workers' Party says in its comments, then there would have been no problem either, I believe, for the representative Onarheim and the rest of the government parties to support our remarks, where it says that blocks should be published as early as 2005. So now it's not like I'm, on behalf of my party, who is creating uncertainty here. There is an overall part of the country, the whole of North Norway, represented by politicians, the Landsorganisation and employers’ organisations, who say that this has created an uncertainty. I quote from the chronicle of VG yesterday, which I referred to in my main post, where it is said that "The government will await the results of the three very exciting drillings that start in November, before it says yes to searching in new areas. We don't want new breaks next year. We need continuity." So it must be that Onarheim believes that there is a total part of the country in North Norway that is wrong. I actually don't think they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e114	I fully agree with the representative, Sylvia Brustad, that we need to get the search activity up. Therefore, it is disappointing that the Workers' Party does not promote any proposals in this way, but that, prior to the processing of this message, it is going to be in the media and broadcasts as if a proposal had been made to increase the activity, which does not receive a majority on the Stortinget. I just want to show that it was the Labour Party government with the then State Council Olav Akssen that closed up large parts of these areas that the Workers' Party will now open up. And just to refresh the political memory of Sylvia Brustad, I will quote from the Official Journal of Bergen on 29 November 2003. There, the magnificent representative Akssen says the following: "The representative of the Labour Party fears it might be even worse, if Steensnæs doesn't get up and open up for drilling west of the so-called Nordland VI field west of Lofoten." - the same area that he closed earlier. [[President clubs]] The question to the representative Brustad is Why does the Labour Party not promote any proposals in the matter? [[(the president clubs again):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e128	The President must ask the representative to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e134	In the case of Northland VI and the other areas, which are very much debated, we agree with the government parties that it is now reasonable to await the management plan. We also fully agree that it was right to extend the Co-existence Committee with representatives of the environmental and legal sides, so that we have a good basis to know what to do there. There are vulnerable areas, so we need to know where to go, and which way to go. As far as the Barents Sea is concerned, I understand that the representative of Korsberg here is trying to make it a big debate on whether proposals or remarks have been made on the reopening of the Barents Sea beyond what the Government is now in favour of. I have never, for my part, said that the Workers' Party has proposed to release blocks in 2005, but I have said that the Workers' Party is in favour of it through comments, and I say that there is no reason to take the break - or hopefully the art break - that the Government is putting up with, but that we will light up already in 2005. It is precisely in order to ensure predictability and continuity in this important area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e141	The working party and SV are some about a lot of points when it comes to the oil message. It goes on the HMS, it goes on the CO2 when it's on the Gulfak, and it goes on the base business and several other things. But there's one point that we're not sure about, and it's related to what the line change here is now going on, and it's pace. So the working party is asking about the pace of the lead activity, among other things. together with the Progress Party to try to speed up the pace, without taking into account the concerns such as: The government makes up relative to the distribution. In these days when the state council here previously briefed on Snow White, that the project was immature, and that one now sees that the bill ball is on, it doesn't make sense to slow down the pace, to think a little bit more about, and not just run at a high pace, as the Labour Party adds? It doesn't make sense for the Labour Party to also think a little about what happens if a temp runs too high?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e154	It is very clear in the setting that we are thinking about the most vulnerable areas, such as: Northland VI and those closest to the coast, also in connection with the Barents Sea. But we are also concerned that we need to be able to reconcile environmental and fisheries interests with a high level of activity in this area. When it comes to the Barents Sea - because that's what remains, I understand, in relation to what Langeland here is talking about - it's important to be able to give predictability. We are not talking here about some irresponsible treatment, but about being able to give a clear signal: will we light up in 2005, or will we not? It's not even harder. What the government's adding up to is that then we're going to consider whether we're going to. But if we're going to link that question to the debate on the important issue of the whole Snow White Development -- which SV, for the rest, has always been against, and so they've also been against, I understand -- the jobs that are now created in large parts of North Norway, which are very important -- are kind of a completely different matter from what we're talking about here. I don't think we're going to make this disagreement bigger than what it really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e163	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e169	Norwegian oil and gas activities are today the country's most important industry and are emerging at a global level in terms of technology solutions. Petroleum activities employ a total of more than 200,000 people if one includes the supplier industry, and these activities are crucial for many communities along the Norwegian coast. In addition, the oil industry is very important for our nation's economic development, and the Norwegian state, which is both directly and indirectly the largest player on the base, has huge revenues from this activity. High oil prices recently make the oil business likely to contribute nearly 200 billion dollars in the current year, towards initially budgeted 143 billion kroner, and we now have nearly 1000 billion dollars on book from this business. But we've seen in recent years that developments on the base have stagnated. It looks smaller, and we also see that what's being found is much smaller than before. Norwegian pedestal has reached a mature stage, where interest is also decreasing, and competition from other areas has increased significantly in recent years. Those who are going to make the investment decisions, whether they're in Houston or in Stavanger, choose to let their investments go where they throw the most of them. It is therefore important that we, who are responsible for the framework conditions on the Norwegian base, take this inward and show the willingness to make the necessary adjustments to these conditions. If one looks at the forecasts of the investments on the Norwegian pedestal in the coming years, these show a dramatic decline. This will primarily affect the supply and offshore industries and jeopardize thousands of jobs. In the next round, both oil companies and offshore companies are hit, and last but not least, we will have a dramatic decline in the state's revenues from this activity. However, if we wait for revenue to disappear, it's too late to do anything. This is not a business that can stop today, and start up again tomorrow. In this sector, you have to think much more than in others in the long term. It will take many years from investing to getting a return on money. What is it that is needed to maintain the activity of the socket and to ensure value creation and jobs? When the Stortinget dealt with the previous biggest news of petroleum activity in the autumn of 2002, we were invited to make a choice between the weather path or the long-term development path. We also received very clear messages from a group of oil companies, from trade unions to oil companies, about what was going on to achieve this long-term development path. Taking the necessary tax measures, especially for niche and tail production, was one of the measures desired in the industry. Give us access to prospective areas, was another wish, and it was especially the Lofoten-Barents Sea that was interesting. Give us a larger and more predictable contribution to petroleum research, the third wish from the industry. Despite these clear messages from a single industry, the entire notification was attached to the protocol without any intervention. I remember the debate when more people stood on this platform and said that, of course, the long-term development path should be provided, and then voted against the measures needed to ensure this development path. The Progress Party also took the industry seriously this time and proposed the necessary measures, but unfortunately received no support from any other party in this Chamber. This paralysis of action has helped us to be far in the way of the weather. But now we have the opportunity again. Once again, we can influence development and take the necessary steps. The signals from the oil industry are exactly the same as the last, but now the situation has worsened, and the seriousness of the notifications from both trade unions and companies has been reinforced. But what happens? The government has submitted a communication containing some measures to speed up the industry and has also proposed some minor changes in the tax environment in the revised version. It is amazing that government agencies have not yet understood how to cope with our most important industry if we do not take the necessary steps. The so-called measures of the Government in this Communication and in its revision cannot be characterised as other than cosmetic and will only have a marginal impact on the level of activity. Unfortunately, this time the majority of the Biggest has not shown any action and put the closet in place either. The Progress Party is also this time alone to propose the necessary measures and to support an overall oil cluster. We are calling for tax measures such as the reduction of special taxes on new fields and volume deductions that can ensure increased life expectancy and improve the use of resources in the oil fields - all in accordance with the KonKraft signals. In addition, we are promoting proposals to open up petroleum activities throughout the Lofoten-Barents Sea area as of 1 July this year. And last but not least, this time we're also proposing to spend $10 billion on a petroleum-oriented research fund, where the return on this is going to go to research with emphasis on reservoir use. This type of research is also good for the Norwegian state, where the state receives the majority of the increased value creation this research contributes to. So to Snow White. We have now again been informed about large and serious overruns in this project, and we have also received signals about delays. The project remains profitable according to the Council of State, but these exceedances clearly weaken the robustness of the project. We all know that the Snow White project posed major technological challenges, and that some of the technology to be used was to some extent untapped in the past. We also know that such pioneering projects naturally involve economic uncertainty and risk, but that technological experience can often be gained that can be used on later projects. However, this alone cannot defend the serious exceedances we are now seeing. I therefore assume that the Council of State is now fully focused on the further development of the costs of the project and that this will now be brought under control. I also assume that Stortinget is kept constantly informed about this development. I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party. At the same time, I would like to ask that voting be put up in such a way as to give us the opportunity, in a subsidiary way, to support proposal No. 3, from the Labour Party, if our proposal No. Ten shouldn't get a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e192	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e197	The Progress Party wants to emerge in a new political profile. One wants to free oneself from the populist image and appear to be responsible. It came, among other things: expressed last week through an interview in Dagbladet in connection with the Bolärne case, where the party president stands up and talks about the great responsibility of the Progress Party. With reference to the consideration by the Committee on Energy and the Environment of this report, the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection were politicians in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection last week in the Nordic press with claims that have no real root cause. They are disappointed that the other parties will not support the views of the Progress Party, and claim, among other things, that they do. that the Workers' Party is bluffing. Through its statements, the party of progress creates unrest and fear around what the Stortinge means, among other things. in the Harstad environment. When is the Progress Party going to end by promoting the policies of other parties and claiming that it is wrong, and when are they going to start arguing for their own policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e206	I would strongly reject the claim that the Progress Party would create uncertainty in the development of the northern regions. The Progress Party even has a note on developments in the Harstad environment, as the representative points out here. If the working party wants to do something, they could join it. On the other hand, we have made proposals to open all the areas in the north that the Workers' Party through the former State Council has closed the Akselsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e211	I am pleased that the Government in this matter, unlike the issues relating to Norwegian hydropower management, has not chosen to support itself unilaterally to the Progress Party. SV is behind all of the Roman numerals in the vote, and the Party of Advancement is happy enough to take part in a few of the majority proposals, but not in IV. Here, the Stortinget Government calls for proposals for appropriate instruments to stimulate the use of CO2 as pressure support for increased extraction on Norwegian soil. Furthermore, the Stortinget Government is asking for an assessment of further incentives for increased tail production - which is what the Progress Party is saying they are in favour of. My question to the Progress Party is whether there is a newly developed allergy to CO2 that means that the Progress Party does not support the proposal, or is the problem that CO2 is to be pumped down and not released into the atmosphere? Or is the Progress Party going to support this proposal subsidiaryly, so that there will be an overall increase asking the Government to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e220	On the part of the Progress Party, we are not going to subsidize this proposal for CO2 injection. As we have written in our remarks, of course, we have nothing against using CO2 injection as pressure support or otherwise, but we want the oil companies themselves to find out whether it is profitable or not. We do not want to contribute to additional costs that may be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e225	It's always interesting to listen to Waksdal's posts, because they're predictable. They consist essentially of three main points: the government is paralysed, the party of progress is strong, the government is silent, the party of progress is moving, the government understands nothing, the party of progress understands most. In the three main points, we can gather the articles of the Progress Party in this room. In connection with a question of what I experience as a black paint of the possibilities of Norwegian socket in connection with the award of the 18th concession round and in relation to the tax adaptations proposed by the Government, today's business life on 1 June 2004 writes that UK investment companies say that the tax conditions that are now coming are in themselves an argument to bet on Norwegian socket. In addition to the fact that the interest for the 18th concession round was significant, was surprisingly large, how does the response from the companies correspond to the black paint that Øyvind Vaksdal expresses?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e233	The representative Rahm claimed that the Progress Party in these matters is predictable. That's right. Unlike most of the others here, we have a very tough course to help this industry to continue high activity on Norwegian continental shelf. When we want to use tax havens, it's just to keep this level of activity high. It is true that the last concession round was large and wide, but the signals I have received from the oil companies are that there is not the great belief that there is much here anyway - but there are many new and interesting areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e240	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e243	A few words to Snow White-Saka first: The council has provided an explanation of what has happened, a temporary explanation - it was not particularly thick - but he comes back with further explanations throughout the week and to the autumn, as it was said. It takes notice of SV. We're assuming that the State Council will follow up Statoil in a different way from what it looks like it's been made for now. SV does not want to take responsibility for this matter from Statoil, but we would like to point out that SV got it right because the pace at which this matter was run was too high. It was also illustrated today. Statoil would not actually build Snow White. They didn't think it was worth it. But with the help of some tax measures that were taken in the election campaign, it became more desirable to start developing. A tax haven, so Statoil said, "Yes, yes, if the politicians want to build it out, we have to do it anyway, because we're probably going to spend money on it." That is why it is important to maintain that this is not just Statoil's responsibility; it is the political environment in this room, together with the Government, that is responsible at all times. There was a strong desire in this hall to speed up the pace and open the Barents Sea that was the driving force behind this. It was not primarily Statoil that turned this forward, it was this hall. We should not forget today when everyone, except the batch I represent, sits in a glass house and complains about excesses in a matter on which they themselves spew up the pace. The final calculation will be exciting to see. It is impossible to stop this project now. SV tried just after it was started, with a Document No. Eight proposals, but they didn't hear it. Now you have to thank yourself for the amount of money that appears and the final amount. The center party has a suggestion to get a new PUD. SV is not initially going to support it. We need to have a discussion beyond the evening. We probably won't support such a plan, because we've been against the reality of this project all along. Then the rest of the Stortinget might have to take responsibility for getting a new PUD - not us who were against Snow White. So to the other thing, the kerosene message: Let me start by taking up the suggestions that SV is on or in favour of, and then thank the case spokesman for his work. I now mean that quite a lot of what SV has done in collaboration with the Government, the Labour Party and others, and that is agreed here today, there is reason to be a little satisfied with. Not least we have progressed in relation to using CO2 injection to drive out more oil from existing wells. For SV, this is a strategy to increase the activity where we already are, not pressurise, as the Progress Party and the Labour Party do, to increase the leadership activity in vulnerable north areas, ecologically important north areas, where we find Europe's food barrels. We have managed several times before to get a majority in Stortinget to get this out with CO2 injection, but little has happened from the Government's side. Therefore, SV found it necessary to develop a relatively comprehensive Document No. 8 proposals for increasing extraction rates and reducing climate problems. That proposal has also been discussed in this Chamber, and I think SV has contributed to a step forward when it comes to CO2 injection. That's good, because this can lead to solving a lot of problems, not just increasing the extraction rate. Of course, it can also help to reduce the climate problem and to keep Norway in line when it comes to technology development. That's good. Now we just want to rush on to the government council, so this will come as soon as possible. It does not need to be in 2006, it may be a lot earlier, if it only inserts resources into it. This is what SV will be asking for, because I now see that the Council of State has concluded agreements with some EU countries to help reduce their climate problems, by importing CO2 to use it as pressure support on Norwegian base. It's an offensive grip, which I think is positive from the Council of State. Let's also remind you that if Norway hadn't had such a high CO2 tax as we have, and as many lots of times have tried to reduce -- some times with luck, some times without -- we wouldn't have had the early technology developments that we have, when it comes to the CO2 separation that we're now using on Sleipner. This was confirmed by former director Olav Fjell in an interview with me last summer before he left. The CO2 tax has contributed to the development of key environmental technologies that can become an export article. A few weeks ago, we heard that Statoil is exporting this technology to the Netherlands. Soon other markets will open up. The environment is responding. Strict emission requirements are met. It illustrates this. In relation to the Snow White case, we are somewhat surprised that the government party is somewhat restrained when it is involved in a strategy to use emissions from the gas power plant at Snow White offensively, for example. on the Goldlfak field. If the government had just done that, she could have got something back from the environmental threat. Bondevik I left at a gas station. No builds Bondevik II gas power plants. Now they have the chance of using snow white to inject into Goldfaks and actually spend money on it. I expect one to go harder to work to get this done. SV's profile in oil and gas policy is lower pace, defensive pace, pace according to environment and ecology. We can't keep that boundary. There is too much pressure to speed up the pace in this matter. Nevertheless, we are pleased that we have managed to balance a couple of points with the government party. SV is pleased that the co-existence selection is now being expanded with legal and environmental competence. This is something we lack. For example, if we: to speed up the work on petroleum-free zones, we now have the environmental competence in this co-existence selection which can contribute to this. This is important. The Workers' Party takes decisions relating to petroleum-free zones at the 2002 Land Meeting, and the Sem Declaration has it in its obligations, so we hope that this will now be followed up by the Government and the selection. SV is also pleased that we are getting a number of comments to address the conditions of competition that Norwegian Socket has been subjected to through the fact that one has actually been fined in other countries in connection with contracts that you have received. What happened to Snow White was that tradesmanship in Norway, especially in the yard industry, were fighting for Snow White to be replaced. Later, one saw that the contracts sailed past the entire yard industry in Norway to another country. And now it turns out that in frigate cases, there's a driving force with cheating on this yard in relation to the conditions of supply that have expired. It is then important that another government intervention takes place, looks at the conditions of competition, ensuring that any contracts are split up so that the Norwegian shipbuilding industry gets work. They sense that after the loss they had with Snow White, among other things. Rosenberg became a ramma, Ålesund became a ramma, and many jobs disappeared because Norwegian industry did not become a priority, as SV wanted. SV is also pleased that a multiplicity states that the concession terms are firm in relation to the basic policy. One should not have the flexibility that the Government actually provided. You should ensure that there are jobs on land. It makes sense, it's fine. What's important in addition is this with the zero emission philosophy. They say we have to have zero emissions. But when you go into the concrete, you can't say what zero means. Here are challenges in line. SV has a nuanced and balanced policy that focuses on the environment, but also on the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e275	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e278	It's interesting to hear Langeland's reasoning about the exceedances on Snow White and what we said about it, but it's probably as simple as SV's never wanted to expand Snow White, just as little as they've wanted most of the other expansions on Norwegian Socket. I'm going to give Langeland the right idea that if we had other people, we wouldn't have had any exceedances. For my own part, I have to add that the trust in parts of the industry is probably relatively thin at the moment. I'll get back to that in my post later. But after all: Does Langeland and SV, with the unfortunate situation Statoil and the partners have sat in on Snow White, think that this is the time to twist the knife around the wound, so to speak, by withdrawing the emission permit for the energy plant? Can Langeland quantify the economic consequences that will further affect the licensing partners if SV's proposals are to have a majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e285	The knife SV twists around, we do well to rotate as much around Halleraker and the big crowd as on Statoil, precisely because one was so irresponsible to push up the pace with different measures to realize this project. When the bill comes, the bulk of the money has to be so honest that it takes its share of the responsibility. That's what SV is asking for, nothing more than that. It is quite right that SV has gone against Snow White all the way. I also said that in my post. We haven't gone against all the expansions. What we have done, and what now turns out to be a success factor, is that we set some environmental conditions for the projects: it applies, for example. Kristin and the demand for CO2-free gas power plants, same thing as Grane, and the Worm voted for us in the end. So we're going to have a policy that really shows that it's possible to have solutions different from what the multiple here decides. The plural is primarily concerned with building up. SV is listed by: good for expansion, but we set some conditions for the environment not to be framed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e292	The President is happy that it is forbidden to carry a knife!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e295	The Socialist Left Party has recently focused on tail production, and they claim that they are now a supporter of getting more out of the oil fields they have previously voted against that we should expand. They write the page up and down about how important this is. But when the Progress Party and the Labour Party promote concrete proposals on tax incentives, they jump off. The same applies to our proposal for increased research efforts, focusing on resource use. This shows that the party's focus on this is really just empty rhetoric. And then they've now joined with the government parties to build a new airlock, which this time is based on CO2 as pressure support on the base - costing what it will cost. Is this not enough an example of imposing new costs on the players on the pedestal, which in turn would put the whole business at risk? Then they get what they really want, namely to shut down the whole petroleum business.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e304	In this reply, let me also answer the representative Halleraker's question about CO2 from Snow White. It's an anchor when it comes to the gas power plant, which the Ministry of the Environment treats, and now has a possibility to go in and see if anything can be done about the conditions, so that one can use CO2. The cost of this is a complicated problem, because it's also going to be a plus. Statoil says it's going to cost $6 billion to initiate CO2 injection on the Gulfaks, but Petoro and the Government, and today the bulk of the population, want to move on to that line. So then the gas power plant on the Snow White is a golden ratio. So to the Progress Party and "empty rhetoric," and everything that SV is against. I think I can say that if the Progress Party had its policy on Norwegian base, we would not have been in the forefront of environmental technology, we would not have done what we did on Sleipner, because there would have been no CO2 taxes. Everything should be free of charge for the oil companies with the Progress Party's policy. SV choose to say that the environment costs. That illustrates me today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e311	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e314	In the 1970s, prospective politicians made important decisions to ensure that the revenues from petroleum extraction would benefit the entire community. This is also an important premiss in St.meld. No 38, which shows a way for forward-looking petroleum policy, adapts to today's challenges. In the message, there is more to it than that. provided important guidance for: increasing extraction from existing fields increases lead activity to reduce the cost level of Norwegian continental shelf to further develop the competence of the Norwegian petroleum cluster to focus on health, environment and safety The long-term development path shall be used as a basis for petroleum policy, the infrastructure shall be used efficiently and the research effort shall be strengthened. The objective of the extraction of oil and gas to take account of nature and the environment has been an important premise for the governance of its policy in relation to the petroleum industry on the Norwegian continental shelf. The strong focus on the environment has led one today to show a generally positive trend when it comes to taking environmental considerations into account in Norwegian petroleum industry. Among other things, the objective of zero emissions has meant that the petroleum industry has implemented a wide range of measures to reduce emissions to the sea and CO2 emissions per year. Produced device reduced by 2 pst. from 2001 to 2002. I am pleased that a multiple today clearly provides the Government with support to evaluate different instruments to use CO2 injection to increase the extraction on a Norwegian base. CO2 injection can help achieve the climate policy objectives, while increasing gas pressure can generate more hydrocarbons from existing oil wells. However, it is not possible to undermine the fact that there are significant economic and technological challenges associated with this technology. These challenges, however, cannot be used as a reason for not trying all possible ways to use this technology to get more oil. When opened for further search in the least vulnerable areas of the Barents Sea, it is based on the impact assessment for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea and the coexistence report between fisheries and the petroleum industry, which clearly shows that fisheries and petroleum activities can be combined in these areas. However, the operations in the Barents Sea will be subject to more stringent requirements than the companies otherwise on the base. There shall be no discharge at sea during normal operation. Today, the Christian People's Party is very pleased that the decision to wait with test drilling outside Lofoten to a holistic management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea is supported by a broad majority in Stortinget. The aggregate values in this area are so large that we have to be absolutely certain of the sequences before we might start doing any further activity here. We have recently seen signs that the Norwegian base has become less attractive to the company to look for. The applications for the 18th Search Concession Round indicated that, in spite of this, there is a great deal of interest in the search blocks that were illuminated, and the allocation has largely been well received. I am pleased that the Government gets multiples for all the actions presented in the message, with the exception of individual items when it relates to the cost image. Land management measures, the desire for a broader image, framework conditions, cost reductions, effective regulation and research and development are measures that will have a short and long-term impact on existing and new oil companies, suppliers and land-based industries. The large oil companies represent a competence and a bearer that is entirely decisive for further developments on the Norwegian base. At the same time, it is important that new and smaller companies can enter the Norwegian base as important associates. These companies can provide new impetus, including: for tail production. Increased extraction from existing fields by a few percentage points will give large values to the company and to the Norwegian community. I am pleased that this policy is so closely associated with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e357	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e360	If I understood the representative of Onarheim correctly in a line change instead, the government parties will have continuity in the Barents Sea, but they will evaluate the search results first. In that case, there can be no environmental resistance as a matter of principle which hinders drilling in 2005. I did not understand it either, as if the representative Liones had such a basic resistance. All petroleum activities depend on continuity, also in the north. In North Norway, one is also dependent on activity. Why, then, not facilitate new drilling in 2005, as the Labour Party suggests, so that we can identify the possibilities more quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e369	Drilling is planned to take place in three wells during the autumn of 2004 and in the summer of 2005 - in summer 2005. The results of the drilling here will be of great importance for the further interest in the area, and it will be important to design a new concession round based on it. It's good petroleum management. It's actually a long tradition to evaluate all the available information about the scope and the device before a concession round is fixed. Before this round, companies will be able to point out areas that they find interesting. Thereafter, the Governing Boards shall take final decisions. Had we basically had our opponents of activity in the Barents Sea, we wouldn't have been on the decisions for now, but we have to be sure that what we do can be without harm to nature, to the environment and to the rich life that is in the sea. So first we want to have all the results on the table and know enough, and then we're going to decide on any increased activity. Everyone wants to light it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e379	I must admit that the Christian People's Party is a party that still surprises me. I have previously asked questions about what the Christian People's Party wants with Norwegian hydropower supply. In this case, there is reason to ask what is the Christian People's Party really want with Norwegian petroleum resources. It sounds beautiful when they from the Christian People's Party talk about the importance of sustainable development. The reality of Norwegian petroleum policy remains that the last oil should be pumped up as quickly as possible. The gas will probably take a little longer, but also here the haste has turned out to be an unwise strategy. As far as Snow White is concerned, it might be tempting to say, what did we say? But it does not help much in relation to future projects. Maybe the giant excesses give cause for concern, as well as a prayer that they don't get bigger?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e386	I'm a little curious about this question. In my answer instead, I just mentioned that the Christian People's Party will expect the management plan to lead, before we can decide on any further development, operation and activity in the area outside Lofoten. All the natural resources that we manage have to be seen in a context and in the light of a sustainable development. That means e.g. that the Christian People's Party will not enter to open up to petroleum activity outside the Lofoten until it is reasonably safe to do so in a defensive manner, even in relation to the fishing resources in this area. It is not good policy to tear down the basis from the resource base represented by fishing. Fish is simply a resource that should last for many years -- the oil business might only last for 40-50 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e393	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e396	Since its inception almost 40 years ago, oil industry has been characterised by growth and increasing production. But now oil production has begun to fall, while gas production is still growing. New findings now account for only approx. 25 pst. of what is produced annually. A high level of investment in industry is expected in the coming years. However, from 2010, it is assumed that the level of investment may have fallen to about half of today’s level. In addition, word dryness for supplier companies occurs long before petroleum production falls, and this can have dramatic employment effects. Several measures have been proposed to keep up-to-date and many of them are currently supported by a solid majority. Among other things, it is stated that when the companies are allocated an area, they shall actively explore and expand the area. In this setting, a more joyful person has become more concerned with the environment than was originally provided. I would like to mention the proposal to use CO2 as pressure support for increased oil extraction. It's not often a person can get into both the bag and the bag, but we do it here. By using CO2, we get rid of a major environmental problem and have the added effect that we can extract more oil and get more revenue. The coexistence committee would look at coexistence between fish and oil, to say the least. The majority of the Committee is in favour of extending this range to persons with legal and environmental competence. This promises well, so that we get a nuanced and correct result from this sample. A comprehensive management plan for the Lofoten-Barents Sea is expected in spring 2006. A detailed assessment of the exempted areas, and also the establishment of petroleum-free fishing zones, will be carried out when available. The centre party believes, as SV, that it is important that we are already starting work on this. In terms of cost reductions, we understand that this is necessary. Mature fields are characterised by declining production but still have high operating costs. The government has several good proposals that are supported. But the review of the base structure on land has too vague a content of the message. The majority state that the concession conditions which impose requirements on coastal bases shall be maintained. In recent years oil companies have become more short-term in their research and development priorities, and it is therefore more demanding to ensure the necessary technological development. In particular, research that can ensure increased extraction rates is time-critical. There's a majority to strengthen the research and innovation fund by NOK 1 billion, but we finally went on our own to raise this to NOK 2 billion. I think we needed this money for research, innovation and development. So to Snow White. The Central Party has considered it necessary to promote the proposal distributed on the desks of the representatives. In his statement, State Council Steensnæs said earlier today that there was an incomplete picture of the situation, and that the robustness of the project was weak. It shows that what has now happened is changing the project so much that it is most appropriate to ask for a new plan for the development and operation of the fields. We need to get a better understanding of why the project is cracking. Let's get -- we could call it -- a revised PUD, so the Storting can decide on the new scope of the project and the new costs. The purpose is not to stop the expansion. The center party doesn't want a rematch, but we want to get a more realistic picture of the project. The council said today that he would come back to Stortinget in a suitable way for the harvest. A suitable way could be, for example: be in the form of a revised PUD. I would like to address the proposals that the Central Party is all about in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e417	The representative, Inger S. None, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e422	I am pleased to note that the representative Enger from the Central Party believes it is important to maintain activity in this sector. But I think it's strange that the Center Party wants to be the best friend in the districts, while they're opposed to the largest project ever to create profitable jobs in economically poor areas of our country, namely in Nord-Troms and Finnmark. The centre party voted against the Snow White extension and will not allow for full-year petroleum activities now, but will await the management plan. In addition, the Centre Party will have permanent petroleum-free areas off the coast of North Norway. The question is whether the Centre Party is only too subsidized to our northernmost part of the country, but to activities that can provide value creation. What does the Center Party think you're going to live off in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e429	It was interesting to get so many different angles on this. With regard to rural policy, we are quite clear there, but we believe that we need to have a general rural policy and strengthen it in many areas, so that we do not become so vulnerable. In addition, we feel that we are dependent on looking at several sides of the oil business. We're here to get more out of the oil fields that already exist. We're in favour of CO2 pressure support, which fortunately a majority voted in favour of in that context. We agree with the Government in a lot of things, but we are skeptical about oil extraction at Lofoten, and we believe that in the case of the Barents Sea, we must await a comprehensive management plan. We believe that is wise, so that we can see a sustainable policy in the context. There's a look at ecology, economics and social conditions. We have to make sure that we have a whole thing in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e439	SV and the Center Party stand together about a lot in this setting. But at one point, we're separating layers, and it's about the Research and Innovation Fund. Here, the center part will raise an extra 1 billion kroner without setting clear conditions for what this money will be used for. On the other hand, it is clear that the increased return from the Fund is to be used for long-term and fundamental research aimed at the petroleum sector, with priority being given mainly to the field of energy-environment interception and research-based innovation/demonstration of CO2 deposition solutions, with a particular focus on the long-term impact of marine emissions. My question is therefore: does the Centre Party disagree with such a strategy and priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e446	It's true, as Vaggen Malvik says, that the Center Party and SV are united on a very large number of proposals. This might be one of the suggestions we should have talked about. I want to say that both proposals are very good, and actually I think we agree quite well. The SV proposal is more oriented towards the environment than ours, in fact more than the majority proposal is. Our proposal must be seen as wider than the SV's proposal is. One should not ignore the fact that a lot of research and innovation in this field also focuses on environmental improvements, which are, therefore, very important. There is also a lot of the goal of the research, and I would like to mention the CO2 charge, for example. works in the right direction. Our proposal will yield twice as much return as SV's fund, and that is an advantage that we should not put under the chair in this context either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e456	The representative, Mr Enger, was in his speech concerned with the basic policy of the oil and gas industry. There I think we share the perception that there is a need for concessional conditions that ensure that we have land-based effects of off-shore activity. However, it turns out that when we discuss basic policy, there will be a step of protest around the country, because one is not in a way willing to make use of the basic policy according to the situation and the development of the oil industry in general. My question is: does Inger Enger believe that the bases as they are today are a kind of defined structure that is not to be changed, or to what extent will the Center Party also be with and both discuss and let the companies assess in what way it is natural to build up future bases in relation to where the activity actually takes place?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e465	It is quite right that a majority was very concerned about basic policy, that is, how the continental part of the oil extraction is to be done. A majority is in favour of those who have a concession continuing, and it must be maintained in the same way. The government was a little vague in the message that you could look at new things, to say it kind of soluble. We believe that it is important to comply with the concession requirements, because this will have ring-fenced effects on local communities. It's not just, just saying it's not right for us now, we're moving it a little bit. There are a lot of jobs in the districts we are talking about here. For example: Sogn and Fjordane must have a security that, as long as there is oil extraction off the coast there, those base areas must be fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e472	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e475	The left is well pleased that the Government’s view on the award of concessions in Lofoten and in the Barents Sea during the treatment of this matter now has a broad majority in Stortinget behind it. The left shall still be a driver in the process of placing a decisive emphasis on the environmental aspect when the framework for petroleum activity is created. It is well known that the Left has worked to open up petroleum industry outside the Lofoten and in the Barents Sea. The government's decision is based on a compromise where there was no activity in Lofoten, but yes to reopening for drilling in parts of the Barents Sea. The left is clear that oil protection equipment should be strengthened in general and in northern areas in particular, so that we are better equipped to deal with possible accidents related to transport and operations. This is most necessary irrespective of the extent to which the Norwegian side of the border is opened for oil extraction. Russia is expected to expand significantly for oil extraction in the Barents Sea, resulting in a large increase in transport along our coast. The left is satisfied with the changes in petroleum tax announced by the Government in the revised national budget. This tax package, in our view, will lead to increased bets on tail production and marginal extraction and bring more smaller companies into the activity on the pedestal. I'm a little surprised by the huge tax credits from the oil industry. The demands come at the same time as the industry has solid profitability. The level of the cost of Norwegian socket is significantly higher than in other countries and needs to be reduced. This is primarily the responsibility of the companies. The fact that the company has a job to do when it comes to cost control is evidenced by the fact that large cost exceedances of development projects. In the view of the Left, giving large tax breaks in a situation where companies have good profitability and high cost overruns will not give incentives to address the challenges that industry itself has to deal with when it comes to cost reduction. If you look at the tax rates of these companies alone, they're high. But let's not forget that this is payment to the community for the use of a resource. It is access to this resource that gives the oil companies good profitability. Their accounts reveal that they are among the most profitable in Norway. When I'm abroad, or when we have visits from other countries, they often ask me how Norway went from being one of Europe's poorest countries to becoming one of the world's richest countries in 100 years. The answer is simple: the taxation of hydropower and the taxation of petrolum business that prices a community's use of its resources. On the left, the Kyoto commitments are serious, and on the left, there is great faith in CO2 injection as pressure support on Norwegian soil. CO2 injection has clear environmental benefits by reducing greenhouse gas emissions as it will lead to increased extraction rates. The left is, therefore, very pleased that the majority here in this room would like to attend a discussion about what means would be advisable to stimulate the increased use of CO2 as pressure support. Norwegian companies are well represented in international surveys of oil and gas companies' environmental standards, and creative technological solutions characterise the activities of the Norwegian continental shelf in many ways. The combination of strong professional environments and more stringent environmental requirements can make Norway a transitional country within an environmentally friendly petroleum industry. Having foreign companies in Norway ensures our lack and competition, while ensuring the Norwegian supplier industry important and good opportunities to market itself against international operators. Our technology environment and our technology skills before this industry and before the supplier industry are resources that we have to take care of and develop further. It is particularly gratifying for the Left that a majority in the Stortinget are now in favour of expanding the co-existence group with representatives with environmental and legal competence. I believe that the co-existence group will gain enhanced integrity by also including its interests in the environment, not just its fisheries and petroleum industries. I can ensure that environmental pipelines are given the Left as alliance partners in the creation of petroleum-free zones where the care of environmental interests so warrants. Let there be no doubt: the left will work hard for petroleum-free zones in the management plan to come in 2006. The left will have a permanent protection of the Lofoten against petroleum development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e498	In my contribution, I will focus on the northern part of our country, with the challenges and opportunities that lie there, challenges and opportunities that lie in establishing a new industry, the petroleum industry, while at the same time taking care of what we have. Then everyone knows that we're talking about the relationship to the traditional fishing industry and the farming industry. The starting point in the north is that we have large areas and large natural resources. Compared to the petroleum resources, there is little reason to believe other than that much is still unknown. So it's a little bit too many arrows in the north point in the wrong direction. The closure of the fishing industry, tightening up and deportation are issues that we all too often face in our reality. This is a trend that we have to stop. It must be a national responsibility to turn that trend around. We have the resources, and it's important to us that we are allowed to use them. Although some in the north are uncertain as to how this new petroleum industry will affect our future, there should be no doubt that there are great expectations of what will happen in the Barents Sea. We clearly see that the fishing industry, which has so far been the bearer of the settlement on our coast, is not able to take this responsibility alone. The overall objective must be to make the Barents Sea one of the future centres of gravity in the Norwegian petroleum industry. It requires predictability and continuity of the oil industry, local business and local and regional politicians. Let it be clear, however: in the north you do not want petroleum activity for the sake of activity. The activity must provide value creation and ring-effects for local and regional businesses. You don't want to accept a situation where you become a pier, where you have to sit and watch that resources are being carried away. From the north, active land-use policies are required, with location of base and supply points and obligations for oil companies to use local and regional businesses. In the north you're very clear that you don't want to destroy the industries we have, industries that have made it even live up there. It involves a strong and decisive focus on co-existence and on finding sustainable environmental solutions. It wants to develop a separate environmental standard for the Barents Sea, involving zero emissions, landing and handling of boreholes, the use of the highest technological standard, monitoring and oil protection that is best in the world, and, last but not least, co-existence with fisheries and farming. Harstad has had the status of the oil town in the north. Recent developments have caused local and regional concerns about this status. Statoil has taken its responsibility seriously, while there is every reason to be critical of how Hydro has behaved. The presence of the Oil Directorate is also something it focuses on. I believe it is important to be ready and agree that Harstad, with its well-established oil environment, must be further developed as a Nordic competence centre within oil and gas. Co-existence is a crucial key to fulfilling our vision of a part of the country that flourishes in the future. The message mentions this and has, among other things, in this context, reference is made to a report by the so-called coexistence group. The Committee, in a letter to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, has asked the Ministry to take a view on a report by the Norwegian Fisheries Team that what is referred to in the Storing Communication of the conclusions of this report is the industry's subsidiary position. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has replied to the Committee's letter and does not reject the suggestion made by the Norwegian Fiskerlag. I'm not going to go any closer to that matter, it's going to lead too far. I would nevertheless like to be clear that coexistence must be based on respect for each other's views. The representation of the Ministry of Oil and Energy in the notification may appear to be an attempt to misrepresent the industry's position. I am also very pleased with the proposal to extend the co-existence committee, and I expect the committee to have a sensible agenda. Finally, the newspaper Nordlys had a editorial on June 2 entitled "In Oil Russ". The manager was quite a scratch on a concrete play-out in relation to the Storting's treatment of the oil message. The output was perceived by the author of the lead so that no restrictions must be placed on future petroleum activities in North Norway and in the north. The leader's rhetoric is self-responsive. For me, however, there is no doubt that we must achieve coexistence - and we must - all contribute. The fishing and farming industry will not accept overrun. I do not think that would be politically viable or possible either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e524	From some teams, including in this room, a few impressions that the state, through its involvement, can contribute to today's level of extraction on the base continuing into eternity if only we, as politicians, show power of action. No, it's probably not like that. We must all take inward recognition that Norwegian pedestal is in a more mature phase, and that this presents the whole nation with new challenges. Therefore, it is gratifying that the Government is aware of this and presents a big message that points to a number of measures that can ensure long-term value creation. It is also gratifying to note that the notification and the proposed measures are well received by the industry. 18th Concession Round is the most comprehensive call for blocks of time, which were also met with great interest. A total of 16 companies were granted a total of 16 new extraction permits of 46 blocks. Here's an interesting mix of small and large companies and also companies that are new on Norwegian base. The licensing policy, including the return rules, is also amended to ensure a rapid and effective exploration of the specific areas allocated. The Government aims to implement annual concession rounds covering all mature areas of Norwegian soil, as well as to organise concession rounds in immature areas with a scale and frequency that meet the need for resource growth. Thus, the government meets the objective of increased access to land and thereby contributes to increased exploration activity. The government also contributes to the notification of petroleum to the benefits of the tax system, which implies that the 30 pst exemption. divided over only four years, by 7.5 pst. per 1 % years. The income is known to be deducted from the estimated corporate tax on normal returns and net of operating and financial costs and investment depreciation over only six years, or 16 2/3 pst. per 1 % years. Therefore, in relation to other industrial activities, the petroleum activity on the Norwegian base has good tax conditions on normal returns. However, the industry has wanted a halving of the special tax of 25 p.m., which thus cancels after costs, depreciation and income have been deducted. Much of the debate before and after the notification has been addressed to this one, namely the halving of the special tax. I believe this has diverted the focus from many other positive elements contained in the message we are handling today. Although the specific level of taxation is assigned to the Financial Committee, the issue is most relevant to the communication we are debating today. In winter, the KonKraft Committee presented a report that estimated that halving the special tax would increase the value creation and net contribution to gross tax proceeds of DKK 8 billion per year. years, which, in a 30-year current value perspective, would provide a significant additional return for good purposes for the nation. We were many, even in the Right, who were fascinated by such a dynamic power in the petroleum industry. In the revised national budget, this issue is devoted to a great deal of space, and indeed the whole of 30 pages are devoted to this topic. Here it is explicitly stated that the KonKraft Committee's assumptions are wrong, or at best based on a completely different understanding of reality. The KonKraft Committee's tax proceeds calculations were based on an oil price of $15 barrel, which is very low. As we know, we've had a persistently high oil price in recent years, and an oil price at the average level in the last year, beyond the 30 dollar barrel, would actually give a sample surface of 18 billion dollars a year and 10 billion dollars a year with the 24 dollar barrel. So the disagreement in this reality situation is going to give a proceeds of NOK 26 billion per year. years based on current oil price. In a 30-year perspective, this is huge sums. Such disagreements about reality and forecasts between authorities and industry cannot continue. As a legislative and admissibility authority, the Storting must be able to expect that the historical understanding we have had of the assumptions for fiscal and other framework conditions is somewhat in line. The oil and gas industries are not any industry. Petroleum resources are the property of the Norwegian people, a non-renewable asset, and it is therefore important that we manage it in a way that restores maximum value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e550	As the Government states in the Communication, Norwegian petroleum activity is at a crossroads, where it is very important that an expected strong decrease in activity level is mitigated and that its consequences are reduced. With a background of low search activities over many years, there is a lack of large, new findings. In order to ensure jobs and not least the competence built up over many years, there is a need to step up the search activities, while at the same time being dependent on making new, major findings. The government in the oil news notes that new large findings can only be made in the Lofoten-Barents Sea area. I had expected the government to put up an offensive in the development of the petroleum sector in the north, but unfortunately, the government does not take the consequences of its own analysis, and does not have the power to make decisions accordingly. The drilling shall again be interrupted after the exploration activity of the harvest and winter in the Barents Sea has been completed. North exploration began in the Barents Sea in 1980, with a preliminary peak in exploration activity as early as 1985. After this period, there has been no power to obtain continuous and planned exploration activities in the sea areas. Continuity, predictability and access to interesting areas are necessary prerequisites for the development of an industry based on the oil and gas activities in North Norway. This is why next harvests will be important, including for the oil and gas industries. What is the consequence of next year's election if the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party get a majority and form government? SV and the Center Party are honest and quite clear: they say no. When the Workers' Party was in position, they, by the Council of State, closed off the areas. Then, when the same Axis comes in opposition and is a magnificent representative, he will open the same areas he himself closed. The representative Brustad says that you want to open the Barents Sea and open areas to get the activity going, but does not suggest this. When the same representative, Brustad, boasts of his party traps in the north, Councillor Paul Dahlø and County rapporteur Helga Pedersen, who, in a chronicle in yesterday's VG, wants to gain more activity, it is not related, because the Labour Party does not propose this. You can't get anywhere in this room without making suggestions and actually getting a vote on them. So if there's someone who spreads uncertainty and is unclear in this area, it's to the most extent the Working Party and no one else-- at least not the Advance Party. We've had the clear line all along that we want to open these areas. It may be a little interesting later in the debate to hear what the Labour Party really thinks about it. I also expect the representative Olav Akselsen to explain why he has constantly changed his position on this matter. Petroleum activities have started in North Norway with the Snow White extension. Before the expansion began, it was estimated that the Nordic industry would provide goods and services for approx. 600 million. kr for this extension. Already now, two years before the expansion is completed - according to plan, in any case - Nordic companies have delivered for approx. $1.8 billion for the first big project in the north. Petroleum activities in the north will be subject to the most stringent environmental requirements in the world. These requirements have been further developed on the basis of 35 years of successful North Sea petroleum activities, which have otherwise been carried out without any environmental impact having an impact on the marine environment. So there are about 60 wells drilled in the Barents Sea without any negative environmental effects. Therefore, it should be fully possible to advance the activity in the northern regions and to open up further exploration activities, as the Progress Party has proposed in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e569	The petroleum sector accounts for 28 pst. of the total CO2 emissions in Norway. Our objective in relation to the Kyoto Protocol is that emissions in the 2008-2012 period should not be more than 1 pst. higher than in 1990. Emissions from this sector are estimated to increase by 2.9 million tonnes of CO2 from 2002 until 2006. From 1991 to 2001, emissions in the sector increased by 63 pst. In order to reduce Norwegian CO2 emissions, substantial measures are necessary in the petroleum sector. In order to achieve the necessary management of the emissions from Norwegian socket, limitations in extraction rates are absolutely necessary, in parallel with an increased effort to reduce the emission intensity. SV therefore wants the Stortinget to ask the Government to instruct oil companies to draw up action plans to reduce CO2 emissions on the base. In our opinion, it is irresponsible to follow the long-term development path, as the Government proposes. The long-term development path will lead to enormous greenhouse gas emissions. This cannot therefore be the basis of future petroleum policy. In addition, it is worth recalling that, in the context of the treatment of the previous oil notification, the Ministry confirmed that the so-called long-term development path provided for the opening of the vulnerable northern regions. Our petroleum policy must be based on the fact that oil and gas are non-renewable resources that must be managed in the long term. The level of investment and extraction must take account of the environment and the responsibility for future generations. A reduced rate of oil and gas extraction will result in a much longer period of circulation of the ring-fenced effects of oil and gas activities. It is therefore far more sensible to invest in the development of satellite fields around existing installations and tail production before the development of new stand-alone fields is launched. It is this that has been SV's goal, to move the focus from the vulnerable northern regions to the oil fields already operating in the North Sea today. We want to end the oil companies messing with the lucrative inner fillet, while they leave the rest of the resources behind when they look at new, untouched areas. Political direction of the activity on Norwegian continental shelf is necessary and the oil and gas production rate is reduced in terms of the nation’s value creation, fair distribution and natural resource extraction and the environment. SV will therefore reduce the rate of oil exploration and expansion of oil and gas fields, while wanting to increase investment in new renewable energy sources, research and education. In this way, we can lay the foundation for a twist away from a fossil-energy-based economy and move on to a forward-looking green economy with a focus on knowledge-based business. Future energy sources are renewable. There is reason to draw attention to the fact that several of the largest oil companies in the world define themselves as energy companies and have development scenarios that are in stark contrast to what the Government presents to the oil and gas activities. Norway should increase the investment in new renewable energy sources such as wind power, bioenergy, solar heat and wave power and actively use its ownership interests in the Norwegian oil and gas companies to transform its strategies accordingly. New renewable energy sources are characterised by the fact that they do not lead to greenhouse gas emissions and impose a lower burden on the environment than other energy sources. SV is opposed to opening the vulnerable north areas to petroleum activities, in particular taking into account the fishing industry, the environmental safety along the Norwegian coast and the ecology of the Barents Sea. It is worrying that, as the Sem Declaration promises to "strengthen environmental research, including enhancing the competence of the challenges at the intersection of petroleum activity, fisheries and the environment", the Cooperative Government does not wait to conclude with regard to the opening of the Barents Sea to petroleum activity until the knowledge base on the environmental impact is good enough. There is a clear need for more environmental research in order to maintain the precautionary principle in the context of the impact assessment of full-year petroleum activity in the northern Lofoten and North Sea regions, the overall Barents Sea Management Plan and in order to achieve the objective of zero marine emissions. The entire Sem declaration is put in a glaring light when the same areas are pre-maturely opened up to petroleum activities, and it is, in my opinion, time again to question the Christian People's Party's environmental profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e595	There are major challenges to ensuring long-term value creation on Norwegian continental shelf. In the main message, the Government proposes measures to meet these challenges. I have registered with pleasure that there is a broad consensus on the need to bet on further developing the petroleum industry. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee broadly endorses the Government's analysis of the challenges facing industry and the government's policy. We have a good tradition of finding agreed solutions in the field of oil and gas policy. It's a pleasure that we're able to continue this now. In a situation where many of our producing oil fields are in a phase of falling production and have significant cost-cutting challenges to maintain and extend their lifetime, all stones have to be turned around. I record the majority’s view on land base policy and activity. The government's prudent proposal for adaptations to land-based base and operating activities is based on changing the conditions on the base. Not least, it is positive that new technologies allow for underwater solutions and remote control from land. It involves better environmental solutions and safe workplaces on the base. It is this Government points out and wants to meet offensively. The Worm Lange project is paving the way. I would like to stress that the Government's proposal does not involve the relocation or closure of jobs. Nor does it imply any change to the concession terms granted by the Storting. It only provides an opportunity for companies to make more effective use of the land-based enterprises by adapting professional tasks and functions when new technological solutions are introduced and the operation of the fields on the base changes character. This should be a broad consensus based on the wish to keep the old, established fields in operation as far as possible. The Government and the majority of the Committee share the vision of injecting CO2 from land-based sources to increase oil extraction. I place considerable emphasis on reaching this vision, but I would nevertheless point out that it is very demanding to realize projects with capture, transport and injection of CO2 for increased oil extraction. Statoil has investigated the profitability of injecting CO2 but has so far not found this project either economically or economically profitable. However, I believe it is important to maintain the objectives that Norway is committed to under the Kyoto Protocol, and to work towards achieving cooperation in the North Sea basin to exploit CO2 to increase the yield of the oil well while at the same time becoming clear of the greenhouse gas CO2. The government has kept a sharp eye on the search activity on Norwegian soil, carried out large and frequent concession rounds and made extensive changes to the allocation system and the concession terms. The changes have now led industry to have access to all mature areas of the base. Through the 18th concession round, the Government has laid the foundations for a comprehensive and effective exploration of large parts of the immature areas of the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea. The very extensive interest and allocation during the 18th round has shown that pessimism and the flow of black paint have been unfounded. The Government has set out in the Communication its decision to open up petroleum activities in already open areas of the Southern Barents Sea, with the exception of some particularly valuable areas. Three exploration wells are now planned to be implemented during the autumn of 2004 to spring 2005. The results of these drillings will have a major impact on the wider interest in the area and will be important for the design of a new concession round. With regard to the possibilities to provide projects currently under assessment by the companies, this is a challenge to which the Government is committed. However, I do not want to forget that projects on the base have to be matured and quality assured carefully. If we don't give the companies enough time to do this, we risk overruns and resources are insufficient to provide the field with a satisfactory economy. Therefore, we should consider the possibilities of acceleration, but also take into account the factors mentioned. Finally, I would like to point out that the setting is marked by a large number of comments from different constellations on Stortinget. In part, the remarks are, in effect, a repetition of the Government's arrangements in the message - and one good thing you can't repeat too often. In other contexts, feedback is requested on specific issues, with relatively short deadlines. In my opinion, we must respect the fact that this business is large and that it is working in the long term. Therefore, I believe that it is mainly planned to report on the business and follow-up of the Storting's decision in the next oil notification in the spring of 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e616	Since this is the opportunity we currently have to ask questions about Snow White, I have to do it now. I understand it there that the Council of State will make a more complete statement in a letter within not too long, hopefully. It is particularly important that the Stortinget be kept constantly informed, because there are many unanswered questions. It's clear one might wonder that in October the Council of State briefed that everything was under control, it's going to be nine months, and so it's a crack that we're all now aware of, both in terms of costs and delays in the project. That is why it is very important that what can be done is now done to ensure that we do not get any more surprises. My question is, will the Council of State now ensure that there is a close follow-up? And what happened as he suddenly got informed a week ago that there were so many exceedances? What action will the Council of State now take?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e625	In my briefing in the morning meeting, I explained how the Snow White project was now cost-effective and time-consuming, and also for some of the reasons that Statoil itself has indicated to justify that they now have problems in terms of both progress and economics. First of all, I would like to say that when this has happened since I sent this letter to the Workers' Group on 6 October last year and until today, it is among other things. because a number of important operations have been carried out during that period. There is no doubt that the Snow White project is very complex and complex, and with many actors within it, all of whom had to coordinate their activities in order for this to go well. It has been shown that for various reasons coordination has not been good enough. Statoil has taken hold of this and has, among other things, wished to keep several of the components of this project in its own portfolio. I'm glad. I'll follow this up just as I've now done, close up to Statoil, so that both I and Stortinget get the necessary information, if there's any difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e632	The supplier industry, and in particular the offshore shipyards, are the ones that are first hit by the decline we are now going to have in the activity level of the socket, after the Storting today unfortunately does not take the necessary action. Not enough of the fact that in recent years the offshore agencies have lost more jobs to foreign yards, as we saw on the Snow White project, now it is even fewer jobs to compete for. The result is the fragmentation of environments of competence that have taken decades to build up, and thousands of shipyard workers are put on the gate. Why do the Council of State and the Government not take inwards the climactic clear signals that have come from the oil industry, so that we can avoid this extensive reduction in the Norwegian oil industry that we are now seeing the beginning of?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e639	It is primarily the supplier industry and the rigging activity that will be affected when the activity falls on Norwegian pedestal. This has been the case several times, and we know how it affects jobs and activities, not least along the coast, where one depends on our oil business. That's why the government has been active on this. It is, therefore, the Government through extensive concession rounds, both in the pre-allocated areas, and in the mature areas as well as in the immature areas, not least in the 18th concession round, has changed the policy, made it easier for companies to plan, and has announced the most extensive rounds presented by some government. Only the first concession round was more extensive than this. We have also contributed to this through tax evasion and cost reductions. If today's Storting joins the Government's proposal on various measures both to reduce costs, increase research and shed land, we will be able to counteract what the representative, Mr. Waksdal, and I agree will be unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e644	At the end of his speech, the Council of State said that he could not meet some of the temptations that the majority faced, as I understood him. This I have to ask for an explanation of what that means. It is clear that a number in the committee mean what it says. When a number say that the state budget for 2006 has to come back with a matter related to the CO2 injection, they think so. Then I assume that the Council of State at that point meets the temptations as a multiple at any time. There's got to be some initialization. So in relation to Snow White Saak. It's come out from Statoil that there was an unmoded project. Now we don't know what the price tag is, he started at $40, now he's up at $50, or maybe he's going to be $60 billion. Who knows? Is it so to understand that the Council of State believes that it was an immature matter that was put before the Storting for treatment when it was about Snow White?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e651	The reason for both delay and overtime is complex, but I consider what Statoil himself says as the most important explanation: This was an immature project. This means that it was not sufficiently elaborated, either in terms of technological solutions or in terms of economics. It is a serious matter, and Statoil itself has recognized it. I come back with further information and analyses of this when there is a more detailed report from Statoil. So I just want to show that the Storting itself has established a system of oil messages every two years. It's in order to enable a complete and thorough follow-up of what's required by the Storting. If adhoc solutions are strongly applied and the department is asked to come up with solutions between these oil messages, we risk losing the overall perspective we're going to have on oil reporting. It also creates uncertainty for those who work with different oil-related problems. That's why I'm essentially assuming that it's the oil message that's going to withdraw policy from Stortinget's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e661	Today we've heard the Council's briefing on Snow White, and it wasn't good for anyone. In addition, Statoil has explained that Snow White can be up to NOK 12 billion more expensive than budgeted, because it was poorly planned. As mentioned earlier, it wasn't mature, so it wasn't well done. Now I'm not going to spend time saying that we were very opposed to it, because we're dealing with the realities, and the majority want to expand. But now it's about making the best of the situation that's arisen, and the Central Party believes that a revised PUD should be developed as the work on Snow White continues. It will help the oil companies to tighten up, by actually using this sleeping paragraph, and that will give the Storting the necessary insight. The Council of State has said earlier today that he will come back to the Stortinge "in an appropriate way". I could be interested to hear about the Council of State, for example. believes it's a PUD.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e665	No, I don't think an appropriate feedback is a PUD. It is true that the Petroleum Act contains a paragraph in the case of a new or amended PUD. It is a section that primarily relates to changes in expansion solutions, and it clearly triggers a PUD, because it technically introduces new elements that the department is not familiar with. However, in this case, the Ministry does not understand anything other than that Statoil intends to carry out the project in line with the original development solution, which has already been approved. What the Center Party is concerned about, I am also concerned about, is that we get the necessary documentation on the table in relation to the fact that we have come up with such a situation. It can be a lesson both for Statoil and for the authorities, so that we avoid similar situations in the future. That briefing will be given to Stortinget, and when I heard that the representative Inger S. Enger thought that we could get a PUD already to the budget for the harvest, I understand that we mean the same thing, but not a PUD.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e670	Let me first give my full support to the representative of Langeland that the deadlines for which the majority will vote this evening should be maintained. Then I have some questions related to the basic policy, because the government would as you know have flexibility, but a majority of the majority in the Grand Council does not want to give room for the flexibility the Government wants. These include: that we are concerned that activity must appear on land, and that is why we also say that the concession conditions must be maintained, and we are concerned that there will be even more job losses along the coast. I heard the representative Rahm here use the word'supplement' in connection with the Government's proposal for flexibility. My question is: what approach or flexibility is the Government's desire, if there's no mention of downsizing or centralization?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e680	Yes, flexibility is necessary. Yes, there is a need for measures. We know that this activity will change character, we know that what's going on on the base will change. It would be strange if not also the activity ashore would be affected by this. Especially if we go to underwater installations and remote control, everyone understands that we can't keep flying back and forth with helicopters or build up heavy workforces to commute into and out of the North Sea. This will change. But what I can assure you is that we're not going to put down the activity in Florø, to be absolutely precise about it, because that's where this concern is triggered. There should be activity in Florø, but there could be other types of activity. In order to maintain and give life to these oilfields on which Florø as the base is dependent, a regrouping must also change, change and gain flexibility in new types of work. That's what this is about. So to this fear that a conversion means the closure of jobs: it's quite the reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e685	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e688	Norway is a country with great opportunities from nature. The oil and gas industries have given us knowledge and incomes most other countries can only dream of, and they certainly envy us. Nor is it possible to ignore the importance that this industry has had and will have for the Norwegian society in the future, for business and not least for our welfare building. We can see how the income of the Norwegian state is: we have managed to build up an oil fund of almost NOK 1000 billion. We are lubricating our budgets with nearly 60 billion dollars a year from this industry. There are unique things that happen in this industry that build our welfare community. The message we're dealing with today is going to draw up the lines a little bit ahead. But I have to say, after listening to the debate today, that you talk a lot about problems, problems and problems. I might have wished that the debate would take more rotation to look at the possibilities and be involved in further developing these huge resources we have. I also think that if I had been one of those who would go into this industry in the future, I would have been a little concerned about all the pessimism that is going on and off. What I might miss in this setting is that we take more into account the recruitment and development of the industry's employment potential, i.e. the industry's workforce. I think that's important. We know that today it is employed approx. 225 000 people in the petroleum industry, including the supplier industry, and 44 p.m. of our exports are related to oil and gas. There are great opportunities for the future, and then we must also build an optimism, not just have pessimism. We have to see the possibilities, and we have to be with the companies to do it, so that these too feel welcome. In the case of part of the framework conditions, the financial position has also addressed it and the Workers' Party fully adheres to the changes that are now being made in the case of the petroleum tax. But I am disappointed that a majority does not agree with the proposal that the Labour Party has to go further in that area to see if we can further improve the framework conditions in the overall context. I think we're going to have to come back to that question in the future to see if we don't have to reinforce the adaptation. What I am very pleased about, however, is the last point in the setting, namely that we have to look at what has happened in terms of contracts, outsourcing and commissions from Norway. We are not supposed to have such large industrial contracts, and are fighting with countries and industrial groupings that do not set up in the same way and that do not fight with blank swords. I believe that the government has a serious responsibility to ensure that our industry is not built down, when we look at what other conditions of competition are. We're put in a completely different category just because what's really going to come up to the surface, doesn't get up to the surface. This must be taken seriously by the Government and the Council of State. This he must engage in dialogue with the companies about when large expansions take place, so that we do not get it that way that we are left behind for industry when the big promises come forward. With regard to the exceedance that has taken place in connection with Snow White, I must say that I am disappointed that there have been so many overruns in retrospect in connection with the PUD that we were dealing with in the Stortinget, and I remember very well the State Council's assurances in this room and letter to Sylvia Brustad that here was everything that it was supposed to be. But I still don't think we're going to put such things in reverse. I believe that Snow White will be a gigantic and great inspiration for the whole of North Norway and not least a spearhead throughout the Barents Sea region. We are first on the road in the environment, development and technology and can set a standard in this area and develop the whole region, and not least participate in and develop the standard in the Barents Sea. So the last word is probably not said there. But I think this is a great potential and, as I said, we need to develop further. I must also say that when we see what is happening in the Barents Sea, in the Norwegian Sea and in the North Sea, this industry has just been able to work in line with the other industry, and also with the fishing and fishing opportunities. It's been a plus for all parties. I think that is also important, but we are going to put the framework conditions in a good and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e712	In relation to the degree of maturity of the socket, increased use of existing fields is one of the main challenges, as well as marginal extraction. Small fields and low output increase unit costs. It is therefore positive that the Government contributes to focusing on the cost picture of both offshore and land activities. Furthermore, it is an important signal that the Government also alerts a review of the regulatory provisions. In this context, I find it strange that several parties reject the government’s focus on cost reduction measures. We all agree that we want both increased extraction rate and output in smaller areas, and then it is important to grasp the value of this development. Measures such as job reduction and offshore manning may be included here. There may be increased demands on individual employees for greater flexibility. There may be a reduction of permanently stationed offshore maintenance personnel. There may be a transfer of work and personnel to land through the use of e-operations. And there can be better exploitation of supply vessels and bases. Many of these elements are the result of negotiations between the social partners. Of course, it is tempting to do as the Labour Party does, to lean back with a comment that this must be up to the parties to discuss. But it's not that simple. The importance of the petroleum industry for the Norwegian economy both financially and industrially suggests that we need to focus on all the elements that threaten the attractiveness of the Norwegian base. And the high cost level is one of these. It is positive that the State itself takes responsibility for a review of the regulatory framework conditions. The notification refers to an illustrative project, namely Statfjord late phase, where Statoil as an operator considers it possible to increase production and extend life. The economy of the project will, among other things, depend on flexibility in relation to current working conditions related to co-sleeping and night work as well as predictability of environmental and tax policies. While any measure must be implemented within the framework of a sound level of HMS, it is important that the authorities base sound overall assessments on cost-effective solutions that will be sufficient to ensure the HMS aspect, but also the interests of companies and society, in relation to actual achievement of increased extraction rates. It is positive that in the Government’s proposals for action, there is a high focus on stimulating increased diversity and competition on the ground. The challenge in relation to tail production and marginal fields suggests the need for new players and greater competition. The Government's proposed changes to petroleum tax in the revised national budget are also built up under this objective. New, smaller players will be able to represent a greater diversity for the Norwegian supplier industry. In particular, smaller companies could have a greater tendency to subcontract goods and services than large companies, which deal with all aspects of their operations by means of their own forces. At the same time, large, established, global companies on a Norwegian base have made and make valuable contributions by virtue of their competence, financial strength and global character. Demanding exploration, expansion and operational tasks can be difficult to tackle by smaller actors. Their presence serves our research environments, our supplier industry and the entire community. A number of examples show how these include: have contributed to the internationalisation of Norwegian enterprises. Norwegian capital must remain attractive also with their investors. That is why it is important to provide access to attractive search areas, and I am thinking in particular that progress is being maintained in the north, and that we follow closely the development of this category of companies in the future. ==References== 220,000 people work in the cluster around the petroleum industry. This is a large number in itself, and especially in relation to the country's population at working age. There's a lot of competence in this number. In fact, in some areas this competence is world-leading. Competence results in industrial development. A high-cost country such as Norway needs knowledge-based industrial development. Here's our ability to compete, here's our ability to increase value creation in a long-term perspective. It is about the withdrawal of a non-renewable resource, so that regardless of the timetable for its exploitation, the internationalisation of the supplier industry will be important for future industrial and service developments in the industry. Organisations such as Intsok and Petrad do a good and important job in this context, and it is positive that the Government signals support for the further development of these organisations. Strengthening research funding is also a positive measure proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e738	"We will get something that North Norway too often lacked: growth, investment and optimism!" This is written by the county rapporteur in Finnmark Helga Pedersen and the county council in Troms Paul Dahlø in a chronicle about the kerosene message in VG yesterday. There is reason to listen to the wishes of the people up north in this matter. Just as the people on the south-west coast have built their local communities and communities on oil extraction, large parts of Coast Norway, and in particular the northernmost parts of the country, need predictability now and an optimistic view of the future. The Stortinget can give them a long way on the way today. Norway is a lucky nation with all its natural resources. We have to put them into service. We need to ensure technology and rethinking, that knowledge businesses and traditional industries have a framework within which to work that ensures their own industry and the environment, but also ensures the development of our country. We're going to take a decision on the oil report here today. But we're also going to give signals to thousands of employees in the petroleum industry who are uncertain about the future they're facing, and whether they want a job to go to in the next few years. This is a great feeling for the people involved. The working party had therefore seen that the notification had been clearer that different projects on a Norwegian base had to be started as soon as possible. We welcome the Committee's support for the proposal that we have put forward to speed up various of these projects on the base. Few new findings have been made in recent years. The Worm Lange has given great and good results. Norway is dependent on new findings being made, and we rely on large companies wanting to invest in Norwegian capital. These are those who possess the competence and sustainability needed for the further development of the socket. Sustainability is also the key to what needs to be done in Norwegian oil extraction and Norwegian industry. We are a nation that is close to the eco-friendly industry. We're going to be proud of that, and we're going to keep doing that. However, environmentally friendly industries cannot develop if they do not simultaneously build up and look for raw materials on which the industry is based. The fine thing about Norwegian industry is that development, production and the environment go hand in hand. Look at Falconbridge in Kristiansand, not to mention Elkem on the list! There are two enterprises in constant development, but with environmental and sustainability objectives, parallel to production. As a representative of West Agder, of course, it is my desire to see exciting findings made in the Farsund Basin, so that the industry at home can use values that are now at the bottom of the sea. Only time will show if this could happen. In the end, I will again stress that development can only take place when findings are made, and when research environments are enabled to drive innovation and innovation. Our ambition must be to continue to operate sustainably within the petroleum industry, but at the same time be attractive enough for large companies to use investment funds on Norwegian base. "We want to get rid of the subsidy stamp we have received, but then we have to be allowed to use the resources that are right outside our living room door." This is how Pedersen and Dahlo end their chronicle in VG yesterday. Let's hope that today's decisions will spread some optimism about growth in North Norway, as the population up there has been asking for so long, even though we might be even more committed to the plans for the Barents Sea. Let us also hope that new findings will be made soon, so that optimism will again prevail for the Norwegian industry and operators on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e771	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e774	After following a debate that is becoming quite long and depleted, I can at least record that there is quite a consensus on the main lines of oil and gas policy. Most of the challenges we see in front of us, we have a kind of a common reality picture of. I also believe that most can look back on almost 40 years on Norwegian pedestal with considerable joy, and not least will be able to note that Norwegian pedestal has evolved over these 40 years to become perhaps the most environmentally friendly - if we can use that expression - or environmentally-rich pedestal in the world. It has many reasons, but I believe that both the charging mechanism and other instruments that can stimulate the industry to take action have helped to put Norwegian pedestal in a special position. I note that there is a large consensus about increasing the use of CO2 associated with increased oil extraction. We agree on that. It will be economically correct, it could be a business concept, and at the same time it will contribute to environmental improvements related to how we handle CO2. We are privileged to live in a country with so much natural resources, and we are able to plan and dispose of our wealth in a long time perspective - for oil perhaps 50 years and for gas up to 100 years. It is a great privilege that very many countries envy us, but it requires great attention to how we actually manage this, not only in relation to the present, but also for future generations, and what challenges we face in relation to the environmental aspects of oil and gas activities. We know that the situation for the oil and gas industry in Norway is at present difficult. But it's not completely black, as some try to make it. The impression of a solar industry must not get stuck. It requires political will to facilitate a continued viable and profitable industry. I think St.meld. No 38, for which the Government is essentially given a majority in the Chamber today, take the necessary steps to secure the future of this industry in Norway. Let me conclude by saying in relation to the exceedances on Snow White that it is very important that the Stortinget sends strong signals - in order to use Onarheim's expression - that we regard it as totally unacceptable. It is important to send a signal to the company that we have expectations that in the future the company will do what is possible to stay within the limits of the costs they set themselves. This has something to do with Storting's approach to the projects, and it also has to do with the credibility of Statoil itself. It is important that this signal is clear from Storting's pulpit today, that we have more expectations than has been achieved so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e787	It was the question from the representative, Mr. Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, that I had to ask for the floor again. The Christian People's Party called for its petroleum policy, and it could be perceived as the Christian People's Party in favour of forced petroleum extraction. I did not complete my reasoning in the answer within the time frame of one minute, so I have to go into detail. The decision to continue activities in the Barents Sea now is important for the oil industry to drill wells in concessional areas. This will provide valuable information about the range, and may give a positive effect to the level of activity on the socket. This is not forced petroleum extraction, but knowledge and information acquisition. In the case of petroleum extraction in the fields of Nordland VI, Nordland VII and Tromsøflaket, a holistic management plan has been set aside. The most vulnerable areas in the Barents Sea were taken out of the 18th concession round and the world’s most stringent environmental requirements have been imposed on the operations to be carried out in the northern regions. There are several figures in the Storting for this policy, and SV is part of this plural.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e796	SV believes that petroleum activity should be the basis for regional development. There's also a large number here at Stortinget in the past. In my party and in my home country, we were alarmed when we read the message that we are dealing with today, what we perceive as a new signal from the Government regarding operating organisations, that the operators should have the freedom to organise the business in a more efficient way than today. We can't easily see that it's anything but that the government wants to relax on the concession terms that the Storting has seen. Here the government has honoured the companies. The large oil companies have long complained about the ineffectiveness of having to stick to the small coastal basins, and have a wish for so-called normalized concession conditions for all fields. Such a normalization has already occurred in my state in the form of loss of yearwork and loss of functions. It's very bad for a state like Sogn and Fjordane, which has about 30 pst. oil production off the coast but having only 1 pst. of the land-based employment. So it's not like some people are trying to make it up today, that on death and life we're going to keep up base activity without oil activity outside. Here's a context. There's still a lot of oil activity off the coast, so one starts with a reduction of the smallest bases. It's a little special that the flexibility that the government adds and wants to apply to the small bases first. I am therefore pleased that the majority rejects the Government's proposal for greater flexibility in the concession terms. The concession conditions laid down for each block shall be respected. That's what makes the plural today. The government must stick to that, and the oil companies must stick to it. So short to Snow White. I attended and discussed the question of 2 billion kroner for the project a couple of years ago - what was going on to get the project going. Answer the question, and we'll warn you then against making a miserable project pay for such tax evasion. When the Council of State and several representatives are still talking about the project as profitable, you can ask questions about it. First, the company's rental said that the Snow White project was not interesting without tax relief, so the company got tax relief and started. Then came the last crack. Olav Fjell then said that the project had not been started if they knew what they knew then. Now, the excess is going to be $10-12 billion, but then it's all of a sudden profitable anyway. First, the project is so profitable, then the company wouldn't have started it, and then the requirement for pay is still met - understand the one who can. Those who gave tax relief that time have every reason to undo. Either the project shouldn't have started, or it was completely unnecessary with $2 billion in taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e805	It has been suggested several times in the debate what people in the north think about extraction in the Barents Sea, and then I felt it might be appropriate to take the floor on this matter. There is a large consensus in this room that the petroleum resources in the Barents Sea should be extracted. Work is already under way through the development of Snow White, which for other reasons has been mentioned earlier in the debate. The exploitation to be carried out in the Barents Sea is the result of thorough debates in which the environmental aspect has been tone-setting and where safety for the environment has been the most important thing before authorisation has been granted for activities in this area. The fossil resources in the Barents Sea are important both for Norway and for the region. New industries and skilled jobs are important for the development of North Norway, and all those contributing to petroleum activity in the north should be proud of what they do for Norway and North Norway. I record from the debate that the Labour Party at the representative Brustad is trying to doubt what the government parties want in the Barents Sea. All those who are literate, and who know their story, can't quite see what she's really looking for. She has quoted several times in the debate from a chronicle that was in VG yesterday, written by the County Council in Troms and the county rapporteur in Finnmark, both from the Workers' Party. I have therefore found that article, and do not read it in the same way as the Workers' Party's representatives do in Stortinget. Let me quote a little from the article: "And this is where the oil report contains the truly uplifting perspectives for North Norway." It is aimed at describing what is known about the occurrences in particular: The Barents Sea. Furthermore, the county rapporteur in Finnmark and the county councils in Troms write about the message: "It is liberatingly clear speech for all those who believe that oil and gas will become an important additional industry for the continent." In addition, I have spoken with the county rapporteur in Finnmark, Helga Pedersen, today. The article that Brustad refers to is over a month old, and Pedersen could state that the Finnish County Municipality is very pleased with the position that we are dealing with in Stortinget today. There are very few, perhaps none, who agree with the representative Brustad's scare analysis of what is going to happen in the Barents Sea as a result of the petroleum notification and treatment today. The chairman of the Snow White Association, her party colleague Arvid Jensen, refers to the position as "Good for Northern Norse Business". Therefore, no one understands what the Workers' Party is trying to convey in this case. Now there's a lot of consensus about what kind of activity you want in the Barents Sea. That this annoys Brustad, must stand for her own account. Me and the Right, together with the part of the country, are at least optimistic about the future of petroleum activity in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e836	In 1999, the conclusions of a selection led by Professor Knut Kaasen were published. The sample reviewed some of the exceedances of Norwegian investment projects in the oil sector. The conclusions from the selection settings are largely consistent with what Statoil today says about the exceedances of Snow White, in the sense that it is also said from the Kaasen Committee that a start before planning has come long enough, i.e. a start when the project is not mature enough. I think that is an important conclusion, not only in terms of Snow White, but probably for many of the projects that we have adopted in Stortinget in the last ten years, and probably also for many of the projects that will be considered in the years to come, if we maintain the decision-making system that we have today. The proposal of the centre party today has the background that the Petroleum Law opens the way for an amended or new plan for expansion and operation. There is no requirement for significant changes to the project, as stated by the State Council. It is simply in the law that the department can ask for a modified or new plan for development and operation. And when the Center Party is promoting this proposal, there is no attempt to reverse the decision in the Snow White Development. We have respect for the decision that has been made and that the expansion has begun. However, we believe that the Stortinget as the determining body in relation to these kinds of cases deserves respect that it also receives a revised plan of development and operation when a project has been so modified in relation to the financial assumptions that Snow White has now become. I fully agree with Brother Yngve Rahm when he now says that it is important that there are strong signals coming from the Stortinget on the Snow White extension, but I also think it is important that there are some binding signals. It is important that there are some obligating signals that are not just about Snow White, but are a clear signal to other oil companies that in the years to come one will not accept this type of exceedance without the Storting re-treating the further development of the project. A review of a new PUD doesn't have to slow down the project, and it doesn't have to be a whole new PUD either. It is clear that much of the basic material related to the PUD is already there. What the size should now have on the table are the changed assumptions and the increased costs. Let me also in the short time I have, be allowed to say two words about the operating and base structure. I think it was very reasonable of the government that we provided a structure for base and operating organisations a few years ago. If we hadn't, I think the Norwegian oil environment today would have been far more London-based than it really is. Insofar as one is to allow relaxations in the years ahead related to the existing structure, they should be about moving jobs and activities from Stavanger and Bergen and further northwards to Kristiansund, Stjørdal and Harstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e849	Actually, it would have been tempting to enter into a new dialogue with, among other things. The representative Brustad and got an answer to the questions that I did not receive in the reply. But I feel, on the other hand, that we have debated this matter in many ways. I wanted to hang myself more on what Tore Nordtun says. Now let's make sure a little bit of optimism. Now let's make sure that we really use this opportunity to stimulate, so that we get the results we're going to get from this sector. We agree very much on this matter. We need to stimulate more actors. We need to open up new search areas. We're going to check the competition conditions for the industry. Let's not create undue uncertainty. This is an exciting and important activity for the country of origin. We're going to work to keep a high level of activity, we're going to work to look at the opportunities, and we're going to work to make it a smooth and good development. If we can now focus on the positive things and more on what we're agreed on, than far beyond night to focus on the little thing we disagree on, I think there's a lot of opportunities here to get a fairly wide majority in this room on these questions. I am pleased that there is a setting for this message that brings together many of the lots.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e860	In connection with what the last speaker said, I think it is appropriate to congratulate North Norway in particular on this oil report and the decisions that the Stortinget is now going to take. It is obvious that many of the signals now given have a significant impact on further oil activity in the north. I would also like to congratulate Mr Harstad as an oil town. This 18th concession round and what we're going to add up on the Barents Sea will have an impact on the North Norwegian oil centre, Harstad. This means, of course, that in addition to Harstad, one will have operating organisations and land-based activities, not least in Finnmark - from Hammerfest and eastward towards Vardø, Vadsø, Kirkenes and other places that could have important activity in the future. Continuity and predictability are the government's headline for what we want to achieve. Therefore, we attach great importance to the need for knowledge of the test drilling to be conducted to provide the basis for new concession rounds. So there's no concern about the policy we're pursuing in North Norway, which means that we want to have a look before the next concession round comes. It's just to create predictability, not to help illuminate areas where companies are invited to drill without knowing what they can really find. We want companies to have the necessary knowledge to increase their ability to find something. So I would also like to say that it is not relevant for any operator to be able to "sludge" the terms of the concession that the Stortinget has established, as the representative of Grande Røys expressed it. It is the Storting that has determined this, and it is not relevant for the Government to change anything on these concession terms. All the flexibility and adaptation I've been talking about is going to be within the given concessions. It could seem that Grande Røys from SV is against Norwegian oil activity, but for everything that's going on in Sogn and Fjordane. I believe, for my part, that it is better to focus on communication between the operator, the municipality and the county. And I think, unfortunately, it's right to admit that the communication with the operator has not been good enough in relation to the oil environment in Florø. I agree with what Marit Arnstad said about moving jobs. Flexibility and adaptation are not least the possibility of shifting activity to the coast, where new oil activity is now to take place. The majority’s formulation that nothing should be changed can easily be an argument that one does not get to this emigration, so that one does not have the activity that one wants to do, not least in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e873	The next speaker is Sylvia Brustad--then Hallgeir H. Langeland. The President finds it opportune to do the right thing because we still have a long way to go. The time now spent is of course important, but it is also at the expense of dealing with other issues later this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e878	I'll be brief. I need to respond to what Robertsen had to say about North Norway. As has been said here, there is a broad consensus on large parts of the message, but a little disagreement about the reopening of the Barents Sea and how fast it is going to go. Since the county rapporteur in Finnmark and what she has said before has been brought in here, I would say that as the representative Robertsen produced the last message from the county rapporteur, it is probably a little too far compared to what she thinks. It should be clear that we want to highlight blocks in 2005. I find that the government does not want to say it so clearly at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e890	Very short also from SV: I just want to remind the council that he's in a minority government, and when a majority on the Stortinget specifies that the basic policy is firm, that's the bulk of me. Otherwise, I would also like to warn the Council of State in relation to what he said earlier about the temptations of various multiples in the message. So a multiple is a multiple. When we say that a matter of CO2 injection is due to come before the 2006 budget proposal, I think. Just this with CO2 injection is one of the issues that is important for SV to clarify, and where we now actually get it in the right direction. So I also congratulate you that we have received some new information about the treatment here in Stortinget, not least related to the environment. CO2 injection is one. The fact that the environmental professionals are now being involved in the coexistence selection is also positive. So here's the positive thing -- also seen with SV's eye.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e899	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7. (The sitting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 5 p.m.) [[See pages 3257 and 3260]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e914	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to the rapporteur, 5 minutes to the Workers' Party, 5 minutes to the proposers and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e921	The proposers are asking here for an action plan for the construction of gas power plants, detailing relatively well-known problems related to the construction of gas power plants in Norway. In the vote, the comments of the proposers are relatively comprehensive and spicy with good quotes - if I may say so - from the Right-wing politicians and also the State Council. And let it be clear: the right still believes that gas power is cleaner than coal power. This proposal is based on a notion that if we had only been more positive -- yes, gentler, so to speak -- the concessionaires of the three gas power stations would probably have expanded. I think we have to look at the reality in a different perspective. This concerns the business idea of the companies, the return claims, and the gas price. As stated in the letter from the Council of State following the case, this government insists on the wording of the Sem-Declaration that the construction of the three gas power stations that have been granted a concession is open. The proposal also raises the issue of the transfer of concessions. Yes, we are several who have participated in many meetings with companies and have heard reasonable arguments for other geographic location and would like to better exploit and also better environmental projects. This concerns in particular the move from Forest to Tent Goods, from Kollsnes to Mongstad and from Kårstø to Risavika. But some concrete application for some of these projects has not yet been made by the Department or the Stortinget. That is why it is wrong to decide on this now. If that happens, we need to see how this is produced under the law, the concession terms and the emission permits attached to the concessions granted. In the light of what I have just said, it is right, in the view of the majority, to attach this proposal to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e938	We belong to the majority who agree to attach the proposal to the protocol, but have slightly different leads to the conclusion. There is a lot of use in the debate, most recently by the representative Halleraker, that there is no request to build gas power plants. I sincerely hope that either some of those who have a concession, or others who want to build, will apply for a concession to build as soon as possible, because we need gas power plants as well as other things to do something about the power deficit. It is also a well-known case that we believe from the Workers' Party that if those who have a concession now choose not to apply to build a gas plant, the concessions should not be extended. Then, in our opinion, they can be allocated to others, or one can use other or new concessions. The important thing is to get it started.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e945	There is today a strong consensus in all trade environments outside this house that power generation based on gas, in addition to some hydropower, is the only thing that will contribute as monks, and that can balance supply and demand in the Norwegian and Nordic power markets. However, both political and economic uncertainty about gas power has been created in Norway, for which the current government has to take primary responsibility. As early as 1996-1997, a broad majority in the Grand Duchy, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, decided to facilitate gas-based power generation. But it all stopped when the Igland government found out that CO2 emissions would be treated under the pollution law. It was not until spring 2000 that a majority, consisting of the same parties, decided that gas power plants in Norway should have the same framework conditions as others in the EEA area. None of the concession holders has taken the opportunity to invest so far, due to uncertainty about future emission requirements and related costs. I have repeatedly challenged the Council of State, both in the Questionnaire and in other ways, in order to clear up this uncertainty, without the Council of State having wanted to take any action. He has always claimed that those operators who have a concession do not find it profitable on the basis of the gas price and the electricity price. In his opinion, the government has no responsibility for any uncertainty in this regard. The Council of State has also repeatedly claimed that he is in contact with the concessionaires, and that none of them has anything to complain about insecurity - despite Hydro's Director-General Eivind Reiten's opinions in Technical Weekly No. 12 this year, where he claims that "the uncertainty associated with the CO2 issue is too great to allow anyone to bet on exploiting the gas in Norway", and that "Norway has rotted into a CO2 psycho". Similar opinions also came from Elkem-director Svein Sundsbø at an energy conference in the NHO-regi before Easter, where both the Council of State and the undersigned were present. We are now in Norway pumping our gas resources out of the country. Europe as a whole sees the use of gas as a good environmental policy, while Norway sees gas as just pollution. This hopeless and directly wrong environmental policy is in conflict with its purpose and means that we must put in place large amounts of power from highly polluting coal and nuclear power stations. Norwegian symbolism policies contribute directly to increased emissions overall, and it is likely soon that this will also increase the environmental movement in Norway. Now we also see that our neighbouring country Sweden, where it does not have gas itself, is planning gas power plants to secure the power supply. The government's contribution to the political and economic uncertainty is also reinforced by the Sem Declaration. It says, among other things. "no more stringent greenhouse gas emission requirements than is usual for gas power producers in other EEA countries". You can also read: "Until a tradable emission allowance system is established in line with the Kyoto Protocol, it is assumed that additional concession and emission permits are granted only to gas power plants based on CO2-free technology." These are clearly the contradictions and are short and well not linked. I therefore hope the Council of State can give us an explanation of what the Government here really means. It is, unfortunately, a fact that the Government and the majority of the Storting have messed up on a trail of blindness in the matter of gas power. It is now necessary to invest billions in gas power with CO2 management, despite the fact that all the expertise in this area says that it takes between 8 and 13 years before the technology that makes this financially viable is put in place. It would have been better to say directly that gas power was undesirable, instead of rotting away billions of dollars to buy out time. In the meantime, the distance between supply and demand for power increases and, as a result, prices increase. We had hoped that by means of this proposal we would clear up the uncertainty, but we just have to note that this time too we are all alone. The fine party numbers in the Labour Party and the Right don't mean anything when it comes to the piece. These two parties that stood with us in the spring of 2000, have now failed and also rotted into the CO2 psychosis. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e972	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e975	In several respects, the government has made it clear that investing in environmentally friendly gas power is a key element of the Government's energy policy. The implementation of such gas power plants could strengthen energy supply in a way that would allow the Norwegian climate obligations to be met. The policy in this area is precisely mentioned in the Sem Declaration, and followed up both in the Gas Communication and in the Communication on security of supply for electricity. The majority of the population has repeatedly endorsed the Government's gas power policy. On this basis, the wishes of the majority of the population related to gas power stations have not been misunderstandings. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment once again stresses this in the consideration of this Document No. The 8th proposal. Now the representative Øyvind Vaksdal says that this was an opportunity to clear up uncertainties and remove so-called inconsistencies in the Sem declaration. I note that the Government lives very well with the Sem Declaration and sees it as a uniquely good governance instrument, and we can see that the bulk of the population has no difficulty in interpreting what is in the various terms. So this must be a problem for the Progress Party. It may well be that the Progress Party has to look at its own understanding and interpretation when everyone else defines the reality as being clear and straightforward to deal with. Nor do I think there is any doubt as to what the majority of the population believes about the environmental policy framework conditions for the gas power plants, which in their time were granted a concession by the government of Stoltenberg. The decision of the size not to impose more stringent greenhouse gas emission requirements on those gas power plants than is common in other EEA countries is still on the ground. In the case of any new applications for the construction of gas power plants, concession treatment under the legislation is required and there is no possibility of transferring granted concessions to new projects elsewhere in the country. This has to do with the concession terms. In the revised national budget, the Government proposes that investment in gas power plants with CO2 management be further strengthened through the establishment of a fund of DKK 2 billion from 1 July to support pilot and demonstration projects. This will make it possible to ensure adequate funding for the relevant pilot projects and will, in addition to any powers and allocation needs, be able to provide opportunities for new pilot plants in addition to the Fund’s returns. I believe that it should be raised above any doubt as to what is the bulk of the gas power plant’s priorities in the Norwegian energy supply. The increased focus and the fastest possible realisation of gas power plants with both national and international CO2 management makes us very confident that we will succeed in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e990	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3260]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1005	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to the rapporteur, 5 minutes to the proposers and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1012	Today we have to consider Document No. 8:70, proposal by the representatives of Øyvind Vaksdal and Øyvind Korsberg to draw up an overall plan for the possible construction of wind turbines in Norway. The title of the document may give the impression that the Progress Party has embarked on a new line in relation to the development of wind power. Unfortunately, the rest of the document does not live up to this impression. Let me say that had this been a proposal that was based on the fact that wind power is a new and exciting area on which one wants to facilitate development, SV had been ready to support the proposal. I would like to remind you that, in the context of Stortinget's treatment of the security of supply communication, SV suggested that a comprehensive plan for wind power should be established. SV believes that Norway should set a target of producing at least 5 TWh of wind per year by 2010. The share of wind power in Denmark is high today, and wind conditions in Norway are even better. The NVE has granted a concession to wind power plants with a total production capacity of approx. 1.8 TWh per years and projects with a total production capacity exceeding 5 TWh per year have been notified in advance. years. Norway is a long-distance country with a lot of wind. In Norway, we have grown well below 1 TWh wind power today, and the Government's goal is to expand 3 TWh by 2010. We therefore believe that in relation to the demand, the need, and not least the potential, the government's objective is far too low. The technical-theoretical potential in Norway is at an incredible 1 400 TWh per year. years, while a realistic level of expansion could mean that over the next decades we will be able to expand dozens of TWh once the necessary environmental, infrastructure, local power needs and network and construction costs have been taken into account. The SV’s proposal in the security of supply communication was justified by the fact that bottlenecks in the transmission system could become a challenge in relation to the development of wind power in Norway. In Finland today, there is only two-thirds transmission capacity for wind farms. In addition, it has also been found that several wind power developments are controversial, with objections from the Directorate for Nature Management, Defence and the State Antiquities and protests from the nature protection organisations. We believed that this shows the need for a comprehensive plan for the development of wind power in Norway, which should be aimed at leading the way, among others. on further strengthening of the central network. But at the same time, we were very clear on both the ambitious objective of the proposal and that this planning process should not hinder the continuous treatment of individual concessions. In other words, we had a completely different approach to this matter than the Progress Party today has in its proposal. Instead of a planning process that facilitates a faster deployment of wind power, the approach to the Progress Party is the exact opposite. On this basis, I recommend that Stortingen reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1033	I shall be quite brief because that document No. The 8-proposal we have made, and the comments we have written in the setting, well describes the view we have in this matter. There might be a long meeting tonight, and there's probably someone who's going to be in Odelstinget too, so we're going to hope that there's going to be a long and good meeting there. I would just like to make a few comments on why we have promoted this proposal. We have done this on the basis that we think it's time to get an overall plan, and that we get an overall assessment of the plans available for the construction of wind power. Whether you like it or not, there's a huge natural intervention, a very visible natural intervention. You can discuss whether it's nice or not, and that's shared opinions in relation to it. Impact assessments are carried out in many areas. We talked about the Barents Sea earlier today. We have today received a message from Stortinget about supplementing the overall plan for hydropower that takes care of natural interference. We think it's a little strange that the bulk of the population won't be able to assess the whole, as far as the major interventions planned here in the construction of wind power are concerned. We're left with a feeling that what you're doing here in Stortinget is treating wind power as something that's politically correct, without taking into account what's happening. You see that there's a part that's now starting to demonstrate against this. The travel industry has concerns, and some environmental protection organisations are also starting to have major concerns. For example: Germany has become a formidable protest against all the plans that exist. In addition, there are also large network costs, up to 5 billion kroner. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1046	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1049	I can't see that there is a need for such a comprehensive plan of wind power as a basis for dealing with the concession requests. The potential of wind power development sites along our coast is almost unlimited. Should such an overall plan for wind power expansion have any value, thorough wind measurements had to be made in the terrain, setting up a very large number of offshore wind measurement masts. In addition to all the time spent, the costs of such wind measurements would also be substantial. That's what I thought the Progress Party was concerned about, at least if they want wind power, but if that's the opposite they want--what a lot might suggest-- I understand more of the reasoning. In addition to ensuring wind data, the capacity and cost of transmission from installations must be calculated and infrastructure assessments such as roads and berths must be carried out. The planning process and concession treatment according to today's rules provide the necessary overall and overview to take a stand for the individual projects. I am confident that this thorough treatment will ensure that wind power generation will take place within an environmentally acceptable framework. I am therefore pleased that the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, agrees with my view and does not consider it appropriate to draw up an overall plan for the construction of wind power.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1056	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1073	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to the rapporteur, 5 minutes to the proposers and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there will be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1080	The flood that hit the North-West and southern parts of Trøndelag in August 2003 caused considerable damage, and six municipalities were hit particularly hard. The proposers point out that the cost of the 20 pst district share. of the remaining flood protection works is a heavy burden for the municipalities concerned. They consider this to be discriminatory because of the State’s coverage of 100 pst. of the costs of the floods in 1995 and 1997. It is also pointed out by the proposers that stakeholders need clarification on funding before deciding on the hedging work to be carried out. The proposers believe that a general rule should be introduced that the state fully covers the costs of flood protection and that the protection work following flood disasters should be treated equally, and they point out that, in some cases, local communities are left with considerable costs. The proposal has been submitted to the Ministry of Oil and Energy by the Council of State. In his letter from the Council of State, he points out that the NVE may waive the requirement for a district share in some cases. He goes on to point out that the Stortinget discussed the district share in 1997 and that it was then carried on but dropped from 25 p.m. until 20 pst. The Council of State claims that he cannot see that the assumptions have changed since the last time this was dealt with, and concludes that he will not waive the requirement for a district share after the flood in August 2003. During the examination of the Committee, the Government Parties and the Workers' Party have acceded to the position of the Council of State and ensure that the proposal is not accepted by a majority. The Party for Progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are behind the proposal in the vote on non-compliance and review and amendment of the legislation. With this I address the proposals No. 1 and 2 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1102	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1105	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job. I say that not only because we agree, but because he has explained the different aspects of the matter in a straightforward way. But it is a pity that there is no majority in favour of the proposal that the state should cover the costs of flood prevention and remediation after a flood in full. It is strange that discrimination against different parts of our country is accepted. To be precise, the proposal of the minority is two-fold. The first part is of a general nature. It is requested that the Government should: "Re-examine legislation and practices in terms of district share, in order to make this more accurate and fair, so that flood prevention and flood remediation are fully covered by the State". The second part of the proposal focuses on the flood in 2003, requesting that the district share be waived. Unfortunately, the majority go against both of these proposals. The central party regrets that the government parties and the Labour Party will not support the proposal to waive the regional shares that have been required after the flood in South-Trøndelag and in the North-West in 2003. So it is the Progress Party and the Socialist Left that are behind the proposal, together with the Centre Party. In 1995, a violent flood struck the East. Many of us experienced this in close proximity. We experienced that houses and homes were taken by the water and swept by farms, roads went in disintegration, and bridges were moved by heavy amounts of water. It was undoubtedly a violent affair, and it was both expensive and time consuming to sort out after the flood. But fortunately, the state paid 100 pst. It was both right and right, and that is what is at the heart of the matter. We cannot have legislation that does not treat natural disasters in different parts of the country. Unfortunately, this case is an example of the opposite. It shows that there really is discrimination. In 1995 and 1997, the country went in and covered 100 pst. the cost of the floods by means of own bulking decisions. This also includes permanent security measures. However, with regard to the last flood in 2003 in South Trondelag and More and Romesdal, the majority consider it reasonable that the municipalities and owners concerned should cover 20 pst. of the work not directly urgent. This represents approx. Three million. kr and experienced as a heavy burden on the persons concerned. The Minister of Oil and Energy's letter to the Committee on 26 April 2004 refers to a major debate on 10 June 1997. Then the district share was discussed, and it was then set down from 25 p.m. until 20 pst. At the same time, the Council of State states that the NVE may grant exemptions from district shares. In the letter from the Council of State it is also written that 100 pst. State aid for flood prevention may lead to less attention to the risk of development in flood-affected areas. It's thinking of the municipalities here. I must say that the kind of statement is to draw the matter very far. It is more likely that the municipalities are very concerned about getting into such a situation, where home, life and health, yes, the entire infrastructure is at risk. But then to the conclusion: to us -- the minority in this case -- it seems both random and unfair that some people drop the district share, while others have to pay. Unfortunately, climate change may seem to give us more floods and storms. We don't want to avoid floods. Now it's adding up to a high cost for many communities. It would be useful for further practice that the Government had reviewed the legislation in order to arrive at a fairer system. It could ensure that local communities are freed from sudden expenditures when natural forces arbitrarily and brutally change the landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1129	The south-trøndelag flood and the north-west flood in the late summer of 2003 were dramatic, not least for those directly affected by damage to their own property. However, it is important that the issue of the allocation of costs of flood prevention is not determined on the basis of such individual events but is seen in a wider context. The allocation of costs between the State and the district is limited to the implementation of permanent measures in watercourses. Permanent safeguard measures must be separated from emergency measures implemented to avert imminent danger to human life or damage to larger values immediately before, during and after a flood. Such emergency measures are fully financed by the State, and this has also been done in the case of the South-Tronde Team and the North-West. The last time the Stortinget discussed the issue of the district share was, as also pointed out by the representative Enger, in the handling of the flood action notification in June 1997. The scheme was then continued, including: Having regard to the fact that the local interests obtaining lasting benefits from the measures should also contribute to the financing. At the same time, the district portion was reduced from 25 pst. until 20 pst. Although the starting point is that a rural share is to be paid, today’s system does not provide a flexible solution. Measures of major societal importance may be fully financed by the State. The size has determined that the NVE may reduce or waive the requirement for the payment of district shares in the case of safeguard measures that reduce the risk of loss of life and greater material values, e.g.: as a result of mercury scrap and where the measures are primarily justified for reasons of general interest, e.g.: to prevent contamination or to improve conditions for fish in watercourses. I can't see that the assumption for coverage of the district share has changed since Stortinget last addressed this issue. The district share implies that local interests are involved in the priority of security measures and ensures that there are well-founded needs underpinning applications for state aid. The district share also contributes to local responsibility and to ownership of the resources. It is the municipalities responsible for land use. Full coverage of the costs of flood prevention by the State may result in less attention to the risk of flooding in flooded areas. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre have pointed out that they consider this to be unfair, since the measures carried out after the flooding in the East in 1995 and 1997 were fully covered by the State. I understand that the municipalities concerned in Trøndelag and in Møre and Romsdal may not think it is reasonable that the measures in these municipalities should not also be fully covered by the State. But this occurred through extraordinary appropriations by the Storting and not through allocation from the NVE's ordinary budgets. Full State funding for all measures following large floods will also be discriminatory, in relation to the many municipalities and landowners involved and participating in the financing of such measures. In this context, there is reason to point out that there are often local flood situations that normally address hedging needs, including in the ordinary cases. But these often don't get the same external focus that the larger media-covered floods get. I am therefore entirely satisfied that the Stortinget will maintain today's system of district shares, which must be regarded as, in general, both fair and fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1148	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1151	I find with a great deal of hope that, according to the setting, the majority does not want to treat the country in the same way as compensation after destruction. There are six municipalities in Møre and Romesdal and South-Trøndelag, which were particularly hard hit during the flood in August 2003. It has been shown that, following the floods in 1995 and 1997, Stortinget decided to cover the cost of 100 pst. after those destructions. For me it would be natural that Stortinget also said yes to cover 100 pst. After the damage to the North-West in 2003, a review of the legislation and practices in order to make it more accurate and fairer. For the municipalities and the landowners involved, it appears to be very unfair, and this means that they ask questions about whether there should be no equality of laws in this country. Someone has to pay the 20 pst district share, while others are not allowed. There is, of course, enough weight in my home state -- More and Romesdal -- and they ask themselves the question, Why? I did not find the majority to be a good reason for this in the vote, and the Council of State's argument for the discrimination between North-West and Austland did not seem to me to be good either. I do not believe that the municipalities and municipal councils in Austria, which were exposed to the major damage in the 1990s, feel less responsibility today, in 2004, even though they were covered by 100 pst. from the state. It would be natural if the majority said yes to introduce a general rule that the State should cover the costs. I strongly disagree with the Council of State in his assessments. It is unthinkable that some communities remain as the big losers, with great extra costs. This should be the responsibility of the large community, and today's practice causes concern for many municipalities over the years to come. I want as much as I can, encourage Stortinget to vote for the minority proposal from the Center Party, the Progress Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1164	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3260]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1179	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to the rapporteur, 5 minutes to the proposers and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1186	I'm going to be pretty short. The vote proposes that the Stortinget should ask the Government to establish a archipelago park in Østfold from the border with Akershus to Iddefjorden. The majority of the Committee wishes and has made proposals to reject the proposal, and in this respect I refer to the comments in the vote, not least to the two letters from the Council of State on this matter. I assume that the minority will explain their views on this matter. I would just like to make a few comments on the proposal at my own expense, and it is based on the principle of ownership of the Progress Party. Private ownership becomes important to us when we decide on this proposal. We see that a number of private individuals with property rights may conflict with the state if such a proposal had been realised. In addition, some issues related to what may happen in cases where private property owners do not wish to be included in the archipelago park are raised. Forces may become applicable to implement a decision on archipelago park, even if it is not mentioned in the proposal, and that is something we in the Progress Party believe it should be cautious to agree to. The costs associated with the establishment of archipelago parks have also not been explained, and in view of the acquisition or conclusion of contracts with private owners of property. There are a number of such cases that are important to us in this matter. As we assess it, users' rights have already been protected by the law of the open air and the right to free movement. Those are important arguments for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1199	Østfold has a unique archipelago that provides well-being, experiences and recreation. For many Eastern folds and, not least, for the Oslo people, it contributes to increasing the quality of life. As one of the proposers to establish the archipelago park in Østfold, I regret that the proposal does not get a majority in Stortinget. It is regrettable, not least, for all those people who use the archipelago in Eastfold and who experience that it is becoming more and more difficult and difficult to find areas where the public can land and use the archipelago, because it has become more and more populated and privatized. The proposal was a move to stop this unfortunate development. If it does not, it will hardly be recoverable. It is disappointing that the Minister for the Environment is so negative to the proposal and completely rejects it. It seems that the proposal is something completely new, but there have been set up archipelago parks both in Agder and in Telemark in the past. However, state council Brende chooses to interpret the proposal as if everything were to be implemented immediately, and then refrain because it becomes too much at once. But there is reason to ask whether he has fully understood the need for an overall grip on the management of the coastal zone and the archipelago of the country's most widely used sea area. The working party has been disappointed and expressed at such an attitude. We believe that this is such an important matter that it cannot be left out even if the proposal is voted down in this round. There might be more than one chance of resuming this. In the meantime, the Eastfold Workers' Party, the municipalities concerned and the County Council will work to follow up on the intentions behind the proposal. The working party sees the Eastfold coast as one of the most important coastal areas in Norway, with unique qualities. We have run out of the largest river in the Nordic region and an unusually rich flora and fauna. Very many people use this area for recreation, and there is therefore great wear and tear in the areas. This makes it urgent for uninhabited areas to be protected and for us to be able to get a grip on the disposal of the coastal zone that ensures both sensible use and adequate protection. On such a basis, experiences related to the coastal zone could become one of the main contributions to the positive development of Eastfold in the future. But that will not be the case with the majority, the government parties and the Progress Party. There is also reason to recall another case that has been top topical in Stortinget in the last few weeks, and that is the sale of the Eastern Islands to private in Westfold - right above the fjord of Eastfold. Also in Eastfold there are valuable coastal areas that belong to the Defence today and are now to be disposed of. These areas are among the most beautiful in the county and should, of course, be made available to the public. I expect that the government will not come into the same situation once again, but will ensure that these areas are at least not sold to private people. I refer to the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1222	The representative Signe Eye has taken up the suggestion she referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1227	I share with the proposers the description that the Eastfold coast has great value as a recreational area. In Eastfold there are already 280 open-air areas or 25 000 deches, secured by acquisitions and service agreements with landowners. In Eastfold we currently have no national parks, but per year. In 2000, there are four protected areas and 69 nature reserves, or approximately. 2 pst. of the total area of the county. Norway has a unique coastline from the Swedish border to Grense-Jakobsev. Norwegian protection plans have concentrated on mountains, forests and inland watercourses. Large parts of the population live and work along the coast. Fornafter witnesses of sustainable coastal communities thousands of years ago. The rich marine, plant and animal life along the coast needs better protection than today. Enlargement and accumulation of major coastal areas in Eastfold will ensure important recreational areas for future generations. The unique thing would be if both Norwegian and Swedish authorities merged and formed a common coastal national park in Eastfold and North Bohuslän. In the context of the establishment of a national park, the establishment of a national park centre will be natural, in particular as this could be the first national park to affect our coast. As early as the 1990s, the county started work, and several meetings were held. with the municipality of Whaler, the management of fisheries and the fishermen in the area, such as: is clarified in St.meld. No 43 for 1998-99, Protection and use in coastal zones. A specific proposal for a national park has been commissioned by the Directorate for Nature Management. A lot of preparatory work has been done in the county in recent years, including the compilation of relevant professional material and briefings/discussions with the municipality of Håler, the fishing side, the landowners' side, the coastal works and the county municipality. The level area has high protection values related to flora, fauna, beach, coastal types, coastal coniferous forest, lynghei and the intact vast coastal landscape. In addition, there are large marine protection values in the area. The Ternø Marine Biological Laboratory has for several years carried out marine biological studies in the area under the authority of the State. In 2002, a large coral reef was found at Tisler, which is more than 1,200 metres long. This is the world's largest known inner section coral reef! There is also a very varied underwater bottom topography. Today's legislation imposes strict requirements on the movement and construction of nature reserves and protected areas. It is important in the planning of a national park that consideration is given to landowners and businesses so that coastal resources can also be harvested in the future. Finally, I would like to include an extract from Mr. Brende's answer in the questionnaire to the undersigned's questions: "If we do this, in a few years we can adopt the establishment of our first national park covering both land and marine areas. There will be a valuable contribution in securing the coastal landscape in Norway in general and the special archipelago landscape of Whaler in particular." I agree with the opinion of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1254	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1269	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1284	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1299	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1315	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1336	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3262]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1351	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1360	Ensuring the safety and security of the individual is a crucial societal task. In the general remarks on the 2004 Justice budget, an overall justice policy approach has been emphasised. In the opinion of the Right, it is absolutely necessary to look at the whole picture in order to also combat the causes of crime. I am therefore pleased that most of the parties in the Storting agree on this, and believe that today's criminal policy challenges are not solved by simple action and unilateral emphasis on punishment. It is absolutely necessary to have an in-depth understanding of the causes of crime and to design effective instruments in line with this. Such measures address the causes of crime, thus contributing to a safer society for all. Police are to prevent and combat crime, which is essential for people's sense of security. Effective courts shall ensure a rapid and correct response to those who break the law. A balance in the chain between police, prosecution authorities, courts and criminal justice increases the preventative effect of punishment and facilitates the situation of defendants and victims waiting for clarification. I would like to stress strongly that criminal policy needs to be put in place both by prevention and by enforcing the rules of society. That is what is a comprehensive and targeted criminal policy. The majority of the Committee on Justice do not think that the 18 proposals by the representatives of the big business Jan Arild Ellingsen, André Kvakkestad, Carl I. Hagen and Siv Jensen promote such a comprehensive fight against crime. Several of the proposals have good intentions, but it is too easy for the Progress Party to promote a proposal for a comprehensive fight against crime where the main focus is penalties and more resources for the police. I agree that the length and effect of the punishment is important in the debate on justice. It's also police work, but a total fight against crime is about much more than that. I would also like to refer to the answer from the Ministry of Justice. Several of the proposals promoted by the Progress Party are already being prepared, consulted or already put in place. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the first sentence of the document. Document No 8:54 begins with the following: "The proposers are very concerned about the increasing crime in society." Here I have to add that the concern is fortunately a bit exaggerated. The number of offences reported decreased by 10.1 pst in 2003. in relation to 2002, according to figures from STRASAK. In itself, the review figures are not enough to analyse all aspects of the evolution of crime in society, but the 2003 figures show that there is no basis for what the Progress Party does, namely to claim that crime in Norway is increasing sharply or that the situation is deteriorating. On the contrary, there is an indication that crime is somewhat reduced in some important areas, such as the use of drugs. The police have given priority. The government has already taken a number of measures in recent years to prevent crime, develop investigations and corrections, and to strengthen the competence of police and other personnel to combat crime. We are sure to hear Mr Ellingen's representative from this chair claim that you cannot trust the Right and ask why the Right cannot support these proposals. Let me make it quite clear: the right cannot simply go in for such proposals. We will wait to decide on these proposals until they have received the review and treatment they need. However, I think it is a pity that the Progress Party, through good prevention work among children and young people, is not willing to look at the causes of crime and what is needed to help those who have already entered a criminal track. This proposal is probably an example of the simple approach of the Progress Party to combating crime, with higher penalties and more police. If we are to be able to do something about the crime of a society, we must be able to go deeper into the problem than the Progress Party is doing in its justification for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1399	This proposal by the Progress Party appears to be the entire programme of the Progress Party for this four-year period in the field of law and order. It may, of course, be rational to promote the party programme in whole proposals, but calling it a targeted and comprehensive fight against crime must be due to a robust link error in the Progress Party. Everyone knows that all human children can grow up to be law-abiding adult taxpayers if enough investment is made in society around them. Strategies to combat crime start by facilitating the situation of children and their parents. Fighting crime starts with prevention, and it has been the leadership of the Labour Party all along. That's why we have good control procedures for the children already in their mother's stomach, free of charge. We have built up health centres where children's health is controlled, free of charge. It is free games for children under the age of 7. Since kindergartens became a fact in Norway, the Labour Party has been concerned that all children should have a kindergarten as cheap as possible. We've been concerned that all children are entitled to school, and that the school should teach all children to develop their own abilities and self-confidence. We've been working on a well-functioning child protection system to help parents who need help to cope with parenting and help their children out of the family if necessary. We have set up voluntary organisations in the fields of music, song, dance, drama, sports and free youth clubs for young people. All of this is built up to develop our growing family as best possible and give them every opportunity to use all of their creativity in positive and non-criminal ways, and to capture homes with parents who need other adult help by their side in order to provide their children with the best starting point for a lawful adult life. These are many of the preventive factors that we in the Labour Party believe are the most important reason why the Norwegian people in general are a law-abiding people. This is what we need to develop further: more kindergartens, more youth clubs and not fewer, as we are now looking over the whole country. Then we're talking about total anti-crime. Finally, we can, for example: include that had all the children who are ADHD children, been diagnosed early and received the treatment they so badly need, early, and we would also have had fewer criminals. And if all the more than 200,000 children from their homes had been discovered early enough and given the help and the offers they need, our society would have had many fewer alcoholics and drug addicts, which also constitute a not insignificant part of criminal Norway. But then all parties, including the Progress Party, must be involved in significant increases to the municipalities of Norway, so that they can effectively prevent crime. It is according to our private community economy that is the main preventive factor for good, crime-free life, and that builds law-abiding adults who care about the emerging generation. Then we're talking about total anti-crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1412	When a party and individual members promote proposals for debate in the Chamber, it is always interesting to see the response of the other political parties. Do you have a positive attitude, do you see the possibilities in them, or is it about not taking in on the recordings that are coming? Sometimes the answer is variable. For the Progress Party, the content of the respective cases is the basis for dealing with them. When I record how the majority has dealt with this matter, I am certainly in doubt about how the approach has been. I have to say that I am fascinated when the case rapporteur says that the Progress Party is only concerned with more punishment and more to the police. The last is at least correct, because the police we have today cannot possibly trust this government, in which case you will need assistance from the Progress Party. The rapporteur also made a claim for a reduction in the number of reviews. That may be correct, but then perhaps the case rapporteur should take over the signals from the police and others, feedback that people will eventually not be able to report, because you do not get a response from the police on whom the Right vote. In addition, I think it would be incalculable to say that we are not doing anything for others. The party of progress was the party which, in the revised national budget two years ago, had the advantage of the first support for life after reconciliation. So we don't have a bad conscience at all. When the two previous speakers say that the approximation here is too narrow, where are the rest of the parties going? Where's your input to this? Good day, man, axe shaft, this seems to be about, instead of taking this inward. We have just been involved in examining a proposal from the Workers' Party on a faster procedure in the courts. The progress party had no problem with being with and discussing the realities of it, because we thought it made sense! So while here the majority chooses to say that we don't want to be on this, we're adding this to the drawer. It's okay, it's okay, this debate will continue regardless of what the Storting thinks and does. The representative of the Workers' Party spoke about the Workers' Party's ability to take care of the welfare state and welfare community. If it's true that the Labor Party medicine is so good, then why is the relapse rate so great for many of the criminals in this country? I also believe that the concern that the representative Rui raised relates to those who are exposed to everyday crime. I don't think anyone is satisfied with the state of things. The working party may be satisfied, but we are not satisfied. Then, of course, one skips to what is the saluting thing in the Workers' Party, that is, the municipal economy. I don't think the community economy is rewarding in relation to who becomes a criminal and who does not. As far as the proposals are concerned, I record that you leave something to do with them, except that you reject them. I took the liberty of looking at what kind of play the respective representatives have come with. The representative of Hofstad has gone out and proposed that a child be marked electronically. Where is creativity this time? We see that the police say you can't afford a DNA register. The representative of Storberget has been in the media and said that we have to do something about this, here we have to get a national grant. Where's the Great Mountain today? I see him in the hall, but where is he relative to making recordings here? We have young Carsten Dybevig from the Right, who says that we cannot allow the criminal environments to live in the present with their methods, while Norwegian police still have to dwell in the blind in the methods of the past. Where's the Right? Where's the representative, Dybevig? He had a creative and good recording here. When it comes to action, the Right Party and the Government Party show what they actually stand for, and here it is essentially reasonably ill-advised. It's a shame that it's like this. But what's good about it is that there's a clear distinction between those who want to do something about it and those who spend time explaining away. You're fascinated by each other's play, and I'm sure we'll do that for the whole bunch. Again, I allow myself to refer to the representative Dybevig. He wants massive DNA testing. If Carsten Dybevig gets what he wants, even petty criminals and nostrils are at risk of being rolled into a central DNA register. But again, where is the representative Dybevig? Except that he is physically present, he does not agree to take any action to intervene with this. At my discretion, this is about a game for the gallery. Most of the parties in this room are engaged in selling their own messages in the media. You're doing well, but the ability to deliver is not related to what you go around and say. I would like to end by saying that this debate I would like to repeat when the occasion arises. I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1442	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1445	The progress party reminds me of Bulgaria's football landscapes as they played against Sweden when I entered the hall - they only run and compete, but they have no overall strategy for a lasting offensive. But unlike Bulgaria, the Progress Party is doomed to lose. You can't win the fight against crime if you don't have an analysis of what creates crime, who becomes criminals, and what's needed to prevent and bring back to society after punishment. The fact that the Progress Party is promoting proposals for a comprehensive criminal policy without mentioning growing-up conditions for children is not just alarming, it is almost impossible to understand! It just testifies to the fact that the Progress Party has not at all been involved in what it is that produces crime in a society, how important it is that children have a safe framework in their lives, that it is not the individual's choice that decides whether or not to go out on the outside, but that it actually has a lot to do with what kind of opportunities society in general offers children. Hasn't the Progress Party got who's in prison, that most of those sitting there have a large number of - an accumulation of - problems, which are largely growth-related? Has not the Progress Party gained the important role that the school can play? In "Ona Fyr", a book that is very good, and that is written by Ingebrigt Steen Jensen, it is told that the school used to give the children small r-s and large G-s, and that if you had e.g. 18 right on a test, it didn't say that, but there were two errors. So you focused on the children's defeats. School is changing, but school has a long way to go. It's my sacred belief that if we had managed to create a school that was such that its most important task was to map in the first few years, what lives in each child, then to build on it instead of building up under the defeats and giving the children more of what they can't, yes, it would actually be very good, preventive criminal policy. I was once contacted by a very wise farmer in Westfold, named Per. He called me to tell me how important crime prevention work he was doing as a farmer in Westfold by accepting more boys with behavioral problems -- boys who were defined as problem students in general school, and who had a chance with him to show that they were also good. These are three boys who have ADHD, and one in addition to Asberger syndrome, so they are problematic students in a school that is increasingly characterized by cuts, fewer teachers per. pupils and less able to see the children and their resources. What the ordinary school offered these boys was special education and more of what they couldn't -- even more loss experiences -- and the boys became quite aggressive. But instead, they got the opportunity to be out with the farmer Per, that he could take care of them and give them individual arrangements, had an invaluable significance both for these boys, for the schools, who could rather concentrate on other students, and also for their mothers and families, who were trying to wear themselves out completely. This, I believe, is indeed an important part of a "whole" criminal policy, but it is not affected by one word of this "principal criminal" party, the Progress Party, which I see as exposing a very small overall strategy to combat crime in the long term. The party of progress has an inconvenient optimistic belief in punishment as a deterrent effect. That is why, as far as I know, the Progress Party also rejected a request from the Crime Prevention Council for a review of the Party's policy in order to find out to what extent the Progress Party submits works preventively, since SV has asked for the same from KRAED. This is because the Progress Party believes that punishment is invaluable as deterrence and as a preventive mechanism. We believe that the chance of being discovered is particularly important, that the social stigma involved in being discovered is important to a lot of us. But for a good number of criminals - among others the high proportion of drug addicts who commit 70 pst. in terms of profitability - it is not very important, as it is the quality of care that counts. There is also very little affected in this proposal. I think it's weird. That is why the Committee would not deal with the proposal differently from what we have done, namely to reject it, because it is not entirely in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1468	In Document No: 8:54 outlines the recipe of the Progress Party for a targeted and comprehensive fight against crime. The party's "sacred" criminal policy takes place at the bottom of eight A4 pages. Well done, one might say - if the measures had had had such a broad approach to justice policy as the heading should call for. But the proposal is far from complete, as has been pointed out by the others who have spoken so far in the debate. The proposal contains nothing on prevention, nor on criminal and post-criminal protection. So calling the proposal "sacred" is at the limit of the parody. Ensuring the safety and security of the individual is a crucial societal task. In the annual budgets, the various political parties show how we will ensure this through priorities both between and within the various budgetary chapters. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that we have criminal policy challenges that need to be solved in order to maintain Norway as a safe and good society for its citizens. Our objective is clear: justice policy must ensure the rule of law and the security of its citizens. However, the challenges are not solved by simple action and unilateral emphasis on police and punishment, as the Progress Party makes itself the spokesman for through the document proposal. A targeted and comprehensive criminal policy requires an in-depth understanding of the causes of crime. Means and measures must be designed in the light of the insight into the complexity of crime. The proposal does not indicate that the Progress Party has such an approach. If crime policy is to be comprehensive, it is necessary to focus on prevention and after-care. Such measures address the causes of crime, thus contributing to a safer society for all. Police are to prevent and combat crime, which is essential for people's sense of security. Effective courts shall ensure a rapid and correct response to those who break the law. Balance and good flow in the criminal justice chain increase the preventative effect of punishment. This also facilitates the situation of defendants and victims awaiting clarification. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that criminal policy measures must be directed both towards the prevention and enforcement of society's rules. The government has taken a number of measures in recent years to prevent crime. Improved research methods have been developed and the organisation has been quality-enhanced. Substantial efforts have also been made to strengthen the competence of police and other personnel to combat crime. The police role is constantly evolving to meet the challenges that crime and crime pose to society. Among other things, the police have increasingly focused on identifying problem areas and putting their efforts up afterwards. The problem-oriented police work is strengthened - and that's good! In recent years, a number of legislative changes have been adopted to address the problems raised by the proposers. For example, I can. mention new rules on the withdrawal of dividends, the extension of the use of exceptional investigation methods, legal measures to protect the actors in criminal proceedings against threats and reprisals, etc. Several of the proposals proposed in Document No are already being worked on. 8:54. I also allow myself to remind myself that the police in the revised national budget are prioritised with resources, so that, among other things, it is. the possibility of recruiting newly-trained police students in job vacancies corresponding to 180 years of age. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Progress Party in the aim of the document proposal: a comprehensive and targeted criminal policy is necessary for both peoples and countries. The problem is simply: the proposal from the Progress Party does not help us to achieve the goal. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not support any of the proposals put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1498	Like the proposers, I too, as Minister of Justice and Citizens, am concerned about the image of crime. This is precisely why, on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, a number of legislative changes have been adopted in recent years aimed at tackling the problems raised by the proposers, including: new rules on the withdrawal of dividends, the extension of the use of exceptional investigation methods, legal measures to protect the actors in criminal proceedings against threats and reprisals, new rules on fictitious identity, increased penalties in the event of a criminal offence and against repeaters and legal measures against the illegal use of knives and firearms, against child and youth crime, against organised crime and against terrorism, to mention something. I am now sending out the policing committee's position on new, and expanding the basis for, non-traditional methods to be consulted. In order to protect the rule of law, we need to be open to considering new methods. In addition, a number of legislative changes have been adopted to ensure that criminal proceedings are speeded up. The police reform shall contribute to strengthening police operations and improving the accessibility of the public. The government emphasises a comprehensive criminal policy with cooperation across different, relevant institutions, with a strong focus on prevention efforts to prevent children and young people from being recruited into criminal activity. As an example of the multidisciplinary approach, five departments, each of which has a partial responsibility for young offenders, shall cooperate in the implementation of the pilot project. The main focus is on minors under and above the criminal detainee, 15 years of age, with risk behaviour, and young people over 15 years of age who are serving prison or community sentences, possibly being held in custody. We know that drugs are a major contributory cause of various types of crime. This is why the Government has presented a cross-ministerial action plan on drug policy. The focus here is on a unified, overall policy on work in the field of drugs policy. Police areas are important to combat illegal trafficking, prevent new recruiting and conduct concerns with young criminals. The intelligence activities of the police shall be central to the fight against organised crime. Just because we recognise that serious organised crime represents major challenges, the Government in the proposal for a revised national budget has outlined the principles of the new special body to combat this societal problem. The statistics on recorded violent crimes in recent years may give the impression of an increase in the level of violence in Norway. However, figures from the Statistical Centre show a decrease in the number of violent crimes reported from the first half of 2002 to the first half of 2003 from 13,424 to 12,482. The fight against violence is a very high priority of the prosecution authority. High attention to an area can contribute to an increase in the number of notifications. We have seen this, among other things. within family violence. For the Government, the fight against violence in all its forms is a priority field. If violence is to be combated, it must be reported and brought to light. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Government intends to present proposals for a new general part of the penal code already this major session. Here I would like to present my government's criminal policy and proposals for the provision on the type of punishment, the principle of penalties, the reason why the punishment can be reduced or tightened. In this case, the size of the law will have a unique opportunity to see criminal policy in an overall context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1524	As one of the most important elements in the fight against crime and clarification, the tool available to the police is often crucial. Of the things that the Justice Committee and the Government have followed up, the use of DNA is undoubtedly an important tool. Englishmen have used it with great success in terms of everyday and profit crime, where there has also been an increase in the percentage of information, from 14 to 40. In Norway, the problem is perceived, at least as feedback, as not being able to afford to bet on the national register of DNA. This is justified by the fact that each station and each area has to cover the costs of such analysis and then have it registered. I now register that other parties have also taken the initiative to assess another organisation of this. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: can the Minister of Justice imagine a new system for the payment of DNA samples, where it is covered by a central post?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1534	I've previously, in different contexts, expressed two aspects of this. First, in the near future, the government will put down its own sample to look at DNA, both the use we have today, and any expansion, to combat crime. I also said in the context of the challenges facing forensic work, that I am working on what kind of funding system we have. So these questions we're inside. That means that being sure that we can handle the material we have, and possibly expand it, is on my agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1539	Since overall criminal policy also requires combating domestic violence, and since we know a lot about what domestic violence does to children - some of the boys growing up in such homes, end up sailing up as violent, and some of the daughters become victims of violence - I think it's in their place to ask what the Minister of Justice thinks about the sad fact that only 5 out of 27 police districts have family violence coordinators employed on full-time, which has been thoroughly illustrated, among other things. through several media. It worries me a lot. It should also worry the Council of States very much, as this has been in a way the flagship of the Government. My question is: will the Minister of Justice take initiatives, for example: to earmark the appropriations for family violence coordinators, or will he otherwise ensure that we get these posts up?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1546	First of all, I want to give great recognition to those policemen and others who have made sure that family violence and what was previously hidden has come up and forth in the light. We're going to enjoy that. It is a fact that the family violence coordinator system is under evaluation. The results of the evaluation and how the scheme can be developed will be incorporated into the Government's new action plan against violence in close relations, where we will also address the issues addressed by the representative in relation to the situation of children, i.e. children who experience violence being committed and how it works for their children. Similarly, we will also address the situation of those who commit violence. So how can we have more thoughts in our head at the same time to do something about this question? As far as earring is concerned, it is my view that police reform requires freedom under responsibility. There are then different forms of close dialogue to promote instruments in this area as well. It's my impression that the management of the Police Directorate is focusing on it and is committed to this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1555	In the case of proposal 13, which addresses the possibility of providing prison places for foreign criminals in their country of origin, the Council of State spends some time responding to a problem with regard to whether other countries will deal with this. Have you seen the possibility of buying or renting prison places? Have you ever tried to get an agreement, for example? with the United States and Canada, on concretely renting prisons for those concerned, and not only transferring under conventions, but also being a little proactive on the part of the Norwegian State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1562	In my answer to the question of proposal 13, I explained that there were 274 foreign nationals in prison, and it was explained what kind of legal basis we have to transfer to other countries. It was also explained which countries have the most citizens in Norwegian prisons. Let me mention in short: Iraq 23, former Yugoslavia 20, Lithuania 19, Sweden 15, Somalia 14, Iran 12, the Netherlands 11 and Pakistan 10. Of these, only prisoners from Sweden, Lithuania and the Netherlands can be transferred under the legislation in force. As far as European countries are concerned, they are probably struggling with their cows and quite overcrowded prisons. I have come to realize that it is the wish of the Storting that we should have a criminal enforcement policy that, in addition to the fact that people should settle for themselves, will give them a chance to return to society as people, even in the context where they are punishing such punishments. That's still the policy I'm using.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1571	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1576	I will allow myself to try to be short within a three-minute post. I fully agree with the rapporteur and the others who have spoken. The rapporteur has made an unusually good statement. These are measures that are not comprehensive. It would be very damaging for the fight against crime if you now really went into the trap and thought that we were here in the process of granting ourselves a comprehensive criminal policy. If we had conducted such a policy in the last 50 years, there would probably have been more crime in Norway. That's the one. The second is to prevent all the debates that we are going to discuss, including: In a future election campaign, where we will probably hear people from the Progress Party say that we have voted against all these proposals. I want to say that precisely these proposals, in addition to being incomplete, are almost inconceivably poorly formulated and so difficult to go into that in itself, if the Stortinge would possibly do so, would block the possibility of a good investigation, a good procedure. I mention in particular the question of DNA, which has come into the final phase. Most of them are probably occupied with, among others. to extend the possibilities of registration in relation to DNA certificates. This will not help at all. If any of us, for example, would also be interested in looking at possibilities for extension of methodology, it would be almost impossible for the Stortinget to go on proposal 2, in which it says that the Stortinget should ask "The government is promoting the necessary legislative changes in order to use so-called non-traditional investigation methods, such as snooping, provocation, etc." Is not this a field where we're just going to be very strict in relation to what we like as big as we want, where you just have to define what kind of method the police should have, and when. As for the reason why some of the parties and especially my own, the Workers' Party, actually opposes the whole proposal, it's not necessarily because we don't see the need to use other types of methods, not necessarily because we don't see the need for use of DNA in a larger range than what is proposed, but because here we have made a proposal that is so to say impossible to go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1585	It is interesting in itself to hear the general criminal policy of the other parties, not least in this case, which limits itself to attaching the matter to the protocol. Nor can I see that any other batches have chosen to use the opportunity to actually show what measures they could imagine. I am somewhat uncertain about Storberget's mention of very difficult-to-reach proposals. I cannot understand that proposal 3 - "The government is asking for the necessary legislative amendments so that the police can use space and communications interception in matters of national security and terror" - is an incredibly difficult proposal. Similarly, the question of exemption from charges for the police service vehicle may hardly be seen as a very difficult proposal available. But I guess that's the way in this room that it's amazing what's hard, if you don't want to know. Here it's probably not really a question of not being able to acquire, but more a question of not wanting to acquire. In this context, we do have experience from the past that we can look forward to the summer holiday that will soon be at the door, and I will not be surprised if a not insignificant number of these proposals appear, rightly from other parties, and where we expect our support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1594	I'll make it quick and easy. The representative Storberget challenged me, and when the glove is thrown, you should occasionally take it up and down, but here I couldn't stop. He firmly rejects the proposal for DNA and firmly rejects the proposal for space listening and provocation. Of course he can. But if it was the case that the representative Storberget and the Workers' Party had some intention of doing something about it, it is the way the committee deals with the proposals, writes the necessary comments and has the opportunity to make the necessary proposals. So I think the explanation Storberget delivered here is not true at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1601	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[See page 3262]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1616	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3263]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1629	The cancellation is then ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map. As previously agreed, the Foreign Minister's foreign policy statement on case No. 1 will be given treatment in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1638	In the course of the debate, 13 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals No. 2-4, from Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 5-8, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 9-12, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 13, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The decision asks the Government to ensure that the various loans of the House Bank are generally granted as fixed-rate loans."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1669	President! I could not vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1676	Why not? Is the Bastisen going to vote for or against?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1679	I have to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1686	The Socialist Left's proposal was then rejected by 83 votes to 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1689	Can I immediately say what to vote for, and what to vote against?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1696	No, it's completely unnecessary. The bastese can only vote. The President cannot see the need for the Coastal Party to give any explanation of vote on these proposals. Is there any particular proposal that the Bastisen should vote for?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1699	Yes. Proposal No. 2. From the Workers' Party, I shall vote against. I am voting in favour of the other proposals by the Labour Party. With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party, I shall vote against proposals No. 9, 11 and 12, but for proposal No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1706	It is then voted on the proposals Nos. 9 and 11 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: "The Government asks the Government to propose the repeal of the national policy provisions of Section 17-2 of the Planning and Building Act prohibiting the construction and dissociation of the 100 meter belt along the sea, so that this responsibility is transferred to the local self-government." Proposal No. 11 sounds: "The Government requests the closure of the central approval register for the construction industry and, instead, changes the central approval system to become a voluntary branch scheme in the construction industry's own right."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1726	The proposals are then put to the vote. 10 and 12, also from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: "The Government requests the reintroduction of the system of external control at the construction sites and, at the same time, the removal of the system of documented self-control in the construction industry." Proposal No. 12 sounds: "The Government asks the Government to clarify the legal basis of the Norwegian Housing Scheme in relation to the EEA provisions on the free movement of capital and against the Convention on Human Rights."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1748	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5, 6 and 8 from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: "The government is asking for a new law on non-commercial rental housing companies." Proposal No. 6 sounds: "The government asks the Government to ensure that increased housing allowances for housing for the homeless are linked to an obliging plan for housing social follow-up from the municipality". Proposal No. 8 sounds: "The government is asked to facilitate the inclusion of one-person households with low incomes in the 2005 state budget proposal."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1775	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The decision asks the Government to provide the Stortinget with an assessment of whether independent third-party construction control at the construction site should be reintroduced." The Progress Party has announced its support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1792	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government is asked to introduce a grant scheme for municipalities building dwellings beyond a minimum level. The grant is set at NOK 40000 for each dwelling in addition to a figure of 0,5 pst. by the population of the municipality."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1807	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government asks the Government to ensure that the House Bank continues to provide loans for measures related to the primary school reform."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1822	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The decision asks the Government to assess whether the housing aid scheme should be extended to low income as well." The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have warned that they support this proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1839	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government asks the government to assess various aspects of the use of fixed-interest loans in the housing market and to present this to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner." The Socialist Left has warned that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1877	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1957	The President expects the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1973	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 8 June 2004: "The government is asking the Government to take immediate action on all matters which are now dealt with by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs and which may include matters of national security or foreign policy."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e1991	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Olaf Gedrem on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, by Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 5, from Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on the proposal from the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: "As a general rule, the Government asks the Government to ensure that dividends from State power on average shall be 50 pst. within a framework of 5 years.";
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2018	It is to be voted on by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and The proposal reads as follows: "The government asks the government to propose to convert Statkraft SF into a listed company with 30 pst. the sale of private owners in connection with the proceedings of the Storting concerning the introduction of an owner-neutral withdrawal scheme."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2033	It is voted on by the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government asks the Government to base the ordinary rules of the Share Act on the determination of dividends from Statkraft SF."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2054	An alternative will be used between the setting and the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: "The size consents to Statkraft SF being reorganised mainly under the conditions described in the proposition, by transferring the activities and assets of Statkraft SF to the underlying limited liability company and by organising the company according to a group model." Proposal No. 2 sounds: "State power SF's loan and guarantee framework is repealed."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2097	Here the President has understood that the Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2100	We want to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2105	The Progress Party wants to vote in favour. Then no one wants to vote against, right?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2108	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2126	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Olaf Gedrem on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 2, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The proposal reads as follows: "The Government asked the Government to examine the seven models mentioned above in order to ensure national ownership in the power sector and to submit the investigation and a recommendation to the Government in the context of the 2005 State Budget."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2154	There will be a vote between the Committee's position and the proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: "Document No. 8:75 [[2003-2004]] The President has understood that the Progress Party wants to support the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party. - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2174	During the debate, 21 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 3, by Sylvia Brustad on behalf of the Workers' Party, 4-9, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on the proposals No. 10-12, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 13-19, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party 20 and 21, from Inger S. Enger on behalf of the Centre Party Steinar Bastesen - for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2198	I'll take it from here. As regards proposal No: 5 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, I shall vote against. I am voting in favour of the other proposals. Then I shall vote in favour of the proposal No. 13 and 14. Proposals Nos. 15 and 16 I vote against. Proposals Nos. 17 and 18 I vote in favour. Proposal No. 19 I vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2207	I could borrow that list, and it would have been so much easier. Then the secretary got it. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. Twenty-one and twenty-one from the Center Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: "The Research and Innovation Fund will be allocated 2 billion. from 1 July 2004. The increased return of approx. Eighty million. crowns shall be used for long-term and fundamental research aimed at the petroleum sector."; Proposal No. 21 sounds: "The Government asks the Government to submit a revised plan for the development and operation of Snow White in line with the Petroleum Act § 4-2"
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2229	The proposals are then put to the vote. 13, 14, 17 and 18, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: "The Government is asking the Government to review the licensing system and framework conditions for operators and partners, and to propose a more offensive strategy to exploit the resources in the fields already opened." Proposal No. 14 sounds: "The government is asking the Government to establish a stronger link between allocation policy and performance for increased extraction rates." Proposal No. 17 sounds: "The Government is asking for the implementation of a technology development programme aimed at enabling the removal of all installations on a Norwegian base in the event of block closure in a way that ensures the environment, quality and safety." Proposal No. 18 sounds: "The government asks the Government to ensure that the increased return of the Research and Innovation Fund is used for long-term, fundamental research aimed at the petroleum sector, focusing mainly on the field of energy-environment intersections with research-based innovation/demonstration of CO2 deposition solutions, and to focus in particular on the long-term impact of marine emissions."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2261	The proposals are then put to the vote. 15, 16 and 19, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: "The Government requests the conversion of SFT's emissions permit for CO2 from the Snow White Energy Facility, in line with the Sem declaration's assumption that additional concession and emission permits are granted only to gas power plants based on CO2-free technology." Proposal No. 16 sounds: "The Government is asking the Government, in the context of the Government's comprehensive description of Petoro in the draft State budget for 2005, to review changes in the management role of Petoros for a more active role, in order to promote CO2 injection projects as quickly as possible in all relevant areas of Norwegian soil." Proposal No. 19 reads: "The government is asking the GIEK Government to review the award criteria - in order to strengthen the focus on the philosophy of environmental and extraction efficiency and to stimulate greater interaction between technology companies and further develop INTSOK, or to form a target forum, against exports of environmental and extraction efficiency technologies."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2288	The proposals are then put to the vote. 10, 11 and 12, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: "The government is asking for proposals for necessary tax adjustments on Norwegian continental shelf in the context of the 2005 State Budget in accordance with the KonKraft reports." Proposal No. 11 sounds: "The Government requests the opening of petroleum activities throughout the Lofoten-Barents Sea area from 1 July 2004." Proposal No. 12 sounds: "The decision asks the Government to propose to the State budget for 2005 an increase in the petroleum research fund to 10 billion. crowns."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2315	The proposals are then put to the vote. 4, 6, 7, 8 and 9, of the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: "The decision asks the Government to come back with an appropriate explanation of how zero physical environmental emissions related to petroleum activity at sea and on land are to be achieved and how the objective is to be enforced and verified." Proposal No. 6 sounds: "The government is asking the oil companies to prepare action plans to reduce CO2 emissions on the base." Proposal No. 7 sounds: "The Government is asking the Government, in the context of the 2005 State Budget, to explain the content of a clean and inclusive process to assess petroleum-free areas and to establish the overall management plan for the Lofoten-Barents Sea." Proposal No. 8 sounds: "The Government is asking the Government to draw up a list of requirements for what is satisfactory preparedness in the Barents Sea." Proposal No. 9 sounds: "The Government is asked, in the context of the 2005 State Budget, to provide an assessment of Statoil and the time-limited plan of rightholders to test CO2 abatement technologies, and to propose measures to implement it."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2352	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government is asking for a detailed explanation of the greenhouse gas emissions from the petroleum sector in the context of the State budget for 2005 and proposes measures to reduce them significantly."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2367	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The size asks the Government, in cooperation with the industry, to look at measures such as volume reductions in petroleum taxes in relation to tail production, and to report back to the Stortinget no later than spring 2005. The Progress Party has warned that they support this proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2384	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party and the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: "The decision asks the Government, in cooperation with the industry, to carry out a review of the smaller shares and to see if changes can be made to them in order to achieve more efficient operation of individual fields." Proposal No. 2 sounds: "The size asks the Government in cooperation with the industry to propose incentives for increased exploration."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2427	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2462	The President here expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2481	The President here expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2511	During the debate, Mr Voksdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government is asked to promote by 2004 an action plan for the construction of gas power plants with the same CO2 management requirements as in the EU." This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2536	During the debate, Mr Korsberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government is asked to promote by the end of 2004 an overall plan to provide, inter alia, an overview of costs, positive and negative environmental aspects, impacts on travel life, security of supply and the like in the construction of wind power plants in Norway."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2542	This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2562	During the debate, Mr Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward two proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds: "The government is asking the government to re-examine legislation and practices regarding district shares, in order to make this more accurate and fair, so that flood prevention and remediation after floods are fully covered by the state." Proposal No. 2 sounds: "The government asks the government to waive the requirement for a district share after the flood in August 2003." These proposals will be replaced by the Committee's voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2595	During the debate, Mr Øye presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: "The government asks the government to establish a archipelago park in Eastfold from the county border towards Akershus to and including Iddefjord." Alternatives are proposed between this proposal and the referral by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2620	Mr Glötvold will have the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2623	I want to say on behalf of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party that we are voting against the vote. This is not the case today, as there was no debate on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2628	There are some things that have gone away quickly today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2648	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 9 June 2004: "The Government is asking the Government to draw up a new law on xenotransplantation, based on the Council of Europe guidelines of 19 June 2003, on the objective of the law's entry into force from 1 January 2007. It is the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party that are behind the proposal, so the President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2668	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 9 June 2004: "The Government is asking the Government to assess the establishment of an organ donor register or other measures in order to achieve increased organ donation, and to present the matter to the Stortinge in the spring of 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2684	The vote will take place on the proposal by Harald T. Nesvik, representing the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the Socialist Left and the Central Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 8 June 2004: "The government is asked to assess, in the context of the 2005 State budget, whether the amount of the facilitation grant is sufficient to counteract the negative development of employment and follow-up of disabled persons."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2704	The vote will take place on the proposal by Harald T. Nesvik, representative of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, submitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 8 June 2004: "The Government asks the Government to ensure that non-IA enterprises are also able to receive an organisation grant in line with the IA activities."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2722	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "1. The government is asking the government to target the fight against crime by giving priority to a comprehensive and massive effort, as well as to follow-up, to juvenile and reoccurrence criminals through all stages of the criminal action chain.2. The Government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes in order to use so-called non-traditional investigation methods, such as snooping, provocation, etc., as well as to allow provocation, against repeat offenders convicted under the criminal law for three or more criminal offences, within a period of 10 years.3. The government is asking the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to enable the police to use space and communications interception in matters of national security and terrorism.4. The Government asks the Government to transfer the financial responsibility of the embassy guard at the foreign embassies in Norway to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to promote the necessary legislative proposals for this purpose for the Stortinget.5. The government is asking the government to present a comprehensive policing plan for police personnel from a four-year perspective. As part of the plan, a stepping-up plan for the use of civil servants in the police force to release police-trained personnel for police duties.6. The Government is asking the Government to suspend the scheme of the appointment of police officers as officials and to make the necessary proposals.7 The government is asking the police to secure job offers to the high-school police students who are graduating this year.8 The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a substantial increase in penalties for violence against public officials.9 The Government is asking the Government to step up its work on a common Norse witness protection programme and, if necessary, to make proposals to the Grand Duchy to this effect.10 The size requests the Government to submit a rolling stock replacement plan for the police vehicle from a five-year perspective, as well as upgrading police ICT equipment with, inter alia, portable/mobile ICT equipment in a service vehicle.11. The decision requests the Government to introduce a tax exemption on the police service vehicle and to promote the necessary legislative proposals to this effect for Stortinget.12. The size asks the Government to ensure the progressive storage of weapons in police vehicles and a plan for upgrading weapons equipment. The decision further asks the Government to make a greater effort to ensure that the individual official can choose whether to use the machine gun/automatic weapon if the weapons order is first issued.13. The government is asking the government to investigate and initiate attempts to zone foreign nationals in its home country by renting detention centres in its home country, and to promote the necessary legislative amendments to this effect.14 The government is asking the government to take action to prioritise reoccurrence criminals for restitution.15 The government is asking for the necessary legislative amendments so that the district court is put with only one professional judge, such as in the hearing, in cases where the penal framework is only prison for up to two years.16 The government is asking the government to start work on setting up its own institutions for children’s and youth criminals for specific follow-up, and to make proposals to the Stortinge.17 The size calls on the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to make greater use of coercive measures combined with detoxification/treatment against criminals with major drug problems, and to set up its own departments with appropriate follow-up for highly addicted prisons.18 The Grand Government is asking the Government to stop immediately the special scheme of advanced parole of five days respectively for those with judges less than 90 days and 10 days for those with longer judges.19 The majority asks the Government in the context of next year's budget to set up a mechanism for the central payment of forensic tasks such as the uptake of DNA profiles and DNA registration, as well as autopsy." This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2789	There are some of the proposals from the Progress Party to which I shall vote no.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2796	It's just one suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2799	It is the wish of the Committee that we vote on the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2806	Yes, that's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-2.ana.ud1521e2826	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2004: "The government is asking the Government to take the necessary steps to coordinate wage trends through a joint coordinating body and to make a progress plan for this in the 2005 state budget."
