ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e74	The representatives Finn Kristian Marthinsen and Finn Martin Vallersnes, who have been on leave, have again taken up seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e86	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Kjell Engebretsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings today and tomorrow. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting should depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure, and carry out an overall vote after the cases are closed. 1–7 on today’s map has been completed – hopefully during the morning meeting – and then combined voting after case no. 8 and 9, at the end of today's meeting. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e105	Maybe you could say there was a little bit of anomaly last year. At that time, the Committee delivered a shared budgetary position, which is not the normal one. This year we're back to normal again. In other words, the Committee has delivered a unanimous budgetary position. The budget setting includes the Storting and the institutions subject to the Storing. These are the Riksrevisionen, the Stortinge Ombudsman for the administration and the Stortinge Control Committee for the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Service. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to express my satisfaction with the work done, both by these and by the Administration of Storting. A budget reduction of 78.5 million has been proposed. kr – 6,25 pst. – in relation to the balanced budget of the framework area 14. The whole reduction must be carried out in the budget of the Grand Duchy. The budget is reduced by 101 million. kr – 11 pst. – in relation to the financial framework of the year. The only reason for this is that construction activities culminate in 2004 and decline in 2005. Many have faced challenges in their working day because of the construction activities that have taken place since 2003. Many people have even had to endure a lot of noise. As a result of the extensive construction activity, Stortinget has received a committee building and improved working conditions for the big business representatives. Next year, we're going to have the experience center under Wessels' place. The Committee looks forward to its implementation and has high expectations that it will lead to greater democratic involvement among young people. Gross operating costs will increase in some areas. This is due to additional costs associated with the rental and operation of new premises, landfill options, security measures and, in particular, the 100th anniversary of the Union resolution next year. The Committee also stresses that the Presidency must always focus on financial management. There is no provision for special operating costs in 2005. The Mehamn Commission has been working for two years. Following a request from the Commission of Inquiry, the Presidency has extended the deadline for its release until 1 March 2005. The operating costs next year are taken from unused funds this year. The national audit is the Stortinge’s main instrument for the Stortinge to exercise its control function. I would like to stress the importance of the Riksrevision getting the space for action needed to do this important job. This year, the Storting has dealt with the law and instructions of the National Audit Office and has therefore done something right. The Committee considers that it is essential that the Riksrevision be provided with the resources necessary for effective and thorough control. The activities of the National Audit Office require highly qualified staff and the Committee therefore welcomes the emphasis placed on this in the draft budget for 2005. The complaint has just dealt with the annual report for the company at the Civil Ombudsman’s office. There should therefore be no reason to go deeper into the operation there. The Committee welcomes the fact that the draft budget means that the Agency will have two new posts next year. This should allow for more and more out-of-court action, which is in line with the Ombudsman's wish. However, the Committee would like to say that next year the Civil Ombudsman's seas will be given increased resources, so that the procedure can be shortened, a stepping-up plan should be set up by the Ombudsman's secretariat. The Ombudsman is the people’s lawyer, who is to contribute to respect for human rights and who is to monitor that the administration does not commit injustice against the individual citizen – important tasks that the Storting must ensure that resources are available to carry out. So, to the EOS Committee. Since 11 September, information exchange and cooperation between the EOS services of the various countries have increased. The same has been true of the counter-terrorism in domestic services. This requires increased competence and resources of those who are required to control services. Control is becoming increasingly important from the point of view of rights and democracy. Last year, the EOS Committee asked for a new position to meet the challenges. This budget incorporates funds for a new position as a legal professional. I would also refer to the Committee's comments and recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e133	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 697]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e148	The review by the National Audit Office of the parts of the 2002 government accounts of the ‘To-Observation’ deciduous nature has been dealt with by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, which submits a unanimous opinion. Nor in the notes are there major disagreements. This means that, in substance, the Committee endorses the Riksrevisions. A few words about a few points. As far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned, this department has been struggling for several years with parts of its accounting work. However, the Committee agrees with the National Audit Office's observations that the accounts for 2002 have now been completed. With regard to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, there has been some concern about data security and the necessary safety requirements related to personal data. The Committee is therefore very pleased that a significant effort has now been made to improve this part of the ministry’s work. There is still a very long procedure at the State Health and County Medical Services. This, of course, leads to an additional burden for patients, for relatives and perhaps not least for health professionals themselves. We see that the treatment time here does not go down. The majority of the Committee, in its observations, asks the Government to assess whether the Health Authority has sufficient resources to carry out the tasks assigned to it. We see some of the same situation as regards the length of proceedings for complaints at county offices. But here we also see significant variations between the different county offices. With regard to the time of handling of complaints by the authorities, it is important that it does not become disproportionately long. For its part, the Committee will follow up this work in the future, and we hope that we can see a relatively immediate improvement here. Finally, some words about the levying of taxes: Among other things, we see: that the tax liability for the control of tax collection offices has been extended. The Committee stresses the fundamental importance of all contributing to the Community through the tax system. It is therefore very important that this system and its collection operate in a way that everyone understands and understands, and that there is predictability in the way we carry out this work. The National Audit Office will review this work in 2005. I think that we should not just focus on coercive schemes and strong instruments in terms of tax collection. In this area, as in most other areas of society, cooperation, with information, with contact and communication is likely. We now have experience that it is the small tax collection offices that have the best call results, or what is called the highest level of solution. This is simply because these offices are the best way to achieve communication and dialogue with tax payers. It is probably easier for these small offices to have this kind of contact with taxpayers and to be able to get the dialogue that is needed to bring in the tax in the way you want. But also a large office, like that in Kristiansand, shows very good results by working this way. I am quite sure that the Riksrevision in its study in the coming years will also focus significantly on this part of the work. The most important thing for society is that the tax actually comes in. It is not just coercive measures and ‘strong lye’ that function in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e174	By Document No 3:1 from the Riksrevision we have received a review and evaluation of the notes to the government accounts for 2002, including: five notes were decidated ‘To be observed’. In addition, the document contains a follow-up to administrative audits handled by Stortinget. With regard to the five notes ‘To observation’, the Riksrevision now concludes that they have been completed. I believe that the Riksrevision has been able to conclude because one has seen that a number of measures have been taken to address the problems that have been identified in the past. In particular, the Minister of Defence has been very clear – even here in the United Kingdom as late as the debate on the state accounts for 2002, on 11 March this year – about the challenges and transition problems that you have to face. In this debate, the Minister for Defence said inter alia: the following: ‘What we have done represents a major system change, with of course associated challenges during the run-in period. In the long term, however, the conversions, together with the National Audit Action Plan and the letters of implementation of the Heads of State or Government concerned, will ensure that we have a continuous and good follow-up to the conditions of the National Audit Office at all times.’ With the reporting and feedback that has gone to Stortinget – both in writing and orally through debates and presentations – as well as the reporting back to the National Audit Office as the Supervisory Body of the Stortinge, I feel that the Minister of Defence has ensured a continuous and good information about the challenges you have faced, and the actions that have been taken. However, this debate should not develop into a debate on the accounts for 2003. We will come back to that on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e188	Follow-up to administrative audits is instructive both for the administration and not least for us in the Stortinget. One of the points on which a new review was announced in 2005 is the collection of taxes, as the case-speaker mentions. This I agree with. The last feedback we have in that context was Document No. 3:12 for 1999-2000, and as underlined by the case-speaker, all those with tax powers shall contribute to the community. Then the discussion is about how the tax rate best achieves this. In general, we must say that we have a very well-functioning tax rate in Norway. But no system is created that can't work better, like here too. The document points out that there is a different practice between municipalities. This, in my view, is not negative, but actually reasonable. In many small municipalities, conditions are transparent, and the tax rate often knows most employers. This means that the department also knows who it is that is punctual and conscientious, and who wants to settle for it. I wish that, to a greater extent than the last time we had this for treatment, it was examined to what extent an actual business was to drive the tax-free tax, instead of how many coercive measures are being implemented. A taxpayer who has never failed to meet a tax requirement shall speak before a set of coercive measures. As an employer in a small business for many years, I'm going to say that this is the everyday life in many places around our country. Therefore, the result must be counted, not how many outlays and enforcement measures are carried out. The criterion for a good collection is not the most possible and strictest possible collection measures, but a short and well-closed one by obtaining the tax that is equal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e197	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 698]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e212	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e223	The 2005 Justice Budget is a clear, clear and good response to the major challenges facing Norway in the fight against crime. Over several years, the Government has stressed that society should be equipped to meet organised criminal groups who, through their activities, try to break down the order of society and create fear and insecurity. The NOKAS in Stavanger clearly shows that we are facing environments that are willing to go extremely far to achieve their goals. It is therefore with satisfaction that I, as chairman of the Judicial Committee, can say that as a society, we will do everything we can to expose and break down these criminal networks. In order to do that, we are dependent on a police force, a judiciary and a criminal body that has the necessary tools and promises to combat this activity. Next year's budget is a good step in the right direction. The main policy lines are largely agreed on, but the dosage of funds at the different stages of the criminal action chain is somewhat different. In its general comments, the Committee expressed its support for the Government's main objectives to combat crime. The Committee has noted that the Government will pursue a value-based justice policy that ensures citizens security, democracy and legal certainty. The Committee endorses these priorities and believes that this provides a good basis for a rule of law that both protects citizens from abuse by the authorities and also underlines that society has a duty to protect its citizens from abuse by other citizens. Crime policy must focus both on the individual’s responsibility for their own actions and on the conditions in society that affect the development of crime. The Committee would also stress that the crime scene has changed a lot in recent years and is still changing. This presents society with different challenges of a different nature, and we believe it is important to pursue a dynamic justice policy that enables society to meet these challenges. It is absolutely central that there is sufficient resources and a law that accompanies development. I believe that the government presented a good budget for justice with increased commitment to the police as its main priority. This has been further strengthened following the agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party. At the same time, the courts have been strengthened by 25 million. NOK 30 million have also been added to the agreement between the parties to the Judicial Committee. to strengthen criminal law enforcement. This is good and will help maintain the balance in the criminal justice chain. I want to thank the Progress Party for a good tone of constructive negotiations and a good result that will improve the country's citizens' security and the justice sector's working conditions next year. The Committee would stress the importance of police in ensuring the main objectives of justice policy. A strong and visible police force is one of the key prerequisites of a secure society. We are aware that the police have been in a depressed resource situation and are therefore very pleased that the police are getting an increase in the 2005 budget. The government made a solid increase in police budgets, and after the agreement with the Progress Party, the police will receive 465 million. kr more next year. If you subtract the amount to cover the increase in prices and wages, the police's appropriations will be increased by 331 million. kr in 2005. The Committee would clarify that the increased funds should be used rather than for salary increases. The Committee would also stress the responsibilities of the establishment for the increased funds to provide a more active police force in the local environment. Furthermore, the Committee considers that a debate on the development of Norwegian police in the future is important and therefore meets the police role message with great interest. In particular, the Committee is concerned with how the division of tasks in the police department should be in order to ensure an active and operational police force. The assessment of tasks that can be transferred to untrained personnel is interesting in view of the optimum use of resources. The Committee asks that, in the context of the police reporting, the Ministry assess whether tasks such as embassy watchkeeping, the transport of asylum seekers and the transport of prisoners may be carried out by persons without three years of higher education. Preventing crime is essential to creating a safer society for citizens. The Committee considers work on children and young people and drug users to be particularly important and calls for close and committed interaction across all sectors of society. Focusing on the cause of crime is, in the Committee's view, very central to the adoption of the measures that will be most effective. The fight against organised crime has been a high priority in recent years. Police have been given the opportunity to use new and untraditional methods of investigation, and the Committee will clarify that these possibilities should be exploited in the fight against organised crime. Although the law is strengthened in this field, the police are facing major challenges in preventing, detecting and investigating serious organised crime. This places great demands on the organisation and coordination of police action in this area. The Committee has great expectations that New Kripos will become a body capable of meeting this type of crime with the necessary competence and content. The Committee points out that the last year has been marked by a series of violent riots, with concern for increasing brutality and increased use of weapons. The Committee believes that ensuring both public and police safety in such situations is a major challenge. The justice sector has a great responsibility to organise instruments that ensure a society where people can feel safe both outdoors and at home, and where people can move freely without fear of violence. Security against abuse is a prerequisite for freedom and the development of life and thus a prerequisite for a functioning society. The fight against so-called everyday crime is important to give people the most a sense of security. In this context, problem-oriented police work is an interesting and important police method. In agreement with the Progress Party, we have agreed to give three municipalities in Buskerud the opportunity to try this out following an initiative by Lensmann Hartz in Modum. It will be exciting to see what experience is gained in this project. A rapid response to crime has both individual and general prevention effects. The Committee would also point out that effective criminal proceedings strengthen the value of evidence, in particular the testimony, and contribute to ensuring proper decisions and thus strengthen legal certainty. A rapid treatment also reduces the burden on defendants, offended persons and their relatives. The Committee considers that it is very important that the time between the conduct of a criminal offence and the prosecution and the existence of a conviction is short. The Committee points out that a number of legislative changes have been implemented over the last three years to ensure more rapid criminal proceedings. This includes, inter alia: time limits for the denunciation of certain types of cases, the tightening of the free choice of defenders, the extension of access to the interception of evidence and legislative changes giving the police the competence to settle the issue of appeal in several cases. In particular, the Committee would point to the judge's responsibility for governing the use of time in criminal matters. The Court’s administration also has a task of facilitating the effective follow-up of the legislative changes adopted. The Committee would stress the need for individualised criminal responses to prevent new offences and to achieve the objective of bringing the convicted person back to society as a law-abiding citizen. Social policy instruments play an important role here, and binding interaction between different administrative bodies is essential. I am pleased to note that the targeted work to bring down the queue results. From a peak quotation of over 2,800 in pay queues, the figure at the last count is a little over 1,800. 29 new settlements in Drammen and Eidsberg next year, as well as more than 80 new places open in these days, will allow for further reduction. Individually adapted criminal services also require specific measures for repeaters and persons associated with serious organised crime. The Committee would stress the need for strict security measures for convictions linked to organised crime. In the opinion of the Committee, those who break rules and abuse trust shall be treated more stringently than other prisoners. These require strict rules on leave, strict communication control, frequent searches and, in some cases, the transfer of prisoners between departments or prisons. Next year’s budget for justice gives rise to optimism — optimism over the fact that the police are going to be even more effective in the fight against crime, that organised crime can be combated and remedied, that people should be helped when they are subjected to the theft, burglary and other everyday crime, that the courts are going to get more speed in dealing with the cases, and that the settlement queues are going to continue to decline.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e268	I think it is very nice that such a large majority in the Judicial Committee, all the parties except the Advancement Party, agree that there is a connection between the violence and the crime of violence. I am also very happy that we can register a line break in the Right – a line break like, among other things. that the party now wants to maintain a restrictive alcohol policy and that it is believed that the most effective means of alcohol policy are those that reduce availability and increase prices. I would also like to give the Government the honour that it has now taken the initiative to set up a common European level of charges. I think it is absolutely right to have the opportunity to tackle alcohol problems in the future, not least alcohol-related violence problems, to be able to maintain a high level of taxation in Norway, but also to cooperate at European level. My challenge and my question to the representative of Greece is: Do the Right have even more cards in the sleeve to combat the criminality?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e277	I am pleased with the praise given to the Government by the Workers' Party's Justice Spokesman, and in this context especially the Right. It's probably not a line break from our side. The comment to which the representative Gjul refers has been made in the last three budgetary positions of the Justice Committee, so this is a consistent and long-term policy that the Government, and the Right, are behind. It's quite obvious that there's a connection between drugs and violence. It's just to take a trip out to the Oslo Centre or another center a Saturday night just before Christmas, so one sees that this has a connection. I think it is important to continue the prevention work in the drug field. It is important that we have treatment facilities, and it is important that we can help those who are really struggling with drug problems. But the main thing here is that the police must have the opportunity to fight this crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e284	The right-hand side says that the party is very busy with the school. According to the Fafo report on living conditions, prisoners have about the opposite educational pattern of what the rest of the population has. Reading and writing difficulties are common, and many are likely to experience very poor school experience. Within the walls, however, most prisoners often thrive at school, for example. because they are met with a different understanding and receive closer follow-up than they received in the normal school. I suppose Trond Helleland agrees with me that today it is difficult to get work without education, at least a lasting job. On the basis of this, I ask, what comes of the fact that the party of the government of Greece, for the second year in a row, leaves the school budgets in prisons inadequate, with at least 25 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Don't think Right that a deficit of at least 25 million. Will prison education be affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e293	It is significant that the only SV is able to find out about the budget for justice is what is actually under the Ministry of Education's budget. The education related to prisons is located there, so I think in a way the criticism is addressed to the wrong addressee. But when that's said, I think the opportunity you have to teach prison is good. There are many people with short sentences who are not covered by this offer, and therefore I don't think it's such a huge problem the representative Thorkildsen is addressing. On the other hand, what is a problem and is a challenge is what emerges from this Fafo report that the Government has taken the initiative and that shows that the so-called prisoner population has a wide range of problems, they are overrepresented in a wide range of problem categories. It's a real challenge that the government will address and work on, to look at how to get an adapted setup for the individual prisoner. This is in line with the policy of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e300	I think it is rather arrogant of the representative of Greece, who is the head of this committee, to deal with this issue in such a way. I assume that Trond Helleland agrees with his own government that it is an important purpose to achieve good administrative cooperation. In this way, the representative of Greece should also set a good example and influence the representatives of the Right in the Education Committee. I believe that, as justice politicians, we have a clear responsibility for what our people in the other committees do in terms of criminal law. If the representative of Helleland doesn't mean it, do I think he won't take responsibility? Then I also believe that he has not checked this report properly, because the conclusion given there is very serious. It shows that prisoners in Norwegian prisons have a very low level of education, and it is clear that this means a great deal for what opportunities they have to cope with afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e307	There is now a record investment in all sectors of the justice sector, including criminal justice. I see quite clearly the representative of Thorkildsen's great commitment in this regard, but accusing the committee leader of being arrogant, because he points out that exactly what goes on in prison education, in fact, is another department, I seem to be going a little far. We're working to get the best possible criminal care. We have nothing to be ashamed of, on the contrary. We've expanded the number of settlements. We have taken the initiative in a Fafo report – which I have studied carefully – that shows and reveals major problems among prisoners: drug use, mental health problems, unemployment, lack of education, dyslexia, orphanage background, etc. There are a wide range of challenges that both this Committee on Justice and future Committees on Justice will face, and we will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e312	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e316	The justice sector has received more money through the budgetary procedure in Stortinget than the government had proposed. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget for 2005, we have given a quarter of a billion more to combat crime than the government's budget. Through our proposal, we have tried to correct the lack of bet in court and prison under which the Government's proposal went. At the same time, the Labour Party believes that there is now a need for extra money for the local police and for action to enable the police to achieve the objectives of the police reform. Over the past year, we have received many alarming reports that police reform is not working as intended. In particular, the problems faced by the County Police Offices and the police stations have been highlighted. Numerous local surveys describe a reform that does not work, and there have been no more policemen in active service. In rural areas, it is claimed that the rule of law is largely absent from normal working hours and that there must be a serious risk of life in the event of a call-out of blue light. A review in the newspaper Hitra-Frøya on the situation at the Fröya Länsmannskontoret on 30 November provides concrete evidence of this. Unoccupied jobs mean that the municipality has lost 25 pst. by its operational police force and 30 pst. of the investigative capacity and has been reduced by the watch regime. In addition, it may be added that this Länsmannskontoret has been presented with a much more difficult and serious situation until next year with halving the operational budget, which is not special for Frøya, for all the units in the South-Trundelag police district. The Labour Party takes the situation in the police seriously. We believe it is wrong to say that this is only due to the police reform. This problem is a combination of structure and tight budgets. In order to maintain good policing and to ensure good staffing both during the evening and during the weekend, the individual Länsmannskontoret and the individual police station need more money for operations and unoccupied positions. It is important for the trust in the police and the quality of life and security of people that the police have money and people to be able to move out in burglaries and fighting. The Labour Party believes it is our duty to say from and ensure that the security of ordinary people is not weakened. We also believe that the police reform was a necessary and proper reform, but it needs both adjustments and additional lubrication in order to be realized. The Labour Party requires clear priorities and actions from the Minister of Justice to get the reform on the rails and to provide for a continued decentralised police force with good staff. The courts get more money next year. To give the courts $25 million. kr more than what the Government has proposed, provides an opportunity to commence the liquidation of the courts. Despite excessive productivity in courts, the number of untreated cases has remained stable in recent years. In addition to several judges, there is a need to amend the procedure. The Labour Party therefore proposed in our actions to move forward in the criminal proceedings, including: the more active use of evidence interception rules, the greater degree of writing and the requirement for the actors in the criminal proceedings chain to attend. We are pleased that this is now being supported and actively followed up by the Minister of Justice. Prison and criminal justice have, as many times before, become the losers in the budget. The imbalance in the criminal justice chain is exacerbated when the police and the courts get more money without even paying attention to prison and criminal justice. We have not done our job when only the police get extra money. More policemen lead to more attacks and more cases being investigated. When this is not combined with more money for prisons, the queues will grow again. If the one-sided bet continues, we will continue to experience that the offenders of violence and rape will be freed in waiting for a vacancy. In the budget agreement last year, the Workers' Party received a call for more money for the criminal service. We are now seeing a decline in the queues, but it is far from enough to be able to break the queues. We are missing a concrete plan for the closure of the cows. We are also disappointed that there will now be a majority in this Chamber to reintroduce excesses of free legal aid. This is a backward step in relation to the system we were introduced two years ago. In particular, we are disappointed that the Progress Party, which was one of the proposers two years ago, has now found no room to avoid excesses of free legal aid. We are afraid that it is those who have the least, who again lose on the scheme, those who do not have the opportunity to claim their rights through the free legal aid system. The Labour Party wants a comprehensive fight against crime. It is then necessary to focus on both prevention, good neighbourhood police, rapid response and consensus against offenders, and to ensure that prisons and criminal services are also upgraded. I am addressing the proposals where the Labour Party is the proposer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e346	The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e351	I'll give the previous speaker the "ros" that she has the gift of frenzy. I have rarely heard one of those degrees of disclaimer about the situation for the current year. So here we're dealing with closeness to police, people's ability to get help, and lack of help. The fact is that this year's budgetary responsibility for the Workers' Party is with the government parties. Or has the Labour Party forgotten that they have actually negotiated with the police themselves? Then, with all possible respect, it becomes a little strange to stand here and suck – I don't know if it's a parliamentary expression, but I'm taking the chance to use it. It's a total disclaimer of reality. Here, the Workers' Party has to stand upright and take responsibility for what you have done, not to be totally ignorant of what you are trying to do. I assume that the judicial spokesperson in the Labour Party actually acknowledges that they have a budgetary responsibility for this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e358	The Labour Party has pointed out in the case of the police, a situation description by the police that has not least appeared during the year. We have registered by looking up in local media, by visiting LEN's offices and at police stations that they are struggling more and more. What they're saying is that it's especially in the last two years that their situation has become difficult. This situation takes the Labour Party seriously. We take it seriously and say that we have to fix it. We need to ensure that more money is provided for 2005, not least by the local police department, the single county police station and the individual police station, so that they are able to carry out the important tasks and the job they have to ensure people’s safety in the community. The entire Workers' Party's proposal for an alternative budget is that we propose more money to the local police. It's a signal to District Norway that we want to maintain a decentralised police force, that we have a good police force with good staff throughout the country, but it's also a signal to other political parties that we are taking this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e367	I have to say that it is almost comical to listen to the representative Gjul when she stands and boasts of the Workers' Party's involvement in the police. 50 million. What is it? Have they figured out how many dollars each of them gets with the 50 million from the Workers' Party? In our budget, we got 250 million. To the police. On the same day, the representative Gjul goes out and demands a crisis package to the South Trondelag police district, and then she herself and the Workers' Party have only given a few crowns. It is not useful to raise money for people who are unable to manage their money. What does the representative, Gjul, think we should do to get the individual police districts to get more out of their money? What does Gjul do so that local police officers can get a better police force in their districts with the budgets they have? I am a little startled at how the Workers' Party and Gjul have behaved in the process here. It's been a populist fool game from end to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e376	Representatives shall be very careful to characterise the proposals of other representatives in an improper manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e379	I note that there must be an internal conflict between the chairperson of the Judicial Committee, Greece, and the representative of Hofstad, of the chair of the Judicial Committee, after all, boasted of the Government's original draft budget for the police. He boasted that the police have received 250 million. kr extra compared to what you had received the previous year. So I can't believe that the representative of Hofstad can stand up to the fact that the Workers' Party then also proposes extra to the local police and not least proposes a further half a billion to combat crime. You have to see the whole thing here. You can't just look at the police. When it comes to combating crime, there is also a need to ensure that the courts get more, and that prison and criminal justice also get more. It's not just useful to produce more criminal cases, if you don't make sure that those who are under arrest must also zone. It cannot be the case in Norway that prison places are not available when offenders are present.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e384	SV will have a full review of the free legal aid system, and we will propose that the whole model be assessed. The Finnish model, on which Jussbuss has investigated and transmitted input to the Jussbuss Jussbuss Committee, wishes to be assessed. There, about three-quarters of the population are included in the scheme, net income and not gross income, and all types of cases are included. My question to the representative Gjul is: Is the Workers' Party open to assess the Finnish scheme, and will the Workers' Party, in any government cooperation, also stand on the principles on which the Workers' Party has based its observations in the budget, so that we are sure that the Workers' Party will not run away from its promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e393	There is one thing that the representative Thorkildsen and SV can feel safe, and that is that the Workers' Party will not run away from its promises, nor what we do. The Labour Party has always insisted that we remove the excesses of free legal aid, and we also follow it up in this budget by spending money so that we get rid of the excesses again. So this is what we're on. In addition, SV, together with the majority, has proposed that we look at the Finnish model. The working party is open to all models and schemes that make the free legal aid system better than it is today. We believe that the scheme is too narrow, both in terms of income losses and in relation to matters. We consider this free legal aid as an important part of the fight against poverty. We will be involved and contribute to improving the free legal aid system, and we fully support this proposal, both today and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e400	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e403	This day, when the Justice Committee has its budgetary procedure, is constantly interesting. It's interesting in terms of what the different groupings focus on. It's interesting about what we focus on, and what kind of approach we have to the justice sector. Initially, for my part, I intend to say a little bit about what I see as a major challenge today, and that is just what kind of approach the political parties and the Storing as institutions have to the justice sector. Unfortunately, I have come to realize that I feel that we see the justice sector as a cost item. We have thus come into a situation where we save and implement actions that we have strictly not wanted to take on the basis of legal certainty for individuals, but also on the basis of the leadership we want, for example. The police must have. If we look at the police law, Sections 1, 2 and 3, which are the general governing objectives of the police, they are quite clear on what to do. At the same time, then, the result is no better than the appropriations we are able to obtain through the negotiations that are taking place here. I think we should be concerned about that, because it is, at my discretion, so now that the justice sector is sometimes a balancing point, and not what it really should be, namely one of the main elements of a democracy like ours and another main element of the rule of law. If you don't have full confidence in the justice sector, we have a challenge. So it's one of our absolute foundations. To use the words of Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum from Tuesday's debate, where he used the words 'intelligence, intelligence, intelligence', I can easily rewrite it in my way: it is trust, trust, trust that is the foundation of the justice sector. Without that, I think we'll discover that the distance between what's happening in here, and what people out there perceive as reasonable and correct, is getting bigger and bigger. None of us have earned it, because it will only lead to a lack of confidence in us who conduct politics. So, about the Progress Party's alternative state budget. For us, it is always an objective to have a comprehensive fight against crime. We have made a lot of proposals on what we have had more than one debate here, and that is a pretty big gap in what we think makes sense, and it makes sense to some of the other parties. But that's okay enough, that's the policy way of being functional, and that's a good thing. As long as you take into account inequalities and are open and tidy in the approach to each other, we may well disagree on the matter. So we have found it necessary in our alternative state budget to strengthen the police with approx. 430 million. SEK, the care of criminals of 160 million. UKL 40 million and the courts. kr. Of course, we removed the proportion of free legal aid, and we reduced the income of the state in relation to the legal fee. It must be worrying now, when we see that there is actually a large profit on the revenue from the legal fee. So we spent $1.1 billion on our alternative justice budget for next year. The reason is simply that the challenges are in line. In order to follow up on what the representative Gjul was in place, the current year has been a lot, a lot of lookouts about far-off states in this country. None of us who sit on the Justice Committee or in the United Kingdom have been comfortable with what has happened. On the contrary. When the police stand up and say: we have to sell boats, we sell equipment, we can't move out – so the threshold to help the audience gets higher and higher – then the warning light will go on with some of us. We can't and we're not going to have it like that. When police director Killangereen says we're not being irresponsible, but we're at the limit, then one of Norway's most loyal officials has been very, very clear in his message outside. So let's think about that. Then, of course, you can ask, is that a problem? Some time back, there was an article about Norway's Bank that showed that they actually lacked half their cash stock. I think it was 27 billion kroner that were balanced. Then we have two possibilities: either there are people who are pretty steep in their necks in relation to the head cushion, or it's like those who commit crime here in the country have a lot of access to capital. Maybe it's tempting to use a quote from Woody Allen. He has said very well, he has among other things. I think crime pays off, it's nice working hours and many travel days. Someone might say that there should well know the Storting. But I'll let that lie. Why is the focus of the Progress Party on combating crime so important? Yeah, it's about security. The uncertainty that the public out there feels, we want to fight it at all costs. We want to fight the violence that's going on out there. We see that the police will succeed in doing so, we need to strengthen investment, among other things. on the equipment side. There is a continuous need for a lift. We agree with the Courts that there will be a need for a faster procedure. We need more settlements, and not least we should strengthen the volunteer organisations that assist there. The rescue service is another area where we have many challenges and a lot to tackle. The same thing applies to removing excesses, which we were dealing with instead. Over to the budget agreement: I guess I won't underestimate anything when I say we're happy with the result we're left with. I will first be allowed to boast of the way the process was going on. I think there's been a great ceiling height, there's been openness around possibilities and impossibility within what the different parties wanted. But everything has happened in a neat and exemplary way. I've really appreciated that, I think it's been to those degrees very, very good, and everyone who's been there should have the honor, at my discretion. At the same time, it is clear that we are left with the feeling that there was a clear improvement after we had a hand on the steering wheel. The tone was excellent, Mr. Marthinsen. It was, as I said, a good, constructive cooperation, and it was a pretty clear focus on where we wanted to end up. It's also important. Politics is about wanting things and doing things, and we did that through the budgetary conciliation. We further increased the bet on the police. We increased the bets on the courts, the criminal services, the Police College, the National Attorney, the Rescue Service, and the victim and family care. We gave grants to the Stine Sofies Foundation, the family tax project in Westfold was included, we've looked at what goes on after use of police officers – if I can use such an expression – and we're going to deal with grey zone problems. As a summary of the last points, I want to focus on another thing, and that's the Victim Compensation Act. It's like we sometimes in this country have statements about things that I don't think any of us really want to see there, because they show that we have a system that doesn't work well enough. Therefore, it is important that we now gather to develop a care for victims and relatives. I must say that I get quite upset when I get a phone call from a parent who has lost his son or daughter in a criminal act, and he tells me about the fight that must be waged against the public. Then I get pretty tired, and I get disappointed, because what I trust, it doesn't work for the individual. It's in a ghastly light when we see the Prime Minister standing up and saying that Norway is once again named the world's best country to live in. We might be on average, but, with all sorts of respect, there's someone who hits a side of shadow that they really shouldn't have hit. A key element and the challenge facing it is to develop good care for victims and relatives. We have said that it is clear that the Stine Sofie Foundation can make good contributions. They've got good people, and they're working hard. They have intervened with the Storting before, and are clear in their message of what they believe The Storting should address. So these are people who build their perceptions on experience, on those degrees of dearly purchased experience – I count on and hope that others will never come up with a similar situation. We need a great deal of respect for it. At the same time, we have an obligation to assist, to do the everyday life of people who have been exposed to such things, better and easier, if that is possible. The same is true of family violence. It's probably the worst form of violence you can imagine, when violence happens within the four walls of your home. It's taboo, it might be hard to handle, and it's thresholds. What does that mean for families and cohabitation? There are also attitudes among those in public who are going to enter and do a job in different contexts, be it police or others. Are we good enough? I think the answer is simply no. That is why the Progress Party and the government parties have now granted 2 million. NOK to a project in Westfold, under the direction of the police, where the focus will be on this. So the experience from the different actors who play along with us is that we're going to be able to do our job even better. That's the most important thing here: others' experiences are supposed to help us. We have a lot of things to deal with, but we're going to do that. Back to the police: I am not in doubt that with the background of what has happened this year, there has been a need for a substantial lifting. There have been exceptional states this year, at my discretion. And there's always a discussion that goes on that strengthening the police leads to more cases, more people get convicted, more people get caught, and we get new problems. But you can turn it around and say, OK, if we put the police down now, we might also remove the other problems, but we won't remove the problems of those who are exposed to crime. So I'm pretty skeptical, and I want to strongly warn against such an approach. It's ostrich policy, at my discretion. You can define yourself away from anything, but reality is still unpleasant. Our objectives must be to have more visible police, because it seems preventive, and the police must have a local presence. Another main challenge, I think, is that we need to make investments in the sector that make the daily lives of the police simpler, better and more efficient. We can do that through ICT solutions, we can have more civil servants, and we should strengthen some of the special functions you have – one of them is the dog service, which we believe should be strengthened within the public service. At the same time, it is important to focus on non-discrimination in criminal matters, customs and the police, for that matter. It will also be taken care of. The Oslo Police are promoted by some here as a budget winner. At the same time, the Oslo Police clearly have special challenges. As a cornerstone enterprise — to use such a concept — they have the significance of heavy crime, and they have some special functions. That is why they are also a separate chapter on the State budget. I hope that the bet that is being made now leads to, among other things, strengthen the EDD and bodyguard/shortness special sections. Those who work there have some tough everyday lives, and they work a lot, I have the impression. If we can now join and take responsibility through a vow, we will serve on it, not least for the sake of those they will assist, and for the sake of our face outwards as a responsible nation. In the case of the police helicopter, at least some of us are very concerned that it has to be located near the center. So to criminal care, despite the fact that some people have criticized us for not prioritizing, we have found room for a reinforcement. Of course, it's too bad, and it might never be good enough, but we got a boost despite the fact that it wasn't a priority at first. I'm very pleased with that. And the strengthening of custody facilities in central Eastern Europe will address where the main problems are. So from our side it's been one to the degrees conscious action. We also got room for a security package. Of course, it could have been bigger. But we've taken up a lot of things that other parties have accused us of not getting hold of. Of course, I also use the chance to mention that we have strengthened the Foundation's Life After Atonement. We in the Progress Party are accused of thinking quite black and white: Get hold of the criminals, lock them in and throw the key. I think if you look at what we're getting here, it's a pretty big width of a lot of things. And I'm very proud to be able to join in increasing the donation to the Life After Atonement Foundation. The progress party was the party that received the first promise, during the treatment of the revised national budget in 2002, if I do not remember errors. Now we give them a new rise. The Courts of Justice need an appeal. They will get it through the budget agreement. Bergen and Oslo have the main challenges, and the reinforcement should come there. At the same time, we need to focus our attention on the organisation of disabled people. We also have another challenge that I think we should be very conscious, and that is the safety of the employees and those who are in Norwegian courts. We see that everyday crime in some environments is fairly tough, we see that threats can increase, and that is why we believe that we also need to focus on the safety of employees and those who live in Norwegian courts. There's something we can't afford not to focus on. The rescue service is also one of the heart children of the Advance Party. There was a big rescue last night. I take the chance to mention that it was actually a private company that picked up those that were in the sea. Although some of the representatives in this room said during a case on the rescue helicopter service on 16 May 2002 that they would not be rescued by a private company because they had to take the Visa card with them, it is a fact that those who were rescued yesterday were rescued by a private company. What the public did was to pick up the two who were dead and lay in the sea. It must be a bad alternative, even for the Workers' Party, at my discretion. But I'm recording that the Workers' Party is saying one thing and doing a completely different thing. But it's not a surprise, it's something you get used to. I refer to our proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e466	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e471	If there really is a party that says one thing and does something else, it must be the Progress Party. The party of progress shows that they have a strong social conscience and that they are the defender of the little man. But we agreed two years ago that bringing cases to justice costs a fortune, and that we have a major unmet legal need. We also know that those who have the greatest need for social benefits are those who know their rights at least. Then we come back to the question of fractions of free legal aid, which we know is a barrier so you can do something to get your right. We agreed on that a little over two years ago. But now we see that the Advance Party joins with the government parties and reintroduces the excesses of free legal aid, and it looks like they're comfortable with it. I am quite disappointed that the Progress Party does not realise that this is an important part of the fight against poverty. The reintroduction of excesses of free legal aid places a barrier on those who have the least, in terms of their ability to avail themselves of the free legal aid system. I would like to ask the Progress Party: do they feel comfortable with the company they are now in?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e480	That was a good line. Had this not been part of the budget agreement, I would ask for exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e485	First, I want to praise the Progress Party for the agreement that they managed to get into port, because there is a lot of good, and a lot that SV supports, among other things. in relation to victim and dependant care, Barnas Hus, violence treatment measures and support to the Stine Sofies Foundation and the Foundation Life After Soning – and in fact much more. But the Progress Party is in favour of a dramatic cut in the alcohol charges, and this is important to us. At the same time, the Progress Party claims to be the party that takes crime most seriously, and we do not believe that it is. In Finland, the fee was reduced by 40 pst. In the spring, according to the Institute for Alcohol Research STAKES and the Finnish Police, the results are as follows: 20 pst. Increase in alcohol consumption by approx. The number of alcohol-related deaths per year is 600. year 25 p.m. increase in full-time running 20 pst. increase in the number of rapes 20 pst. increase in alcohol-related violence 35 p.p. Increase in the incidence of drug use in Helsinki I ask, does the Advancement Party agree that people drink more if prices are lowered? And: Will the Progress Party nevertheless be in favour of a policy that, after all the sunmarks, will contribute to increased crime, more ruined lives and more deaths?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e515	The President must gradually become familiar with the fact that young representatives follow a number of new words and expressions, such as the fact that policies ‘do not go hand in hand’, etc. We might just get used to it being part of our everyday life too.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e518	Can I be perceived as young now?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e523	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e526	Thanks, then I can go on. I thank you for the challenge and the praise from SV. I think the main problem in relation to drugs is not drug use, but abuse. It's probably like you can do a lot of things, but it's the abuse that's dangerous. Even for the Judicial Committee when it's out moving, or meeting, it's like drinking alcohol without leading to any particular negative reaction for that reason — as long as it's all done with moderation. It's the abuse that's dangerous. So I'm assuming that the answer is, it depends on how the individual relates to what you're using, no matter what.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e537	I assume that for the Progress Party – behind all the humor and behind all the formulations – it is important that what we now adopt in the Stortinget should actually have an effect on the fight against crime. So it's like we're facing the fact that last year we reportedly reported a lot of criminal reactions in Norway, over 200,000. At the same time, we know that we have criminal services that help those who come out of prison to commit new crimes – over 50 p.m. of them commit new crimes. So the solution of this is not to have a single penny for increased operation, when you have the opportunity to negotiate increased operating resources to the justice sector – not one penny to do something about the problem of recurrence. Does the Progress Party see the challenge in terms of criminal justice and the prevention of that increase, and to the extent that the scale of repeaters we are now seeing?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e546	Of course I see the challenge. The representative of Storberget addresses something important. At the same time, I dare to draw his attention to the fact that for the current year there is therefore a budgetary settlement between the government parties and the Workers' Party that has led to a strengthening of 10 million. NOK, if I do not remember correctly. And even though we haven't prioritised it, we're three times as good as the Workers' Party when it comes to next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e553	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e557	SV's main priority in the judicial budget is, this year as last year and in the past, criminal justice. The reason, this year as last year and in the previous year, is that criminal justice is the second most weak link in the criminal justice chain. SV believes that this government has led a scandalous policy for criminal justice. We fear that the result of step-by-step cells — well-called ‘high-level coatings’ — duplications, temporary spaces and fewer staff to look after and work with prisoners will provide more swinging door prisoners, poorer security, higher sick leave and more use of punishment as a method of discipline within prisons. In addition, as we know, almost 2,000 convicted people are in line, causing the punishment to lose much of its effect. That many who have gone out and waited for months and years, are put in a closed ward, is not always as good to understand. Employees at the Ring Kingdom prison can tell about convictions that even meet to atoning, young people and first-time sons, who obviously won't come out on the other side with better odds than they had when they came. When I visited Ringerijk Prison earlier this year, one of the prisoners there – he can well be characterized as more or less professional and rather cynical, I would say – how he was placed at Ullersmo at the first time, along with far more hard-core criminals than he had been. When he was released again, he had a thick address book and many new plans, but no future plan. So now he was sitting on Ringerijk, but he thought that a lot could have been done differently to get him on a narrower path. Those who robbed NOKAS in Stavanger and killed a highly esteemed policeman, probably started with much less serious crime. The big disadvantage of prisons is that they act as network builders between people we prefer not to link closely, as well as that a criminal culture gets further nourishment. Why don't we discuss what alternatives we have more often? Why is the answer almost automatically ‘closed places’, without us having considered whether this is what most of the prisoners actually need to break with a criminal lifestyle? That's the goal, right? Fafo's report, Levek year among prisoners, by Friesstad and Forest Hansen, was published earlier this year and provides us with valuable information both on how society can prevent crime far more effectively than we do today, and on how we are going to manage to reintegrate the insiders. The Fafo report shows that prison inmates in Norwegian prisons are characterised by a variety of serious problems, such as problems in growth, lack of education, drug and health problems, unemployment and poverty. The main conclusion of the report is that the living conditions of prisoners are particularly difficult because they are characterised by accumulation of living conditions problems; three quarters have problems in two or more living conditions. The accumulation of living conditions problems is linked to the growing-up ratio of prisoners: the more growing-up problems, the more difficult living conditions as adults. Successful reintegration into society cannot be ensured by individual measures but must be based on an overall understanding of the extent of marginalisation in this group. This is what the authors say. SV believes that there is a lack of principle thinking in criminal policy. We have long called for a plan of how many prison places there will be a decade's need, and not least what kind of place this should be, so that we can take a proper discussion about the content of the sentence. We are calling for a staffing plan in criminal care and in the field of health care, among other things. because we see that there is a shortage of employees. SV is concerned that the one-sided discussion of the settlement queues and the subsequent pressure to take in as much as possible to settlement shifts focus away from the question of the content of the punishment. For what does the prison sentence help, when fewer are followed up while they are in prison? What do prison sentences help when they are cut into school and library facilities at the same time? We know that reading and writing problems are widespread, and that the pattern of education among prisoners is about the opposite of what characterizes the population. What helps drug addicts to find that the answer to their addiction is mainly more urine samples and more drug dogs, without being offered any help? It helps society in the period they are ‘out of circulation’, as it is called, if you want to make this less a question about people, but it does not help much if it is a goal that crime should not repeat itself and perhaps even get rougher. SV is concerned with the number of persons who receive the penalty under Section 12 of the Penal Code. And look, we see that the number of prisoners who received this type of institutional soning was 430 in 1996, while only 233 men and 13 women were zoned in this way in 2003 – a decrease. The level of ambition for the current year is also not much to boast about, in fact, the target is less paydays in institutions this year than it was in total last year. In view of the knowledge we now have, that at least six out of ten prisoners have serious drug problems, it is incomprehensible that no more is done for this group. I have read an application from the Crime Centre region to establish a day-care centre and an outpatient clinic for prisoners with drug addiction. I really hope that the proposal is seriously assessed. The application states that in the region of the east, where you are so privileged that you have 20 additional treatment sites as a result of Stifinner, about 12 pst is reached. by the addicted prisoners of a rehabilitation and treatment provision under the control of the criminal justice system. And then Russprogram, which can't be called a treatment offer, is included in the number. The region concludes: ‘In total, only a fraction of our prisoners can be offered adequate treatment.’ SV believes that reality should look the opposite: all drug-dependent prisoners should be offered treatment from the first day. These people are actually served on a silver barrel. Imagine if the treatment device had served its offer on the same silver barrel! Instead, we let the chance go away. I know that there might be a drug court, which we have not yet discussed in SV. Personally, I'm positive, but skeptical, because I'm afraid that there won't be enough money, and that we'll end up with a system that makes everyone disappointed. We need to get an offer that is tailored to individual needs, where the poster protection is in place, and where you do not push away those who are currently on a voluntary basis to be put in a queue. In addition, SV will expand Stiffinder, because this is a very good offer. I hospitated there this summer, and it was absolutely amazing to see them as zones facing each other, encouraging each other and supporting each other. What was called silence in the ordinary institution and out in society is here called comrade support. Here the employees are close to them all the time, they know everyone who lives there. Before and after leaves there are collections, discussions and confrontations. And it's bone tough to sit there. Russing on perm doesn't automatically mean that you're thrown out, but the motivation is gone, or people don't want to give up, you have to get out. SV has great faith in such a scheme, because it is about adult training, accountability and networking. But it's also about being seen, trying their abilities and getting trust. In addition, it is a matter of cooperation between criminal and drug services. Last but not least, they are role models, because no one is released without an offer and waiting for them outside the walls. SV prioritizes this year, as last year and in the past, the development of a worthy care for victims and relatives. No one would ever think of starting a project or dropping a sample to assess whether a person would be helped to fix a broken leg or a defective lung. Victims of violence and sexual abuse, on the other hand, need to find that measures that could help them are not available at their place of residence, for example. the reception of rapes, the victim counselling centre, that the measure is temporary, such as: Alternatives to Violence, or that they are threatened with closure and closure, such as: incest and crisis centres. They often have to figure out for themselves what rights they have, and they often feel that they have to fight to get them. SV wants the Women's Violence Committee to be fully followed up and the Victim Compensation Act to be amended. We are proposing money to set up a 24-hour emergency phone, free emergency phone, several crime victims advisory offices, designation of resources for family violence coordinators, investment in interrogation equipment, and grants to crisis and incest centers, just to mention something. In addition, we are proposing increased resources to volunteer organisations working with victims of crime, and we have proposed the creation of Barna's House and crisis centres for children. I'd like to say a little bit about the police eventually. The race of NOKAS in Stavanger ended in a tragic killing of a well-respected policeman and was followed by several episodes involving long-seagoing criminals and established networks, probably with biases out of Norway. A very interesting report was prepared after this meeting, with several recommendations, including the speeding up of work on a new national intelligence system and the prioritisation of two to three criminal networks to be combated. One of these should be the organized rans environment. In addition, several recommendations were made on the device side and on a safe connection. SV is concerned that organised environments should be fragmented and not be subject to footholds in Norway. We believe it is important to follow the recommendations of the working group. We want prisons to be able to take their responsibility, and we are committed to confiscating funds acquired through crime. Access to the reverse burden of proof is important here. There is no doubt that the withdrawal of this kind of professional criminal is more than a few years behind the walls. Another example of professional crime I want to highlight is that of women in particular. Trafficking, or trafficking in women and children for prostitution purposes, is a serious violation of fundamental human rights, and Norway has a great responsibility as a recipient country and as a country with residents who both make money on the fate of these people and take advantage of them sexually. We believe this responsibility in SV that Norway should have taken far more seriously than we actually do. Firstly, we believe that it is unsustainable that immigration policy considerations are clearly placed in the driver's seat, which has led to the police having imprisoned and expelled women that we should actually have taken care of. We think it's extra grotesque when we get examples of things where women have been given prison sentences because they had fake papers, while the backers go free. SV believes that this is evidence that Norway is more concerned with sending an alert signal to illegal immigrants than with caring for women’s rights and protection needs. The offer of a reflection period has obviously not appealed, and it may be time to ask why. SV believes that these women should be offered temporary residence without any conditions, so that safety can be provided right from the start. This has been recommended by the OSCE. It is serious that the opinion of these women remains is that the police in Norway will not help them, on the contrary. We believe that, in addition, a prostitution and inhospitable group, similar to the Oslo police, must be set up until 1991. This group did a very important job and gained confidence among the actors in the prostitution environment, which it is unrealistic to believe that once responsibility in the police is spread, it is achieved. It is also very concerned that Norway must become tougher with men who use violence against women, so-called family violence, and that funds for family violence coordinators must be earmarked until this has become an established system. We believe that racist crime and white-collar crime must be seriously combated. Today, too many people use their power position, whether gender-based, class-based or ethnic, without having consequences. We will work to change this, and we will continue to propose measures that will remedy this. We want a police force that cooperates closely with others who work with children and young people locally, such as the police. Stoves and Manglerud police stations do. We want municipalities to have a duty to think about crime prevention when carrying out land-use planning and that far more municipalities are associated with SLT – Coordination of Local Crime Prevention measures. We want a police force that continues to develop and implement the problem-oriented police work method, a police force that is used more actively as adviser to local authorities. SV believes that good prevention must be the starting point for all criminal policies. Then it's important to know what it is that creates crime. There is no clear answer to this, but the Fafo report provides at least many important indications, and SV has good policies to meet these challenges. We fear that cutting down on the municipal economy, the problems of caregiving, long queues in psychiatry, bigger class differences, cutting school cuts and tougher demands for success in society will make Norway more brutal. Children and young people experience this in many places today. A good starting point could have been to bet on a school that primarily has the task of finding the resources of each child, rather than looking for faults and shortcomings. We're always talking away about problem children and problem youth. But how often do we ask if there's something wrong with society around? I believe that much of the problem is due to a legitimate rebellion against structures that do not meet the needs of young people, problems at home that no one has asked about, or that their abilities are not appreciated and seen. I exit there and bring up the SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e608	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e613	The Labour Party agrees with the Socialist Left on the issue of criminal justice challenges. We are also pleased that, insofar as all parties in the Committee on Legal Affairs have expressed the need to focus on alternative reactions. On the other hand, we have noticed that SV in its comment on ‘drug court’ sets a number of conditions that we are on the way to, but there is one condition that I want to ask specifically, and that is voluntary, that it should be voluntary. What's in this? Isn't it true that it would actually be better for someone with drug problems to be taken into the rehabilitation apparatus against his will than against his will to be locked into some cell in Oslo prison?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e620	If it had been as simple as the representative of Storberget here produced it, the answer would of course have been yes. Personally, I think coercion can work to a certain extent, at least in a start-up phase. But to make others change against their will, it is among other things. many women who have painful experience do not work either in a relationship. It is difficult to start a treatment for people who are totally unwilling. What we're afraid of is that the people get hopes for the drug court that can't be satisfied, simply because you get bad results. That's the one. The second is that there is a risk of getting a lot of people who are not willing and who are thus destroying the others, who are there because they are motivated. We think we have to start the motivation in a different way, for example. by making use of §12 soning to a much greater extent. This means that you first go to prison, and then you have to have an offer to get the sentence done in an institution. We think everyone should get that offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e629	The representative of Thorkildsen is allowed to try, but it's going to be wrong. The government has been giving priority to criminal services for three years. That's 33 pst. increase in the budgets. There are 350 new prisons, and there's a dramatic increase in the levels of social punishment. When Socialist Left Party prioritizes 72 million. I have to say that, in principle, there is little consistency when SV with these 72 million. does not give priority to psychiatry in particular, or to drug abuse. The Socialist Left Party does, is to be concerned about giving money to the Stiffinder, the last job of the summer. You're occupied with housing outside of prison. People are concerned with crews and security measures, especially with heavy criminals, who are good and good. And you're busy giving money to non-governmental organisations as an alternative to violence, NOAS and others. SV accuses others not to do anything, but it is SV that does not prioritize when you have the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e636	I would like to thank you for that question, because then I get the opportunity to explain in more detail what we have prioritised. In our alternative state budget, we prioritised 175 million. extra to the Criminal Service and 20 million. kr more to the courts, in addition to $30 million. more to non-governmental organisations and measures aimed at victims of violence, etc. In our cooperation with the Workers' Party, where we relate to the framework laid by someone other than us, we prioritise 72 million. extra kr to Operational Crime and SEK 66 million. kr more for investment. In addition, if we look at those committees that have fields that touch in the justice sector, we give 25 million priority. extra DKK 5 million for prison instruction. extra DKK to prison library and 10 million. kr extra for the health care system with a focus on psychiatry. So it was probably wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e650	The representative of Thorkildsen pointed out that prison is a place where contacts are made that one does not necessarily find desirable. This is a very relevant point. When one sees organized crime becoming more and more international, it will well, as I understand SV, also be perceived as unfortunate that Norwegian criminals link strong and close contacts with foreign criminals. Is it the case that SV sees this point and, as such, will support criminal foreigners to be expelled immediately after settlement, zones in its own institutions, or, if possible, zones abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e655	That's clearly a point. I know that the government has been working on trying to establish agreements, so that you can get foreign criminals to go out to zone in their home country. What's important to us is not to break the human rights of that human being abroad. It's an important principle in any case, sail if it can be difficult to swallow in any context. What we're also very concerned about is that expulsion decisions have to come as part of the sentence, so that people don't stay in prison and wait for a banishment decision to be made perhaps several years after you've come in to the settlement. It is very stressful for those who are going to work with the individual prisoner. It is burdensome for the prisoner's family, not least. And it's burdensome for the inmate seaman, who doesn't know anything about the future saying. So it's also harder to get a job with a change in relation to that person. But we clearly see the point, yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e664	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e667	Today, the budget for 2005 is a very good one. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have entered into budgetary settlements which ensure the full functioning of the judiciary. The budget shows the important link between the police’s fight against crime, the work of the courts and the role of criminal justice in criminal convictions. We're increasing the police budget by 465 million. kr next year. If you subtract the amount to cover the increase in prices and wages, the police's appropriations will be increased by 331 million. kr in 2005. This gives an active and visible police force. The result is increased security for people in Norway. Increased resources to the police shall not go to salary increases. The aim of the call for funding is to provide more police services. It's e.g. the need for increased efforts to combat organised crime and serious economic crime, against violent crime and drug trafficking, and, in particular, greater emphasis on prevention police work is needed. I expect the country's police officers to loyally follow up on this goal. The police's response to terrorism is strengthened, inter alia, by: through funds for five new explosive dogs at the Oslo Police District. We stimulate more use of problem-oriented police work by spending 0.5 million. kr for a project in the Buskerud police district. Vestfold police district gets 2 million. kr for the implementation of a family violence project. And South Trondelag police district gets $0.5 million. to develop improved cooperation procedures between the police, psychiatry and other facilities. The size now facilitates police work to meet the expectations of society. When the police get better equipped in the fight against crime, the courts also get more cases to deal with. There is a need to reduce the length of proceedings in the courts. It is a fact that punishment is served best hot. The total operational budget of the Courts is therefore increased by 35 million. kr next year. We do not want the courts to become a bottleneck in the criminal chain. The criminal justice budget has increased by 33.9 pst. from 2001 to 2005. This is a very significant increase in the budget. We also need to recognise that there is still a need for more prisons, especially in the East. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have therefore agreed to give priority to the construction of 29 new settlement sites next year. Module building is being established at Inner Eastfold Prison, and police arrest cells at Drammen Prison are being converted into closed prisons. We're also going to grant $5 million. for security measures in prisons. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to stress that we see the need for further permanent capacity expansion in the criminal justice system. I would particularly like to highlight the need to build a new prison in Halden. It is important that this be given priority in future budgets. Justice policy often has a too one-sided focus on the offender. The criminal is to be exposed, convicted and punished, and if we do this, the impression is often that the job is done. But there is also a third party in this picture: the victims and their relatives. These are often given little attention, but in this budget we take that into account. It is also important for the Christian People's Party to stimulate the important work done in the Stine Sofies Foundation to develop a comprehensive and coordinated care for victims and relatives in the justice sector. Therefore, through the agreement with the Progress Party, we have allocated 1 million. kr extra to their work next year. The representative of Thorkildsen tells in the Newspaper on 30 November this year that SV has put forward proposals in the UK to set up a Barnas House – a place where children and their families in crisis can receive a comprehensive assistance and treatment offer. No, SV has proposed a new model of child questioning. It is the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Left and the Advance Party that have agreed in the budget agreement to set up a Barnas House in Norway. This is adopted today at Stortinget. The House of Children shall provide security during questioning, provide follow-up treatment for the child and provide the requested guidance in a difficult situation. SV has put forward proposals for improved child questioning practices – it is slightly different and much less. I could choose to polish in relation to the representative Thorkildsen, but leave it alone. Perhaps the most sensible thing to do is to note that she thinks our proposal and our decision is so good that she will also be solitude in the shine of the decision. Through the establishment of Barna’s House, children’s legal status will be strengthened, while facilitating the treatment of negative experiences. It is a victory for the children in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e698	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e701	Not too long ago, the majority in this Chamber decided to remove the excesses of free legal aid. In a previous reply to Ellingsen he chose not to answer the question from the representative Gjul. I would therefore like to ask the representative, Mr Marthinsen, for us who cannot understand it: why was it so very necessary to reintroduce a proportion of free legal aid, and – when you get an agreement that gives more money in this budget – to manage to get it through the agreement? Can you explain to us who do not understand it, how this is related to the fact that this government says it will help the poorest in Norway? Because that was precisely the poorest removal of the excess was of help. I would like an explanation for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e706	It's clear that the representative Rui prints on some sore point for the Christian People's Party when she points to these things. It's not in the areas we have our greatest desire for income to the state to cover other expenses. But as a prime minister who we know from this house once said, everything is related to everything, also in a budget, and it's in such a context the different posts are put together, and then finally to form the whole that's going to be the result. For the Christian People's Party, it is quite obvious that it is a point, as the representative Rui stressed, to have a policy that takes account of the poorest, and that will help them out of their difficult situation. We'll also try to do that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e711	Marthinsen, as I could understand, was extremely pleased with the outcome of the budget negotiations and the agreement, and I am also pleased that he was able to point out in such a good way what positive measures have been given to him precisely because of the cooperation between the government parties and the Progress Party. I then wonder if it is such that Marthinsen sees that the negotiations and the results achieved with the Progress Party are so positive that he believes that we should continue to bet on the Progress Party as a partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e716	There is no reason to hide that there has been – as the representatives of Ellingsen and Greece have also said earlier today, and I believe that the Minister of Justice, when his time is right to rise, will confirm it – excellent cooperation in the Justice Committee between the parties now mentioned, in order to reach an agreement on this budget. I want to say that in the seven years I've been sitting on the Storting, I think maybe this has been, let's say, the nicest and easiest way to come up with solutions, because you agreed on the things you wanted to bet on, and it was inspiring. For the Christian People's Party, it is always important to be able to cooperate with other parties. We will also aim in the future to ensure that we can talk and cooperate positively with all parties on Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e721	For SV, the important thing is that we actually get an impact for a Barna's House. That's what matters. But I cannot sit still and listen to the fact that the representative Marthinsen at best spreads untruths about what we have proposed. In our proposal, which he obviously cannot have read, it says among other things. concerning the principles which shall underlie the house of a child. It is not only apparent that this should be a new model of questioning, but that a therapeutic and therapeutic offer should also be offered in connection with Barnas Hus. So the question then becomes whether the case rapporteur is too lazy to have read this proposal at all, or whether it is that one spreads falsehoods in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e726	I think I'm still not going to polemise against the representative of Thorkildsen, and leave the latency and possibly other descriptions to the statement's own mother. For the Christian People's Party, for the Right, for the Left and for the Progress Party, it has been important in this debate to talk together about what has been a continuation of what began as a Barne-Kripos. In this context, the proposal to look at a possible pilot project for a Barnas House has been withdrawn. The Minister of Justice has been to Iceland and seen this, and knew what this was, and we've been discussing these things. In the cooperation that took place during the budgetary negotiations, this resulted. I do not intend to add anything else, which could be understood as a polemic statement to the replicator.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e735	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e738	The centre party is not represented in the Judicial Committee, and I will limit myself to commenting on a few points in the budgetary position – a budgetary position which, in the opinion of the Central Party, is otherwise marked by a large number of points of agreement, with the exception that there is a significant distinction between the Committee and the parties in the emphasis on the involvement of the police in criminal matters. In this context, the Central Party will choose to support the majority's proposal for a framework, bearing in mind that we believe that the year's allocation in the area of police activity is too low. There's been too little resources in place, and that means that both the need to correct the level you have this year, and also to invest in it, is great. The central party looks forward to the announced evaluation of police reform at the beginning of next year, which will also be highlighted in the vote. We think it is important that a user survey is carried out to identify what we, as citizens of the community, think about police action. We also think it is important that the views of the citizens are taken seriously when the studies are then to be summarised. The centre party has also noted that the Committee points out in particular that the rapporteurs should be contacted to be consulted. We regard this as a recognition that the debate and criticism of the economic under-financing of police reform in the summer has been justified. The centre party is concerned that the number of service stations in the police case needs to be maintained, and we are pleased that it has now been established by the Government. At the same time, it is important that the places of employment retain both the political competence and the ability to prioritize both the investigational and the prevention work. The Committee states in its opinion that these conditions should not be weakened. We believe that there is reason to stress that the events we have seen in recent years show that it will be necessary to strengthen the police-related work both in the field of research and in order to be able to give priority to the other important aspect of the work, namely prevention. Then the Central Party has also noticed the setting that the Workers' Party and SV use the Justice Budget for a rematch on some adopted changes to the Landfill Act. It sees the Center Party as unyielding and untimely. In particular, we will refer to proposal No. 5, sub-paragraph 3, where these lots propose to amend the newly adopted regulation as regards the concept to be used for the sale of agricultural property. The working party and SV believe that the parties shall be entitled to redemption if the fixation fee is less than 10 pst. of gross income. It is a proposal that will lead to a completely illusory exemption for redemption and would undermine the income base of the agricultural industry. In addition, the proposal is based on the view that operating expenditure forms part of the income of professionals, which we believe is quite remarkable. The Central Party shares many of the views expressed through a broad consensus within the Judicial Committee. I understand that one needs to create a debate in the Chamber today, but apart from the different emphasis one has on criminal matters and the police, I have to say that I think it is positive that the Justice Committee and the parties in the Stortinget agree so widely on a number of aspects described in the budget position. The central party will otherwise vote for the majority vote, as stated. In addition, we shall vote in favour of the proposal No. 3 and 4 and point 4 – and only point 4 – under proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e757	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e760	To the representative of the Central Party, Marit Arnstad, I would like to reiterate that the proposal under consideration in Stortinget today, in relation to the law on the land, is not at all a rematch. The regulation which she claims to have been adopted has just been consulted and has changed to the basis of consultation insofar as the conditions for the treatment of the Storting were concerned. That is why this proposal is being taken up. So I would like to challenge the representative of the Center Party to go into this, so that you can see what is actually the reality. At the same time, I challenge her to look at the proposal that is just about state-owned property and state-run funds, whether there should be more flexibility in terms of redemption, which I think reminding the Central Party called for in the debate on Santa Claus, so that the state itself should not be a driver and destroy for many of the country's farmers. It should be possible for the Central Party to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e768	First I have to be allowed to say that I appreciate getting a line. It is not so often you get it when you step into a debate where you have not taken part in the committee and in the preparation of the vote. The points of the centre party in relation to the Law on Landings, whether adopted or not, are that regulations are drawn up by the Government, they are not dictated by the Storting. There is no basis in the setting adopted in Stortinget for one to adopt some regulation based on the principles of the Workers' Party and SV here. Nor is there any basis, in the opinion of the Centre Party, for the Storting to dictate what is obviously the government's task, namely to give regulations. I think that maybe the Great Mountain in a different context, in a different time, would appreciate having shown some neatness in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e775	Marit Arnstad is going to be further satisfied, for here comes another line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e778	It is very nice to note that a party that is not represented in the Judicial Committee chooses to support the majority position, where increases in police appropriations are prioritised. I find it interesting to note that the centre party so clearly marks the distance from the Workers' Party and SV in this case, and I am also very pleased with the cash rejection by the representative Arnstad of the Workers' Party's game in terms of the Santa Claus Act. I expect that the representative Arnstad will continue the good work of reversing the type of game that the representative Storberget is still putting up in relation to the law on the Santa Claus, and hope that that work will also be continued in the next period, even though the representative Arnstad has then left Stortinget. So I thank you for the support we get, and I'm very happy for it. There is a poor guarantee of future cooperation between the three parties that now want to form a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e785	Yes, to say it this way: The right has done enough damage in the law of the Santa Claus if not the Workers' Party will be allowed to do even more damage! [[Laughter]] It was the Right who submitted a law that allowed redemption, which in principle should have been a big problem for the Right. That the right at all chose to provide the law that opened for redemption was a problem. But when the Right has done so, and got it by a majority in the Stortinget, at least we think it is important that the Workers' Party is not allowed to do even more harm in that matter. In addition, I have to remind you, as regards the fact that we support the majority framework, that the background is that we believe that the current year's budget, which was presented by the government to which Trond Helleland also refers, was far too poor. The agreement that the Government then made with the Workers' Party was too poor. We also believe that the new age to be treated today shows this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e794	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e797	My main task as Minister of Justice is to ensure citizens security, democracy and legal certainty. Legal certainty means protecting citizens from abuses by the authorities or by other citizens. In order to ensure the security of individuals, efforts to prevent and combat crime and to reduce the vulnerability of society are central. The 2005 draft budget prioritises security, security and preparedness. Police are the main thrust of the proposal, with an increase of approximately DKK 0.25 billion. The initiative shall provide a more active police force, in particular with regard to the prevention of child and youth crime, the fight against serious and heavy organised crime and the management of emergency situations. The appropriations allocated to the police have increased further during the budgetary procedure, and I am, of course, pleased about that. In the government’s 2004–2005 draft budget, social security and preparedness, courts and, in particular, criminal justice with capacity-enhancing measures have been prioritised. The increase in funding for criminal services has been absolutely necessary and has contributed to the reduction of the pay queue. In addition to this strengthening of the police, the proposed increase in the appropriations allocated to the courts in 2005 will primarily cover expenditure on local projects and conversion costs, but will also help to reduce the case resolution time and reduce the stock of cases. The allocation of criminal services has been proposed for, inter alia: to cover the full-year impact of capacity-enhancing measures in 2004. The allocation to the Police College is proposed to be strengthened in order to accommodate three new classes. The higher prosecution authority is also being strengthened. At a time when the United States and Europe, in addition to the rest of the world, have experienced terrorist attacks, action within society’s security and preparedness is a priority. The increased allocation to the PST and the introduction of biometric characteristics in passports shall contribute to this. I am very pleased that the budget for the justice sector has increased by 275 million. kr during the examination of the budgetary framework. The police budget thus receives, adjusted for technical conditions, a total increase of approx. 465 million. kr. In the course of the budgetary procedure, the criminal justice budget was further strengthened by 30 million. UKL 25 million. kr and the 1 million rescue service. kr. After this, the police are even better equipped to fight an increasingly complex crime scene both in the community and in organised crime. The framework increase also strengthens the criminal justice chain. The government is concerned with effective treatment in the criminal justice chain, thus minimising the time between reporting, apprehension, judgment and acquittal. The government has promoted a number of measures to speed up the flow of criminal proceedings: measures are in place in the context of criminal proceedings. The use of alternative conflict resolution models has been increased to reduce the pressure on the other criminal justice chain. The emphasis has been on increased cooperation between the police, the prosecution authority, the courts and the criminal justice system. In recent times, serious and organised crime has shown increasing indifference and brutality. Crimes are being carried out with increased use of violence and weapons. The Police Directorate has prepared a report following the Stavanger case that illuminates police preparedness and equipment. The Ministry of Justice is following up the report, and some of it will be brought back in the context of the 2004 effusion later today. The organised and serious crime shall meet with all available methods. New methods should also be considered. Close international cooperation is also important. To meet the new challenges, the organisation of the police is also changing. A new special body, New Kripos, will be established from 1 January 2005. The prevention and combating of trafficking in women and children continues through the implementation of the Action Plan against trafficking in women and children. An action plan has been drawn up over three years against financial crime. Crime can be combated by prevention and correction. In addition to close cooperation in the criminal justice chain, cooperation with other social actors is important. Initiatives have been taken to improve police and health cooperation. In criminal matters, administrative cooperation shall contribute to improving the quality of the contents of the settlement and to preparing the prisoner for life after the settlement. The aim is to launch trial projects with a judicially-led drug programme, or ‘drug court’, for drug users. The Ministry of Justice is also working to facilitate the meeting of lawbreakers, victims and communities in order to contribute to the restoration of material damage and the processing of interpersonal relations — so-called reconciliation light or ‘restorative justice’. The Ministry of Justice will cooperate with other departments concerned in 2005 on a new action plan against child and youth crime. The government has launched a three-year pilot project — ‘SNU young offenders in time’. It focuses on systematic administrative cooperation and aims to help young offenders obtain the necessary help for a decent life without crime. In 2005, the Police Directorate will set up a strategy to combat child and youth crime. Legal certainty is part of the value base of the legal State. The Ministry of Justice is working on the follow-up of e.g. The Dispute Settlement Committee and the Committee of Advocates, which deal with how access to legal assistance and conflict resolution can best and as effectively as possible safeguard the rights of individual citizens. The Ministry of Justice has appointed a selection to determine the position of the person concerned and the position of the victim in criminal proceedings. In addition, a working group shall address non-judicial issues related to the meeting of the relatives and victims with the police and the judiciary. The government will present a big message about the police role next year. Based on societal challenges and developments, police tasks, cooperation with other public and private actors, in particular the Defence, will be highlighted. Police personnel, education and recruitment, as well as the allocation of resources in the establishment, will be assessed. The notification will also include an evaluation of the police reform. This year there has been a debate on police reform. The implementation of the reform has been absolutely necessary to meet the new crime scene and, at the same time, to have a more active and outreach police force. Key objectives have been empowerment at all stages and more efficient use of resources. The organisation of civil justice on the ground will also be renewed. The local anchoring of the police and officers' seats is further strengthened by this renewal. Let me add that it is often through the grip of centralisation in society that institutions for content are being emptied. However, precisely through this approach to civil justice on the basic level, the content of institutions has been strengthened. As far as this strengthening is concerned – as I have said before here in the Chamber – you can see it in such a way that if the parish priest should disappear as a local public servant, the police will remain. It should probably be emphasized, since this council itself is a member of the Church of State: I am in favour of a distinction between church and state, so this is an expression that something is locally heavily anchored. Norway is a complex and pig-grown country in the world, some have said. Yeah, well, the police have to be there. The proportion of the population exposed to violence is relatively low and stable, yet worrying and very burdensome to those exposed to it. Violence creates fear and is very serious for those who are affected. The government has therefore established an action plan of 30 measures against violence in close relations for the period 2004–2007. The system of mobile violence alarms has been made nationwide. The Police Directorate shall continue to strengthen the system of family violence coordinators. In the last two years, the content of the criminal execution, in particular for drug users and convicted of violence, has been prioritised. This will continue in 2005. The expansion of prison capacity has been a high priority in recent years. From 2002 to the end of 2004, capacity increases by 320 seats. A number of new sites will be available in 2005 as a result of sites completed in 2004. The examination of the budget within the Committee will also contribute to the creation of a total of 29 new posts early in the autumn of 2005. The Ministry of Justice is actively working to further increase prison capacity. It is important to find a form of response adapted to the criminal offence and the situation of the offender. The Ministry of Justice is concerned with both positive responses to those who want to settle and more stringent treatment for those who abuse trust and organised criminals. There has been a significant increase in the number of sentencing judges since 2002. The number of per mille programmes has also increased. Exploited release was put into service in 2004 for those who meet the parole requirements. The scheme is being extended slightly in 2005. The queue of sentenced persons waiting for housing has moved in the right direction from the summer of 2003 until now. Per. October 15th was the queue of 1896 judges. This shows that the measures to extend capacity, increase the use of alternative reaction forms and the use of advanced sample release have had a positive effect on the soot queue. As part of efforts to strengthen social security efforts, the Government also proposes to provide for the establishment of a common digital radio connection for emergency and emergency situations and to conclude a contract in a first development area in the Central East. In addition, the 2005 draft State Budget proposed an increase in the allocation to the rescue services in order to start work on the establishment of a new civil rescue helicopter base in Florø with a 24-hour bystander and funds have been provided in connection with the international rescue and preparedness exercise Barents Rescue. The substantial increase in the 2005 budget of the justice sector implies a commitment to the criminal justice chain in general and to the police in particular. It is important that the expectations of the public and the objectives set for the criminal proceedings are met. The resources of the sector must therefore be used effectively. The main resources of the sector are employees and managers, their knowledge, efforts, creativity and cooperation. That is what is essential for Norway to be a safe society. Finally, let me add: after visiting 42 prisons and after visiting police districts, I am proud of those for whom I am the boss. There are people who make a social effort of which there is great respect. In criminal matters in particular, a social spirit may be encountered in other parts of Norway. You meet people who stand up, who take care of prisons and care in a good way. And as I have said before, in Hamar, the sports skills could hardly have gone without employees and inmates volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e846	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e849	In the view of the Labour Party, the size made a very sensible decision last year: a clarification in relation to maintaining the number of service locations around the whole country. It is in accordance with what the Minister of Justice is now saying, that once the others have traveled, there will be one who will be left – we hope he will not be left to turn off the light – it is the gentleman. But then, as the Minister of Justice is also concerned, there are questions about the role this person should play. What role should local police play? I believe to recall that a collective justice department was also concerned that these gentlemen were going to be local authoritarians. Can the Minister of Justice today assure the Storting that, when he is about to go through phase II of the police reform, the officers and police officers will retain their police powers and their police authority and will also be allocated the necessary resources so that they can actually carry out good and effective police activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e854	Phase II of the police reform is described in the budget proposal along three lines of progress: finding good forms of cooperation now, sharing jobs, for example. have done in Sogn and Fjordane, i.e. someone takes traffic and someone takes violent crime, or you have a region model, where a lenner becomes the first among equals or co-wives to coordinate operations. That is what the Committee on Legal Affairs has also taken into account in its comment that if you want to centralize something, it is purely administrative. This is the adaptation in stage II of the reform. It is described in the budget proposal. It has been clearly expressed by the Committee, and of course I am taking this into account in my further work in the governance dialogue with the Directorate of Police. When I focus on a locally based police force, it's because we're actually living in a time when we're experiencing a centralization in Defense. Then it is quite important for all the total fight against crime and security, and not to talk about civil protection in our society, that we have a locally anchored police that, together with other good forces locally, are there as firefighters, emergency shelters and voluntary organizations. That is the basic idea contained in the budget proposal, which I also feel is expressed in the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e861	In paragraph 4, the following paragraph is added: 3 for 2004 by the topicality magazine Recht on a case-by-case basis, a magazine for the courts, discusses the costs of the legal fees and the source of the country’s income there. The headline is, ‘How expensive is it to go to the courts?’ There is also a concern here about the total costs, whether this would threaten legal certainty. The same article refers to discussions in Denmark, where a challenge has been faced that is parallel to the one we have here. We now see that the source of income in relation to the legal fee is substantial in the budget that is now to be adopted. It's one of the camels you have to swallow against your head. At the same time, I would like to hear the Minister of Justice’s assessment of the Danish Council of Justice’s opinion, which includes: has said that the exercise of the constitutional functions of the courts in relation to the legislative authority should not be made a taxable object. Does the Minister of Justice share such an approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e869	If, according to the information I have, you look at the total revenue and expenditure in 2004 relating to the courts, including case studies, you go with a deficit of 35 million. kr. I believe that it is not part of the core tasks of the courts – it is not, so it has to be self-evident – and that you look at, for example. The civil procedure, you'll see, after the knowledge that I have, that the courts actually do have a deficit of about. 700 million. kr. So you might say that the legal fees are high. Yes, but you have to look at the total costs. That's why I'm involved in the work of the Committee of Lawyers' Competitions, that's why I'm committed to having a dispute reform with group cases, with a small case procedure, and other good measures to ensure that people get the most legal certainty. I would argue strongly for the conciliators. It's really low-threshold light without taximeters, where you can solve a lot. We have a unique mediation tradition in Norway – let's use it. That is what I use in my thinking about legal certainty and the costs of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e874	I would like to ask the Council of State a question about something contained in the Fafo report, which we have discussed a lot. It's not based on a desire to excuse or exonerate criminal acts committed against other people, but it's about understanding how to better prevent crime and reintegrate criminal convictions back into society. From this point of view, it is of interest to me who live in Norway to avoid being exposed to crime. The main conclusion of the report is that successful reintegration into society cannot be ensured through individual measures, but must be based on an overall understanding of the extent of marginalisation in this group. Then the questions are: How has the Council of State intended to reach this conclusion? What concrete plans does the Ministry of Justice have to make sure that we are getting an overall response to this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e881	I would like to thank Mr Thorkildsen for a very constructive and important issue. I have also noticed that the representative in his comments may be critical, but also out of the rose. It is an approach that a left-winger can live well with. So back to the question. The Fafo report is hard to think about for all of us. Let me give two answers to that -- first of all. We are now working on a general management agreement between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, so that we know that the psychiatry works well. I've had a number of dialogues, conversations, with the Council of State Gabrielsen about this, and I'm sure we'll get it done. Then I can take an example: we have recently established in Bergen a project based in Bergen prison, but in cooperation with Health West, with the municipality of Bergen, with the state, regional child protection and with Aetat. It is said that young criminals should be helped out of crime when they are on their way out of prison. Creating binding administrative cooperation in this way is part of the overall approach. The SNU projects – there are six of them – are also an approach to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e888	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e891	The 2005 budget was put into effect by an agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party. During this four-year period, in three out of four budgets, it became the government's birth aid, the Progress Party, which was also a budget partner. Nor has this judicial budget been given a strong preventive profile, as I wish, despite the fact that we have recently learned about what, for example, is the case. Alcohol use costs the Norwegian community. The costs related only to alcohol-related crime in Norway are estimated to be about DKK 5.2 billion. But very few measures are being taken in this budget to steer development in a different direction. Alcohol use, especially among young people, is now in a straight curve upwards. It should worry most people who are concerned about crime and the development of violence in our society. But when that is said, I am very pleased that we have finally received a police helicopter as a work tool, which I personally have been very concerned about, and which I believe is the right tool to introduce into the Norwegian police force. I am also very pleased that it now appears that more and more policemen see the benefits they have of a police helicopter in their service. They say it's expensive – yes. These costs may well be taken into account. But someone should also set up an equation for what's being saved at the other end. For example, I can. mentioned the videotape we got to watch on the TV not long ago, by a car that was driving in the opposite direction on the motorway for several kilometres. Before, there had been police cars that might have tried to stop it, now it was a police helicopter that stopped it. In Sweden, where they have had police helicopters for many years, there has been no one who has been killed in such actions, while in Norway we have experienced this time and again. Now maybe we can drop it in the future. And another example: when a criminal is to be found and arrested when he's hiding, then a helicopter can lie over and maybe lead one police car with people in to apprehend the criminal, while otherwise you would use a lot of policemen, a lot of police cars, and maybe police dogs. There are such calculations that I think have to be set up to see if police helicopter operations are so expensive. I am also very pleased that the emergency network is now finally being proposed and hopefully adopted here today. It was really time. I now sincerely hope that the tender work, the extension and the drive-in period will go quickly and smoothly. It will probably save lives, at least it will provide increased security, security and great improvement in working conditions for police, fire services and health services. It will give the criminals and journalists a harder job, and it will give some unfortunate environments less insight, and that is no disadvantage. It'll be safer to be sick, and it'll be safer to be a victim of either a criminal act or, for example, a criminal act. for a fire. In addition, the privacy of these persons will be protected in a much better way. We are asking for all the synergies to be drawn. The majority of the Committee is also concerned that the emergency network should be publicly owned, managed and operated once it has finally been put in place, especially in order to ensure the safety of society. The Committee also states unanimously that there is no backbone to the development and operation of the emergency network before 2009. In the end, I have to bring a heart attack, and it is about the reform of things and the fate of the pawnbooks. We in the Workers' Party said no to the reorganisation of the clearing of things and the relocation of the pawnbooks. We actually predicted some of the things that we're now seeing is reality. The only good thing about the reorganization of things and the transfer of pawnbooks is that the government at least now seems to have stopped in time. But the bureaucratic system to which it is added, and which is proposed to Ullenswang, I would say we are very surprised – whether it will not present great challenges both in relation to information transmission and in relation to how to do this in order for customers not to feel that this is incredibly heavy. Usually you call the case handler at the sorenskriver. You could then just call Ringerijk and the case handler who will do it there, and get to know what you need to know. You would not have had to have a new service body, which is proposed here now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e902	I am proud of the budget we are about to adopt today. It's a good budget in every way. I am particularly proud of the massive increase we have been able to achieve for the police along with the Progress Party. This budget will ensure a more active and outspoken police force and make the police better equipped in the fight against crime, which means increased security for all of us. Security and legal certainty are fundamental prerequisites for the functioning of a welfare society. Ensuring a safe society is one of the most important things for us in the Right. The search light must focus on the individual's responsibilities for his own actions and on the conditions in society that affect the development of crime. Society must set clear limits to unacceptable behaviour, in the form of correct and rapid reaction. I've had the pleasure of visiting more police districts and not least a lot of LEN's offices and police stations throughout the last year. I want to commend the police for the good work done around, although in my opinion there are very big differences in what the public gets help for, from police districts to police districts. It shouldn't be like that. It is absolutely necessary that we get a greater user perspective into police work across the country. Police reform is a first step towards improving efficiency so that we can free resources from administrative tasks to a more operational police service. The large conversion processes that have been in the police and county seats lately have been very demanding for the department, but not least it has also been very demanding for every official. The Justice Committee will have an important job next year. That is when we get a very important and comprehensive big message, the big message about the police role. There's no doubt that we have to spend good time dealing with it very carefully, because that's not all that works as well as we would like. And we in the Right want to use the opportunity through the treatment of the police role message to illuminate and change those things. It is also true that there are wide variations in tasks in the various police districts, but also in the basis for resource allocation. It is now essential that funds be allocated to the various districts taking into account the uneven distribution of the burden. The right has been concerned about what is emerging from good action and good police work on the grassroots in the police. We all know that we have major challenges with regard to the grey-zone problem in the drugs and psychiatry field. I am therefore particularly pleased today that a measure taken by competent police officers in the South Trondelag police district has been put in place in the budget. Some of the policemen in Trondheim wanted to do something about the grey zone problem. They saw that some sick people did not get the help they needed, and they did not want the police to take care of these. Therefore, they have built up a project to develop and improve cooperation procedures between police, psychiatry and other relevant support agencies. Instead of taking these persons to the arrest, healthcare professionals are now ready to take care of them. It is not the task of the police to take care of sick people. But what is perhaps the most important thing in this project, which we have put in place, is that people who have problems with drugs and psychiatry are now being met with dignity – instead of being put on smooth cell. As justice politicians, we have to take inwards that the crime scene differs significantly from what we have seen in the past. The new crime scene requires new answers, and in order to respond to the new challenges, all of us who have a role to play in fighting crime must recognise the changes that have occurred and take the challenges seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e925	I want to pass on to Stortinget an experience from this fall: a long conversation with four boys in the Åna prison. They were to sit there for a very long time – at least three of them – and they were placed on one cell. There were four curtains that signbed the beds, which were placed inside a room that we find again when we browsed in old history books from the old forced labor camp that was in the same place. Never before in the nearly four years I've been on the Storting, I've felt to be closer to the imbalance that many of us agree to actually exist throughout the criminal justice chain. It's an imbalance that exists in many ways at two ends. It's actually been pointed out by all the speakers. So there is no violent political disagreement about this description, that there is an imbalance with regard to prevention, that there is, to the most extent, a major imbalance that is developing in relation to the reaction we are going to face the offenders. I believe there are two challenges ahead for justice politicians in Norway. The first is to maintain the high level of confidence of the law enforcement officers, whether they are employed in the courts, in the police or in the criminal justice system. Then it must not fail locally. Then it must not fail in terms of security and presence. The second main challenge is that we need to establish a higher percentage in terms of the number of those leaving Norwegian prisons and actually not coming back. It is with respect to report a rather meagre result that more than half of those leaving Norwegian prisons come back in and get a sentence in some form during the first five years after they have gone out. But it's not that nice, and it's not incomprehensible when we see that over 60 pst. of those currently in Norwegian prisons have significant drug problems, or, as the Fafo report describes it, 70 pst. of which are unemployed, and almost half lack education. 40 pst. of which they have health problems, and 35 pst. has no dwelling — more or less — to return to. There is therefore reason to rejoice that during these years and now – when we are to adopt the last budget during this period – the Judicial Committee has actually agreed on some main pillars. I have to say that I have the hope that the judicial committees of the future will also be able to continue such an agreement. We agree – perhaps with the exception of the Progress Party – on the relationship between drugs and crime and go a long way in pointing out instruments. We have to take care of that consensus. It's important. We agree that it is important to use alternative forms of reaction. A group of juriscomites – all the parties – has pointed out that it is gratifying, among other things, to have increased the use of community sanctions. Alternative thinking with regard to drug users ends up, and we also see an increased focus on conflict councils and the like for younger offenders. I have to allow myself to say – it is approaching Christmas – that even if from this pulpit you might say to political conflict, I am glad that in this budgetary agreement you actually have the ability to smooth out something, that when you got the big pot for police action that the Progress Party put on the table, you have the ability to say to the Progress Party: this is totally unsustainable. We have to turn on some of the funds to bet on criminal custody. What the Labour Party regrets is that, when you get into such a position that you actually spend a lot more money on the whole criminal justice chain, you choose to leave a minimum amount of money there and that there is a large number of places. I believe that future criminal justice and the fight against crime will be on the verge of looking at the high level of capacity we have in the criminal justice system. We have to admit that we need to spend more money to get operating resources into this sector, so that these people – not just the four boys in Åna prison – can be met with dignity, with something that promises them out of a life situation that really only invites more crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e946	The President is saying that it is not an absolute necessity to raise the issue of political conflict from the pulpit of the Storting. I guess it's so important with reflective articles.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e949	As little as happiness can be purchased for money, crime can be combated by increased appropriations alone. I am afraid that the Norwegian judicial debate is only about more money, stricter laws and new investigation methods. Such a one-sided approach to today's societal challenges is little forward-looking. We have to ask ourselves all the time, how can crime be prevented? The answers are easy to give, but the more difficult they are to comply with. We know that if children and young people are seen by adults, if they thrive at school and are struggling in good friend environments, the risk of them getting on the slope is small. We also know that if youth clubs are maintained and voluntary organisations are given the opportunity to run their leisure activities, this is a crime prevention tool. The same applies to police contact making in schools and in other youth settings. These simple, but important, things are easily drowning in the debate on cows, organized crime and more stringent compensation regimes for the wretched. It's sad. I want to quote Arnulf Upperland. He writes in the poem «In the grave of a criminal»: «Once upon a time you were a child. You smiled at the lamp, when it was lit, you grasped the light with small, eager fists." We must remember that crime is not a natural consequence. It can be prevented. This is precisely why prevention should be highlighted by us as justice politicians as the main measure of creating a safe society for all. Therefore, prevention is a universal dissemination of value. This is a great day for the 25,000 people in our three emergency settings who daily expose themselves to danger by taking care of the community's interests. Today, the size will give them a new common radio connection – probably one of the biggest Christmas presangs this year, with a price tag of SEK 3.6 billion. It has been working for a long time to replace the old analogues of police, fire services and health services. There is currently limited scope for communication between departments and between different geographical areas within each establishment. A new digital radio connection will change this setting. The goal is a nationwide link that can address any communication needs for the emergency budgets when they need it, where they need it. Modern radio communications are an essential input, whether in the face of organised crime or in the management of major accidents and complex rescue operations. At the same time, a comprehensive transition from analogue to digital technology provides a historic opportunity to bring everyone together in a common communication network for the emergency and emergency seats. This matter has been discussed during the last years of the budgetary procedure and during the examination of St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002 on social security, and now for the last time in the review of St.meld. No 39 for 2003-2004 on social security and civil-military cooperation. The requirement of data protection to ensure a radio link to listening speeds up the development process. An overall committee believes that the fastest possible deployment of a nationwide emergency network will provide a permanent solution for information security. With regard to the choice of the first extension area, the Stortinget has on several occasions pointed to the need to emphasise high population density, social critical infrastructure and areas with a high share of crime. An overall committee believes that voluntary organisations are an integral part of the Norwegian rescue service and that public emergency services depend on their resources. Voluntary organisations rely on a good relationship in order to be an effective and good partner for the public emergency and emergency seats. Necessary funds for investment in new interconnectors will be an economic burden on organisations, which will once again go beyond their activities. This must be emphasised during the deployment phase. The emergency network shall be operated under public control to ensure social security. Critical infrastructure is of major social importance. It is the responsibility of emergency and emergency missions to be able to deal with crises and disasters, therefore this effort is now being made. A governmental administrative body will own and operate the new emergency network and its responsibilities for the interconnector infrastructure will lapse. Many liaison officers will now be able to enjoy this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e990	The Labour Party believes that a holistic perspective on the fight against crime, with good, preventive welfare and rapid responses to criminal acts, is the most effective. If we're going to get rid of crime, we're going to depend on the whole criminal justice system working. The situation today is that the criminal justice chain is not in balance, because there are cows in the courts, and it is queues when it comes to settlement. It's serious that we have these cows, because they are destroying the preventive effect that the punishment has on those who are sentenced to punishment. Waiting for justice also weakens our confidence in our courts, and there is an unsustainable situation for the police. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus on many aspects of justice policy. But more money is needed, so you can get rid of these cows. Such atoning capacity is today, it is not possible to carry out the criminal reactions in relation to one convicted in the courts, and within the time limits that are desirable. According to the Labour Party’s assessment, it is necessary to have more settlements, through new buildings and the extension of existing prisons. Therefore, we will start building Halden Prison and increase the capacity of Bergen Prison. The Labour Party also believes that a good provision of justice is just as much about social justice. Economic and social differences shall not determine whether a person should be given the possibility of legal assistance and information on the rights he has. For this reason, the Workers' Party is going against property on free legal aid. The property of free legal aid is still an example of the right that has the decisive word in the government when it comes to distribution, i.e. tax relief to the richest. Then it is they with poor advice that will finance this in this budget, with the assets of free legal aid and the increase in VAT on all goods and services, which will affect most of those who have little. That the Left should join this career, we're amazed, and that the Christian People's Party accepts this, I don't understand anything at all. In this grip, the property of free legal aid, it's the really poor that's being framed. One cannot solve crime and drug problems from the general policy of a leader. Such is the situation now in many communities, with reductions in the supply of children and young people, by the closure of youth clubs, by the fact that municipalities do not give priority to school-time arrangements within scarce municipal budgets, and by the fact that drug and psychiatry services in our health regions do not receive enough money for action, it is not surprising that it is absolutely necessary to increase the funds to fight crime over the justice budget. But it will always be the prevention measures that work best, and there is a need here to use public funds and provide services in the public sector. It is not, as this government does, necessary to spend billions of dollars on tax bills for those who already have a lot of money and don't need an outstretched, helping hand from the public to get more money in their own wallet. There is a need for more Community action, more provision for children, young people and adults, so that one at all can pursue a policy of prevention, because that is what will always be the most successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1007	I am proud of the judicial budget that we are about to adopt today. It is a very central goal that the police, the prosecution authority, the courts and the criminal services function well as a whole chain of criminal proceedings. For the Government, it is essential that the time from a criminal act, through prosecution, until judgment is available, is short. Furthermore, it is important that there is a short period of time between judgment and atonement. For that judgment, it is essential that an opportunity be given to settle as quickly as possible. In order to maintain confidence in the legal system and to ensure the preventive effect of the penalty, a situation of queues is unfortunate. In recent years, the government has given priority to reducing the pay queue. Per. October 15th, now in the autumn, this figure was 1,896 persons. It has resulted in a fall of 701 judges since the turn of the year. Between 2002 and 2004, housing capacity has increased by 350 places. Through this draft budget for 2005 and the agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party, this work is continuing with great strength and we expect a further decline in the future. The need for new prison sites is particularly great in the eastern region. Lack of capacity captures considerable resources from the police, which must carry prisoners over long distances. This is the wrong use of police resources. In this budget, the majority have taken more steps to expand the settlement capacity by 29 new prison sites in 2005. This is to be done by building modules at the Inner Eastfold prison, department Eidsberg, and by converting former police detention cells in Drammen prison into closed prisons. This will be an important contribution to remedy this situation. It is striking that the Workers' Party does not support 15 new places at the Inner Eastfold prison – in the middle of the eastern region – close to the border and with the possibility of realizing it in a few months’ time. The government also has a particular focus on the special needs of border areas, especially in Eastfold. Building new prisons in Halden will be an important contribution to improving the efficiency of work on border-related crime. The Committee stresses the importance of progress in the project and calls for this work to be prioritised in future budgets. We also ask for feedback on progress in the revised national budget in spring 2005. So to a little bit about the content of criminal care. It is politically important that the objectives of criminal enforcement include both the implementation itself and the content of the settlement. Without targets on the use of rehabilitative instruments, we have a poor implementation of penalties. Crime prevention has an important role to play in facilitating criminal behaviour through both self-help and qualified assistance. This is central to the work of criminal services. I want to pay tribute to all those who have their work within the criminal justice system. I've met many of them in the last few months and become acquainted with enthusiastic, competent and good people. It is a central objective that the released person should return to society as a law-abiding citizen. For this work to succeed, it is important to keep an eye on the individual sentence, including here a tailor-made stitch, both during and after settlement. The people in criminal care do a very important job. The contact officer system is important for the environment and is of great importance to the individual. Access to different programmes during restitution allows the prisoner to overcome the problems that are causing the criminal behaviour. Combating crime and ensuring rehabilitation are not the sole responsibility of the justice sector. It is impossible for criminal services alone to prevent future crime, because the repeaters often have extensive social problems in addition to having drug and psychiatry challenges. Obliging interaction with the labour market, school, drug care, social services and psychiatry will make it possible to reduce the number of repeaters and help them to improve their lives. I would like to stress that cooperation must not be played out, which I think in many contexts can be something – apologies for the expression – dishonoured, but committed to interaction. Ensuring a place of residence by release is essential to the success of rehabilitation. Many also need help to live. This work must be given a high priority in the future. Finally, I would like to highlight the important work done by non-governmental organisations in relation to convictions and their relatives, both during and after settlement. In particular, the Fangers Family Association has, for 12 years, helped to focus on the position of the innocent third party, and in particular the situation of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1031	The police coverage has never been as bad as it is now, despite the fact that the purpose was the opposite. We are very dissatisfied, and we cannot live with this, said Reidar Gausdal from Flekkefjord Left to Minister of Justice Dørum when he visited Flekkefjord. In the same meeting, police chief Øystein Grytten said that they get the phone home in private when something happens, and that they have had up to 40 telephones home in a month from people who don't call the guard in Kristiansand. Further, what we see is a weakening, with a closed police station. We're experiencing a call-out time up to an hour. Why do the police just have to keep watch in big cities, and not in small towns? The weakening we have experienced in Flekkefjord is deadly, thunderous rapporteur Sigmund Kroslid of the Christian People's Party. If an accident occurs on the E39, the ambulance staff must conduct the traffic. At least it's not a good resource use. It is not necessary to put us back dramatically in time for an overview of the drug environment and other problems, said Anne Margrete Larsen of the Left in West Agder recently. Harald Barstad of Farsund Left concluded that criminals have had better opportunities to commit crimes, and he feared the establishment of civil protection groups. Not one thief in this country is in doubt that Flekkefjord is without police guards on the networks. It has benefited the entrepreneurs in recent years, Kåre Mathiassen concluded, from the Right, before he proposed that the fire crew in the city should take over the responsibility for being visible in the cityscape. Such clear statements must make an impression, even on a Council of State! Police have an important role in society, not only through the work they do, but also by being role models and authorities, and not least by being visible in the community. In the western part of West Agder it has come so far that there is almost a lookup in the locals whose uniformed police appear in the streets. In the media we can see that there have been cases of car theft, rape and threats on Friday evenings. And when those who are affected have contacted the police, they have been told to call again on Monday morning. That's why this is what police chief Gryten says, when they call the police privately. The rapporteur in Mandal was on TV yesterday and invited people to stop calling the rapporteur when the police did not move out. In West Agder we have had civil protection which has been blessed by the lentil man. So the last thing now is a proposal from the Right that firefighters should also act as police officers in the city. I understand the frustration. I understand that those who are affected by the fact that the police have no opportunity to help are being despaired. At the top of this, the Police Directorate chose to hear municipalities around Kristiansand about the impact of the police reform. In my opinion, it is totally unsustainable! The Minister of Justice has a responsibility to ensure that the police maintain the trust they need. But I guess as you call in the woods, you get answers. In this government, it does not seem that the Minister of Industry is producing so much business development, not to mention the Minister of Energy and the lack of energy policy. We need a new policy! We need politicians who want to build instead of building down. We need politicians who are willing to do something, and we need politicians who understand that something is wrong with the organisation of the police that we see today. Finally, I will quote Hill-Marta Solberg, who said the following in the financial debate: "Fuck you! ... The next harvest is the choice!’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1068	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1071	Everyone knows that the budgets would have changed if purely alternative budgets were what would be adopted and, if necessary, discussed. But in any case, we are so happy that we have increased the judicial budget more than ever before. In this way, we are also pleased to see that the Workers' Party and SV are able to play with the figures within the increased framework to which we have been negotiated. I must admit that I have not heard so much about the fact that I have received more now than the Workers' Party itself has managed to achieve in the past. Actually, the Workers' Party's representatives in this room have impressed me with their lack of memory – or perhaps a disclaimer of responsibility. Gull pointed out that the police situation had become more difficult and more difficult, especially in the last two years. I guess it's exactly the same with two pieces. the revised national budget and one State budget, i.e. the Workers' Party's own decisions. One looks forward to the choice and possibility of worker party influence. As far as I understand, the police reform, the organisation of the police, and not least the latest budgets, including all the budgetary problems for the current year, are part of the Labour Party's policy. So I assume that the Labour Party is pleased to be able to exacerbate the situation in the justice sector. Now, too, much of what we see of gross, organized crime in the capital area, otherwise generally also has branches beyond the limits of the capital. So it's the way criminals do things like some others, live in Akershus and commuter to work in Oslo. In this context, when we get big things, we see that it is important to see the capital investment in relation to the surrounding areas. I am confident that the Minister of Justice and the Police Directorate will do so, and that this is seen not only by the police in Oslo, but also by the surrounding police chambers. Another thing I want to address is the problem of cows in the courts. Although we are unable to achieve an equally rapid reduction in the queues and in the case resolution that the court administration had hoped for, we see that we are now going to take a good step on the way, and I hope that this will also be followed up later. Rapid case resolution is important not only in the fight against crime, but also in the context of civil proceedings and the confidence that Norwegian courts can be used as a conflict resolution agent, and that there can be an overall development in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1084	Just a few brief reflections. In the case of the courts, there is agreement between the Workers' Party, SV, the Government Parties and the Advance Party to strengthen them by 25 million. kr. This means that, in addition to what the Government has put in, bottlenecks can be combated. We know that we have some left in Oslo, especially in the Law of Lawyers, and we also have bottlenecks elsewhere. I believe that this, together with the very effective efforts of the Court of Justice administration to obtain effective judicial administration through the administrative arrangements of the courts, and by putting in place more judicial procedures and less party-led processes. When it comes to police and police budgets, I think it is a perfectly legitimate right for everyone to talk about any part of the country. But at the end of the day, there's one thing that's absolutely crucial, and that's the framework with which you're operating. I have never hidden the fact that we have been driving very hard with the police frames in 2003 and 2004 to do anything in criminal matters. It was therefore necessary to strengthen the framework for 2005. Then it has also happened that by the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party, the framework has been further strengthened. I have to say that when there is a clear difference here by the government parties and the Progress Party strengthening the police more than the criminal service, it is clear that there is a greater scope for strengthening the police locally with a local anchoring. With regard to Klungland's posts, there would be a glittering contribution if it had won the internal meeting of the Workers' Party when the frameworks were to be distributed, but that was not the place to reach them. If the representative of Klungland were to take his entire line with the post he was making now, he should vote in favour of the majority proposals of the government parties, as agreed with the Progress Party. The representative should have done that. If he wasn't supposed to have made a post that wasn't about a Minister of Justice who doesn't listen, because I'm listening! I am listening, and I am fighting for the budget for the police to be strengthened next year, for there to be a settlement between the government parties and the Progress Party that strengthens it more, and for the police director and I to agree that, regardless of police districts, there is something to be seen in the distribution between large, central units in the police and local organisation. I learned this, among other things. by being in Flekkefjord. I have listened to all the statements to which the representative referred, and these are wise statements. It is also true that when evaluating the police, three things have to be done: you have to ask the rapporteurs evenly, you have to ask in all the police districts, and then you have to go somewhere where there is SLT cooperation, or in other areas, go deep. That way you'll get more knowledge on the table. But ultimately, given that it's a competent management, given that it's an efficient management of resources, it's the financial framework that decides, and it's called political priority. There is a difference between the majority proposals of the government parties and the Progress Party and the Labour Party and SV, at least in terms of police frameworks. It is then clear that the person with more resources within those frameworks can create better conditions for a close-up police force that is locally and securely anchored with local trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1097	I just want to be allowed to comment briefly on the last thing that was now said in response to it as far as the representative of Klungland was concerned. I think Klungland made a very good post, in the sense that this is a signal that we hear from many other places. If you are going to meet such criticism in the way that the Minister of Justice is doing now, with many ways of putting the proposals on the police budgets next to each other and asking who is the best in the class, you will find that the Labour Party has at least put more money on the table than the Government has chosen to include in its draft budget, it is quite obvious. But in fact, I think it's a rather uninteresting exercise in itself when we're discussing the fight against crime, because in many ways it's describing a police in vacuum. What you're struggling with in the South, what you're struggling with in Hedmark, in the South Trondelag and, we've heard, also in North Norway, is much of the interaction throughout the criminal justice chain. In fact, the police are unable to find and recover custody sites. What do you think it contributes to, increased pressure or less pressure on the Norwegian police? The fact that the repeats are not brought in quickly to atoning, do you think it contributes to increased or less pressure on the Norwegian police? The lack of adequate follow-up of those in Norwegian prisons who do not receive the rehabilitation they actually require and do not get the contact they need with contact officers, etc., contributes to increased or reduced pressure on Norwegian police? It is in this setting and in this framework the Labour Party has chosen to prioritise more money, yes operating money, to the Norwegian police than the Government laid on the table initially. The majority of our quarter billions in relation to extra bets have just gone to the elements of criminal policy that the Norwegian police and many officials out there have said fail. They're about to drive land and beach around to find a prison cell, use a lot of resources on it, and the end of visas is often that they have to release him, who again commits both less serious and very serious crime. If you go in and look at the episodes that have happened in Norway in relation to the law, it is striking how many people should have actually been in a main negotiation to get their judgment or on a settlement where the sentence was effective, and not out to make new money, whether it's at Aker Brygge, in Stavanger or elsewhere. I would strongly warn against the argument that the Minister of Justice is now making, where in many ways he is beginning to measure the excellence of the police in isolation only from the police budgets. I think he's coming out badly if he's going to go into that exercise, but the practice should really be a completely different one, it should be to see this in a much larger context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1108	It was Rolf Terje Klungland's posts that made me take the floor, and the confirmation also came in the post from the representative of Storberget. It's obviously necessary for the Workers' Party to get together with its group and talk together, so that you know what you're really going to mean, because now you mean in the East and West. It is obvious that what Klungland is saying is in line with what the Minister of Justice also said, the solution of the government parties and the Progress Party here in the Stortinget, and Klungland should therefore vote in favour of it. I do not deny at all the descriptions that Klungland came with from the pulpit, because there were quotations from statements that have come both in newspapers, in meetings with individuals and with prominent representatives of the police and of the local authority. However, I will also allow myself to think a little backwards, when the Minister of Justice of the Labour Party presented this police reform and told everyone who sat and heard that this would release funds for operational work. If not, as the Workers' Party had arranged, she would eat her hat and go. Now it was not necessary to eat either the hat or to go on such a case, because the government in which the Minister of Justice was sitting was replaced before this was tried out properly. It tells us that it's a relatively simple task to stand on the Storting's pulpit and hammers loose in relation to a reform that hasn't had the effect you thought it was supposed to have in the first place. But I think it is almost irresponsible and a little dishonest to present it as a result of the current government's lack of efforts and the current government's failure in relation to the police. I think that the representative of Klungland, when he is about to speak, should reflect on a reality orientation that is consistent with what is the world of reality. Don't just throw out claims to hit others, try to look a little bit into your own group and into your own thoughts, so that you don't just present something that's going to affect others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1117	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for giving me the opportunity to reproduce in relation to what he said about my post, and I have no problem with the representative Marthinsen too, thinking back. That's what I was going to do at the time I have now. Before the police reform was adopted, it was that if the youth hit or broke a route or something in Flekkefjord or Kvinesdal, the police were there in 15 minutes. Today, on the other hand, if they have a custody prisoner to carry to Kristiansand, there is no police at all. It's looking back and comparing with what it's like today. The government usually boasts that there has never been as much money as it is today. No, that may be right, but people feel a bit insecure about what's happening to the police today, about how they used to be. So I know very well that the crime scene has changed, and that there are other tasks for the police today. But in terms of police reform, I want to say that the intention was to release more police and get them out on the street. Yes, it might have been important for the Christian People's Party, and so far for the Left too, that those who adopted the reform, and who had a plan for how it was to be implemented, could have continued in government, but those parties have chosen someone else. This has given us a governance, for which the Government must take responsibility, of the reform that has made us come where we are today. It is that it is serious when people feel insecurity in their everyday lives because they cannot get hold of the police. It is true that when there are repeated burglaries in the shops and journalists there is a long time before the police, it leads to frustration outside. The last thing in Flekkefjord is that they have begun to pick the parcometras at night, for there is no one stopping them anyway. That's why I want to say what I said: we need a policy and politicians who want to control the organisation. I remember being a trade union leader. Then we might have been told to cut 10 pst. in the budget, and then we had to manage the organisation out of it. What's missing from the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, I think, is a police management that allows people to see the police in the street again, which in turn makes them feel a sense of security in everyday life. We do not need civil protection and other systems that carry out police tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1135	It is nice to have a little temperature in an otherwise moderate debate. It's pulling up towards the end. I think it's good that Klungland shows the self-esteem that he actually does here, and refers to the lack of action both here and there. I can fully share the description of the justice sector, but I do not buy the solution proposal. But before I go this further: Klungland insisted that we also lack an energy policy. I thought that was interesting. You have to consider what you've been up to. For example, Nordland VI and VII, who once had the opportunity to do something about the former State Council Act of the Workers' Party, did nothing with, cf. energy policy, but when he came into opposition again, there was suddenly hallelujah mood and opportunity to do something there. Of course, you can go on your own and figure out what's most important. Then Klungland talked about accessibility, security and proximity. Yes, if the Labour Party now believes that the police have enough money, it is strange that they are actually doing something different in their budgets. If it's just the organisational that's the problem, you could do it another way. But I do not see that it is continuous in the description from the Workers' Party in their comments. But here, there might be two different fractions that haven't spoken before they came into the hall. But it has to be tested. I think the problem has been that the justice sector has been partly used as a balancing post, and has not taken advantage of the opportunities there to take into account people's feelings and feelings of security. I think that's our main problem. The representative of Frøiland spoke in his speech about joint solutions and public solutions. Yes, in many ways they are probably the best. But I think one should be extremely careful to substantiate all the voluntary teams and organisations and private foundations that contribute to the degrees to have a width of the various offers here. Something else would be disrespectful, at my discretion. To this day, I have believed that there was a great rescue operation today outside of Bjørnøya, where there was a private company that picked up the survivors who were in the sea. I think we should respect that. I think we have to look at the coordination between these inequalities. We have challenges in terms of settlements, housing queues, which you've been faced with. There are some challenges for the Government in the future. It's probably also how we all have a common goal of making things the best possible, overall. I guess that's the political approach that's nuanced here. Finally, I thought I'd take the chance to draw a quote again, which says a little bit about how I sometimes feel the opposition's approach in this sector. It was an American president named Abraham Lincoln who once said that he – and I choose to use the word ‘he’ in relation to the criminal policy of the other parties – remembered the man who murdered his parents and asked the judge for mercy because he was orphaned.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1152	The president now says uff then.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1155	I would like to thank you for a good justice debate, although at the end it reminded me more of a city government debate in Flekkefjord, where the representative Klungland tried to say in a way that if it had only been the Labour Party that had run, this would have been in order in Flekkefjord. The reality is that the government put forward a budget for justice, because it's probably next year's budget we're talking about, not last year's or year's, which increased the police appropriations by 250 million. kr. For the first time in many years, the Joint Association of Police – as Klungland has a trade union background – was concerned and clarified on its websites that this was a good budget for justice, a police budget in the right direction. We've had negotiations. Now I've been to four hearings in the Justice Committee. I have never experienced such a willingness to negotiate as we had now, and the opportunity we had to actually get this in place through the additional appropriations agreed by the Finance Committee, where the Progress Party and the Government Parties agreed to further increase police appropriations. So we have 331 million. new kroner for the operation of the police next year. Yes, then it may also happen that Klungland and Flekkefjord will have their share of this increase, that there will be a better near-police around the country. We're going to evaluate the police reform next year, a reform that Hanne Harlem presented, and which I think we'll see, when we evaluate it, has given many good results. But we focus very clearly in the Justice Committee on the need for more funding for the local police, for the police out there who are going to take the daily crime. We also pointed to the pilot project that will be launched next year, on problem-oriented police work, which I think will be a positive growth in this way. So if we're in the majority of this room, we're proposing 200 million. kr more to the police next year than the Workers' Party is in favour. It is by the means which the Party of Workers is free to dispose of within the limits adopted. I also note that from now until the summer, 110 new places will be opened, both those agreed on in a deal with the Workers' Party last year, and the 29 new ones that we are now adopting. We will also ensure the balance in the criminal justice chain that Knut Storberget was concerned about. This is the best justice budget in many years. I'm sure the results will be noticed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1171	The representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen has spoken twice in this debate and is given the floor to a brief comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1174	Thank you for that. I'm going to use that minute to emphasize that it's a little bit of an easy way the representative of Klungland presents his views, because he doesn't grasp what's actually going on, but he's getting into the air, as I understand it. Firstly, what Trond Helleland has now said is about the budget for the current year. What about the $200 million and their use? Why has Klungland not received a pass in its own party for a different use of that money? Secondly, it would have been best, said Klungland, if the Workers' Party had continued, because then it would be possible to secure funds for this. Yes, what happened during the budget debate between the government parties and the Workers' Party last year? Was the Workers' Party then intensely committed to providing the police with funds for the budget period we are now in? - No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1183	Firstly, I am very pleased that, at the end of this long debate, attention was also focused on the important role of the police. I think that's very good. I would like to say about my predecessor as Minister of Justice, Hanne Harlem, that she never oversold the police reform. I'm not going to comment on if anyone did it, or how they did it, we can come back to that later. But you had to redispatch up to 400 jobs. It's done. Half of them have disappeared because we introduced the fifth holiday week. We introduce welfare reforms in Norway, and we acknowledge that. In connection with that reform, I have made it quite clear that we need to evaluate to learn. One has to evaluate by asking rapporteurs; one has to evaluate by asking police districts, and one has to go deep in some areas, for example. what is involved in crime prevention. Then it's finally the totality of a criminal case chain that counts, and it's Knut Storberget's representative and I fully agree. I have never concealed that I was running very tight budgets for the police in 2003 and 2004 in order to be able to bet within the framework of criminal justice. It's happened. Then it was absolutely necessary in the 2005 budget to do something about the police. Once it has become a budgetary settlement that further strengthens the police, while at the same time giving the courts important money and getting their criminal services, it is forming in total a whole. So this whole thing is also drawn in many ways over different political parties and what they stand for. It must be an honest and honest matter that it is. In that landscape, the government parties and the Progress Party provide more money for the police than the Workers' Party and SV do. That is an undisputed fact. So, of course, it's my responsibility as the Council of State to manage this wisely. What I have said about it in the budget proposal is also at the end of this debate. There are three priority areas, first of all, to do a lot to save children and young people, second, to be able to be acutely present and thirdly to fight organized crime. If you go back to a reputational survey that the Directorate of Police has done in relation to most people in this country, it is actually the priorities that you have also done. I feel that both the budget submitted and the conciliation presented provide good instruments for achieving better in relation to these objectives. There's been a lot of effort, there's a lot of effort, and we've got a good tool to do something further. My challenge as the Council of State, and I can never deny it, is of course to listen to those who have something to say, no matter who says it, and no matter where it is, learn what is taught, and spend wise money. But I'm also going to do it as the police director and I agreed on last summer, look at some districts if we're good enough in the distribution between large, central and local farms, and see if we're good enough, for example. in mobilising the local holdings with regard to their unique local knowledge. This is the constitutional responsibility of a Council of State, and I fully acknowledge that. But I feel that the budget and the conciliation have given me a good tool to look at the whole thing in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1200	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 698]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1215	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1222	There is agreement on all the changes proposed by the Government in the current year's budget. The main change is further appropriations for the recovery of the NOKAS. An additional allocation has been granted there before, in the revised national budget, and a new allocation of 9 million is now in place. kr. The police are making a great effort in this matter, and the results are starting to get too full, even in other matters that are being identified through the extraordinary efforts being made to stop this organized rans environment. In addition, 16 million are proposed. extra kr to meet the high demand it has become for machine-readable passports. Small changes are being made. The only point of disagreement in the setting is the creation of a new service centre related to the disclosure in Ullensvang. It was originally proposed a mortgage book register, but the government has assessed that this can be incorporated into the new centre in Ringerijk, and that instead a service centre in Ullensvang with 13-14 permanent jobs will be set up, which will be important, of course, for Ullensvang and for Hardanger, who needs this type of job. The Labour Party is opposed to this modernisation of the clearing of things. They have been against it all along, and they also now choose to vote against adding a service centre to Ullenswang and against creating the new jobs in Hardanger. There is a great deal of consensus in this matter, with the exception of this one disagreement about the clearing of things.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1233	I would like to comment on a matter in the regrouping proposal, and it is the one under the «Other cases», i.e. the pawnbook register in Ullensvang. Of course, because it was during this big time, I think well when the majority decided that the pawnbook archive was going to Ullensvang in Hardanger. I think very well the local involvement, with politicians and people in Hardanger, to get this register. It wasn't very good to be a horde land politician from the Labour Party, who chose to oppose the wish that was present in Ullensvang. The Labour Party said very clearly that it would be unnatural to separate the pawnbook register, and that it should be added to the Cartwork, as the Government has also come to this day. But we in the Workers' Party got pepper. There were full halls here and hordes of politicians from the other parties who told the Workers' Party how bad the handling of Ullenswang would be, with all the jobs that would be created in there. I have to say, I don't need to say, what did I say? Because I thought it was awfully sad for a municipality that has done such a thorough job as Ullenswang did, that they could not trust that what was promised by a number of people on the Stortinget had reality in itself. Now we see that the government, after an overall assessment, believes that the mortgage book documents will be more cost-effective and everything in it, if you add the register to Ringerijk, to Henefoss. Obviously, the Labour Party is in agreement, because we've always said that it would be the best. But then the government proposes that a service centre with 13-14 jobs should be located for Ullensvang. My challenge to the Council of State, as I see it asking for the word, is: Can Ullensvang now get a guarantee that they will get these jobs, or is this a blow in the air to say next year that this will become a bureaucratic system that will not work after the purpose, because one can actually call Henefoss directly and get answers to it a wanted answer? When one does this in two steps, both deplete Ullenswang's involvement and weakens their ability to get government jobs, I'm going to make sure that this is a reality. From the Workers' Party's side, we have written critical comments on the service centre case, because we believe that this is an unnecessary system. I wanted the government to really sit down and look at what permanent jobs could be moved out. This government has done so, with the support of the Workers' Party. So I think it's possible to do that, and don't bring something that maybe is just a little bit of a blow in the air, which lasts one year or two, and then one says this wasn't good enough either. I would like to say that one in Ullenswang has been on to get jobs to Ullenswang, and they tend to get permanent jobs. That's what's meant by this post today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1250	It seemed almost as if the representative of Frøiland thought it was problematic to be a representative of Hordaland the last time, because she then somehow seemed unnatural to add the pawnbook to Ullensvang. The problem, as I understood it, was that the Workers' Party did not want to add anything to Ullenswang. Their problem was not, by itself, Ullenswang versus Ringerijk. They simply wanted to keep everything in the courts. Then I find it strange when the Workers' Party now comes and complains about the situation in Ullenswang, where they did not want to leave a single job.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1255	This could be the debate about the snow that fell last year or about the future. As for the debate on the snow that fell last year, it is a fact that I was well acquainted with the work that was done in Ullensvang to offer a comprehensive solution to the clearing of things. I thought it was important at the time to reward the initiative, and we proposed and agreed that the pawnbook should be added to Ullensvang. The working party was not for this. Then we acknowledge that we offer something that will not be permanent jobs. We then take the consequence that we want a community that has experienced that the big community is providing jobs to get something that lasts. It's directly in the new-age proposition that's been dealt with here, that we think the mortgage book workplaces will disappear after a certain period of time. Then, as an alternative, which we believe we have properly assessed, we suggest establishing a service centre, because we can decentralize that type of function in Norway. We have done so in other areas. Just to show how small it is: the Ministry of Justice laid down the Secretariat for the Compensation of Victims of Violence for Vardø. It's been a success. We even received applicants who maintained the application even though they were looking for it, thinking that the secretariat was in Bærum. So it's completely possible to decentralize and move out workplaces. It's precisely the technology that makes this possible, and we've done that in the new-ageing proposition. Now, if you're concerned that Ullenswang herred is going to have jobs that last longer than a short period of time, there's one way to do it, and that's to vote for the new Roman Numeral Decision promoted by the Government, which I'm glad to see has a majority. I have to admit that I take inward that when we promote a proposal that we sincerely believe is real, but notice that the solution will only be temporary, there are two choices: you can scrape what you did, and go away from it, or you can say that you'll find something that gives something that can last beyond the short term. I've chosen the last line, to go in for something that I think will last. That is why I have presented this to the Stortinget for new aging. Since the first proposal was a Roman Numeral Decision, I must propose a new Roman Numeral Decision. I have also said in this context that the Ministry of Justice, through all the bodies with which we can have dialogue, is prepared to continue the dialogue with Ullenswang Herred in order to be absolutely sure that we get this as well as possible. But of course, what's presented here is sincere. Why else would we put that forward? We put it forward because we want something that can last, versus something that we know won't last very long. So the Storting has a real choice: to go in for the proposal we've made, or not to do it. If you vote for it, you give something. If you vote against it, you don't give anything. That's what is the reality of reality in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1268	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1271	On the part of the Workers' Party, we believe that it is professionally correct that the clarification of matters should remain in the courts and in the case of the sorenist. We have believed that it has been professionally wrong to separate things from the mortgage book, as suggested from the outset. But we've lost that thing, and we see that the meat weights are there as elsewhere. But then I have to say, in this case we have written critical comments. We've been wondering. I would also like to remind you that we have opposed the reform, but we have not proposed a decision that we should not have the service function as the rapporteur now said that the Workers' Party will vote against. We've never said that. We're saying we're wondering. We think it's strange, but we're not going to vote against it, because we know that that's how it is, and that's why we haven't made a new proposal for a decision. We're going to vote in favour, even if we're critical of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1278	I am sorry that when I read the comments to the Workers' Party, where it says that they are ‘ununderstandable that it is now being launched by a service centre for the lighting of things’, and they believe that it is ‘economic and practically inconvenient to establish a new service centre for the lighting of things in Ullenswang’, I interpreted it in such a way that they would vote against it. However, as rapporteur-in-Office, I am very pleased that there was unanimity in this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1283	Yeah, we can't get enough of this. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 706]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1300	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1307	In the evening post yesterday we could read that every household has become 140,000 kr richer, and the governor writes in the Norwegian Bank's half-yearly report: «An unusual combination of good economic growth and a very low level of interest rates has strengthened the capacity of households and enterprises to operate debt». But the Central Statistical Office shows us another side of today's social development. The number of bankruptcies, forced sales and outsourcing transactions is increasing significantly. Minister of Finance Foss warned people in August this year not to borrow more than they can serve. On 5 November this year, the Newspaper wrote that 2004 would be a top year for debt cases in the public prosecutor's court, that the Nordics are sinking deeper and deeper in the debt. Until then, 1815 indebtedness negotiations had been opened, and there are as many as in 2003. If this continues, the number of debt cases will end up at approx. 2 500, and it hasn't been that high since the top year 1997. Half of the cases are consumer loans, and according to the clerk, 70-80 pst. the default of unsecured short-term loans and credit card debt. It's not the least strange, I think, when I see how, for example. Citibank advertises daily for a loan of NOK 10 000 to NOK 200000 without certainty for what you really want. It's written in small font. «Effective interest rate of DKK 35600 over six years is 20,64 %» Otherwise, the interest rates on such loans are 13-17 pst. The proposal we are now considering comes from SV, and a number of measures are proposed to avoid a new debt crisis that we had after the 1980s. There is a lot of research that being in financial difficulties can have terrible consequences for those who have ended up in this disaster. It goes out of night sleep, causes physical and mental distress, and eventually disease. It often ends in dissolved families, and it hits the children of these families extra hard. There should be a lot of exciting societal research on contexts, social expenditure, personal suffering and premature death in the data from times of debt crisis. In my opinion, the main measure is to prevent the growth of consumer loans that are loaned unsecured, credit cards with limits of money up to NOK 50000, overdrafts or payment delays on consumer goods and consumption loans of up to SEK 200000 without security. This requires high interest rates on bank loans. In order to avoid this type of loan, the entire Committee wishes to tighten up the rules governing the marketing of consumer loans and to make the real conditions clear to the customer. The Committee agrees to ask the Government to submit proposals for legislative changes that impose on lenders the non-advisory obligations of the Credit Purchases Act in accordance with the Financial Contracts Act § 47. The Committee also agrees to ask the Government to suspend access to personal bankruptcy with the cancellation of debts. The other three proposals proposed by SV do not agree with the majority of the Committee, and I expect the SV representative to address those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1341	First, I would like to pay tribute to the representatives for putting the debt crisis issue on the agenda. The relationship affects many people and is important for how we as a society deal with this with laws and regulations – driving rules that both prevent and help when the crisis is there. It is underlined by a unanimous judiciary that it is a fundamental principle to settle itself. In other words, pay what you owe. The debt burden is higher in Norwegian households than in many years and lending has been significantly higher than household income. For the Right, it is important to stress the importance of a responsible economic policy that has a low interest rate and exchange rate, precisely in order to create and secure jobs and secure value creation. The fact that the Government has provided low interest rates is important for all households with loans and ensures value creation in the form of new jobs. The parties to the Government, together with the majority of the Committee, do not support paragraph 1 of the proposal. The introduction of pre-emptive rights to claims may make it more difficult for ordinary people to borrow, not least to weaken the willingness to pay and the principle that a unanimous committee has just emphasised, namely to settle itself. For the Right, aggressive marketing of mortgages with high interest rates is not desirable. It is important that we get a law that strengthens the control of the form and content of marketing of unsecured credit, so that people have an overview of what you might go to. We look forward to better coordination of the Financial Contracts Act and the Credit Purchases Act. This is important in order to prevent and prevent a new debt crisis and to avoid higher risk speculation by banks, insurance companies and others, and that, in cases where applicable, the borrower is advised not to borrow, given what is the individual’s current ability to pay. We therefore support paragraph 3 of the proposal. As regards points 3 and 4 of the proposal, the Right does not support them, having regard to what the majority refers to in the case. In the case of paragraph 6 on the investigation of access to the cancellation of debts in the event of bankruptcy, the government parties do not support it. We share the concerns of the proposers that some of the reasons have been misplaced and that they are not capable of resolving themselves. In our view, there is a need for a law that can help clean up the debtor's economy, and that can allow a new start. The Debt Regulation already opens today to cancel the debt. The conditions shall be burdensome. Our starting point is that debts are to be paid by agreement. We have a system that makes sure that people make up for themselves, and that doesn't seem baffling to others who are struggling and paying debts. In addition, we believe that the practice requested by the majority in the area of debt cancellation can have adverse effects on the credit market. There is also an increased risk that the borrower will receive more expensive loans in the future. We believe that the Debt Regulations Act balances the considerations satisfactorily and does not see the need for further rules in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1364	Responsibility for fulfilling concluded agreements remains relatively strong in Norway. This also applies to indebtedness agreements. The starting point must be that contracts are to be kept and liabilities paid. But sometimes things go wrong, without this necessarily being speculative or expected or in any other way being a creditor's fault. Then it may be both necessary and reasonable to be able to provide help and opportunity to get back on track. As you can see, it is positive that representatives from SV have not only taken a step to put this issue on the agenda, but actually also propose measures. Often you're more concerned with showing that something is a problem than solving the problem. I am therefore pleased that there has been a choice here to make proposals for action. We are not as sure that all the proposals will help, and therefore we will not support them. But we're behind the proposals that have been put to the vote. Information is important. Not least if one is to be able to act as a market player in a market economy, it is essential to obtain full information and to be able to put this information into its own situation. We just have to admit that sometimes you need some help specifically to use the information and put it into your private situation. That's why we think it's important not only to go in and look at marketing, which is what first jumps you in the eye, but also to look at this as a professional party that lends a loan, and how that party should also have the opportunity and responsibility – in fact also a moral responsibility – to make sure that you don't put people in a more difficult situation than necessary. That is why we support this. With regard to the proposal to expedite access to personal bankruptcy with the cancellation of debts after, for example: The American model, I'm very pleased that SV has found something in the United States that it can bring with it. We are now of the opinion that the basis for supporting this is that we want to get a comprehensive and good review of how this can or will not fit into Norwegian law and into Norwegian society. But we think it's a point for Stortinget to look around and get the information we can get, even in this area. We trust that the Government, with the resources it possesses, also has the opportunity to make a good, well-worked assessment on a free basis to see if this is perhaps a possible way to go. But we all take reservations, even if we support the proposal for an investigation, because we want to see this in its full scope before we take a final assessment. So I have to admit that, with some tension, we look forward to seeing if this fits in, because we have to admit that there is a great difference between American law and Norwegian law in many areas, including within this. But we still think that with the large investigation capacity we know the department owns, this can hardly be seen as an excessive workload.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1373	It is obvious to the representative Kukkestad that we have some shocking news for him, among other things. that SV sees several aspects of American society as interesting. For example, Barna's House is one of them. The indebtedness of Norwegian households is the highest in excess of 10 years. Last time we in Norway experienced the combination of high unemployment and excessive debt burden, thousands of people ended up in debt victims. Policy measures are now needed to avoid this happening once more. The key to avoiding a new debt crisis is economic policies that reduce unemployment, monetary policies that do not help households to borrow overcapacity and reduce the pressures on the housing market. The measures proposed in Document No 8:66 for 2003-2004 from the SV Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, Heidi Grande Røys, Magnar Lund Bergo and Kjetil Bjørklund, have two main objectives. One is to prevent more people from having debt problems. The other is to relieve those who still end up in such a situation. For those who are already victims of debt, Norway has a debt regime law. The proposals that are promoted in the document we are debating today will strengthen the debtor's position if there are payment problems. But we stress that arrangements to take care of them with serious debt problems must be designed so that they cannot be abused by people who want to avoid their obligations. It has developed an unfortunate practice of reselling debt. The borrower cannot oppose this, nor does he have the right to purchase his own loan at the same price. For the borrower, this will often feel unsafe. Questions may also be asked about the reasonableness of a loan relationship to be transferred to any financial institution without the other party in the loan relationship being able to oppose it. There is a wide variation in how resold loans are handled between the different actors, and there are many examples of unfair treatment of borrowers. We therefore question whether it is reasonable that a loan relationship with a bank should be able to be transferred to any financial institution without the other party in the loan relationship being able to oppose it. It should be reasonable to offer the borrower an offer to buy the receivable under the same conditions as the lender is willing to sell the receivable to a third party. The borrower as a contractual partner has a more protective interest here than the third party who wants to buy the receivable. The amount of unsecured short-term credit has been increasing in recent years. Unsecured loans have a higher interest rate than collateralised loans. In recent years, interest rates have been higher than 20 pst. not unusual for consumer loans. Financial corporations often advertise with short processing time and simple requirements for the borrower. There is reason to question whether this leads to irresponsible credit rating. The marketing regulatory framework focuses in particular on the disclosure obligations of credit providers. However, the growing scale of incomplete and aggressive marketing suggests that this obligation is either not met well enough or is not strict enough. A reinforced control of the form and content of the marketing is therefore necessary. The Financial Contracts Act states that the lender has a non-advisory obligation when the circumstances indicate that the borrower should not raise a loan. It is important to monitor the adequate enforcement of the non-advisory obligation. The credit supervision is responsible for monitoring this market, but the individual credit rating is not monitored in the same way. In addition, the non-advisory obligation applies only to loans falling under the Financial Contracts Act. Account purchases are governed by the Credit Purchases Act. This credit is usually used without the customer being aware that the effective interest rate is very high. Therefore, there is a need for better coordination of the rules of the Financial Contracts Act and the Credit Purchases Act, so that the deterrent obligation applies in all relevant cases. The limitation period for loans for money shall be 10 years. Interruption occurs if the debtor explicitly or through his actions acknowledges the claim. Any attempt to settle matters will make it even more difficult to complete a loan that cannot be served. Although the starting point is that everyone should settle the debt, it should be considered whether to make it more difficult to interrupt the limitation period. In the event of a personal bankruptcy, the balance will continue to be attached to the debtor after dividends have been paid to the creditors. However, in some countries, such as the United States, a system opens up debt cancellation in the event of personal bankruptcy. According to Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Act, the outcome of bankruptcy proceedings is that that part of the debt that cannot be covered by the proceeds of the property can... – I'm sorry, President, here it is a small typographical error, that signed a little bit out of play. I will go on: in Norway, the debt regime law is mainly intended to deal with individuals who end up in economic ruin. However, there is a basis for a debate on whether the law is effective enough. A contribution to the debate will be an investigation into access to personal bankruptcy with the cancellation of debt in Norway. Finally, I would like to say that we are satisfied with the fact that we agree with several of the points, and I address the proposal, which we stand alone on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1396	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1399	Material values are becoming increasingly important to people in Norway. It is important for us to have ‘real’ clothes and to live at least as well as others in the circle, and not least it is felt as important to be able to tell about exotic foreign travel when we get back to work after the summer vacation. The pressure is great to ‘be like the others’. When the wish for things exceeds the individual's financial ability, priority is required. It's not easy to prioritize things that you want and that you see others have. In particular, this is difficult when shops and banks almost offer unsecured loans to consumers. Access to credit is easy – it may be harder to repay the loan. I'm not an economist. However, there is little need to know about the economy in order to be concerned that the debt burden of Norwegian households is now higher than in several years. If interest rates increase by a couple-three percent, there is reason to believe that many people will have problems repaying both mortgages and other loans. It is therefore very important to pursue a responsible economic policy that ensures a low interest rate and a high price. Low interest rates and low cost rates are not important for their own part, but they are essential to secure jobs and to ensure increased value creation. It is also important for the private economy of many families and to prevent the emergence of a new debt crisis in the country. When borrowing or buying on credit, the assumption is that the debt is to be paid in full. Therefore, the Christian People's Party cannot support SV's proposal for a right of pre-emption for the borrower when re-selling debt. We are afraid that such a right of pre-emption could weaken the willingness to pay and seem very unfair to those who pay the debt with interest in due time. We support paragraph No. 2 of Document No 8:66 and asks the Government to propose amendments to the law that strengthen the control of the form and content of the marketing of unsecured credit. It is important to ensure that the real conditions for the customer are clear. We also support the proposal to introduce a statutory non-advisory obligation for credit providers into the Credit Purchases Act. A similar non-advisory obligation exists today in the Financial Contracts Act. Harmonisation of legislation in this area is important. We must prevent financial institutions from speculating in lending to high-risk groups. We also have to prevent lending to people who, for economic or other reasons, should not be granted loans or credit. The majority of the Judicial Committee wishes to investigate a system of access to personal bankruptcy in Norway. An examination of this issue will, as I can understand, have to be about whether the Debt Schemes Act can and should be amended in order to make it easier to achieve immediate indebtedness. We in the Christian People's Party share the concern of the majority of the committee that some of the reasons are so severe that they are unable to settle for themselves. However, we recognise that in the future, there may be a need to assess the adornment of the debt regime law, so that it is somewhat easier to achieve immediate debt cancellation. We need to do what we can to prevent a new debt crisis in Norway. Some suggest that the risk of this is imminent, but we need to be aware that it can happen and take preventive measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1425	I note that the majority of the Committee does not support Document No. The 8th proposal on proposals Nos. One, four, five. I am therefore not commenting on these questions. With regard to proposals Nos. 2 and 6, I have obtained input from the Minister for Children and Family, as the questions concern her responsibilities. As regards proposal No: 2, to strengthen the control of the marketing of unsecured credit, there is already a comprehensive legislation imposing disclosure obligations on the creditor in respect of credit and loan agreements. In addition, the Consumer Ombudsman has recently followed up advertising where rapid credit and short processing time are suggested and clarified to the industry that such marketing could be contrary to existing legislation. There is also currently work in the EU on a new consumer credit directive, including information provisions. whether effective interest rates are central. Therefore, legislative changes need to be seen in the context of existing and future EU legislation in the field of consumer credit and marketing. For proposal No In my letter to the Committee on 27 May 2004, I stated that this is a matter which the Ministry already intends to consider on its own initiative in the context of a revision of the Credit Purchases Act. Such work should also be seen in the context of EU work on a new consumer credit directive, one of which is responsible for lending. The design of the Directive will have an impact on the rules that can be applied in Norway on the non-advisory nature of the Directive. As regards proposal No: 6, on personal bankruptcy, the Debt Regulations Act regulates indebtedness for individuals. The law already opens today so that the debt can be extinguished without a period of indebtedness. I will take the initiative to review the law to see if it can be further improved, as the Storting asks, and also assess whether other legislative measures may be necessary. In order to increase access to immediate debt cancellation for individuals, it is necessary to explore the consequences of the increased use of the rule of non-debt cancellation. The main difference between the Debt Orders Act and a Chapter 7 bankruptcy in the United States is that a period of indebtedness is not determined after Chapter 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1436	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 708]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1451	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1458	As rapporteur on this matter, I am told that the proposal does not receive any particular support in the committee, whether the vote is divided or expressed in two different ways. I believe, however, that there is reason to point out that the rationale is essentially the same for those parties that do not want to embark on the path proposed by the proposers. There are two reasons why this proposal is not supported. First of all, we see that it is the task of the courts in Norway to measure concrete expropriation compensation, and I do have to be allowed to add: fortunately. We would get a lot to do here in Stortinget if we had that problem. That's one, but the other is that it's actually the best way to make sure that the Constitution's intention is met in terms of getting full compensation, which most parties actually agree on. So the division of roles is one relationship that makes it difficult to go into this proposal. The second point, which relates to the first, is that it is difficult to specifically address the question of compensation for expropriation in one profession, one basic owner group, the forest owners, and then go on to point to one type of compensation calculation, all the time actually faced with several alternatives in the courts, several options to solve this, and several methods, so far, to calculate such compensation. So this is why the proposal is not being supported today. It is a majority who would like this to be annexed to the Minutes. The Labour Party and the SV want this proposal not to be accepted. As we see it, we are more in line with what the Minister of Justice also says in his letter to the Committee on the matter, where he recommends that the proposal be rejected, and to the extent that points to the same arguments that I have now pointed out. I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1469	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1472	The right sees the need to raise the issues in the proposal, and we will stress that expropriation is to be done for full compensation under the Constitution § 105. For all the landowners who are exposed to expropriation, this is an important principle and upholds important legal principles. That being said, we are sceptical about intervening in the task of the courts in setting the capitalisation rate. The functioning of the system today shall be governed by law and the handling of precisely this by the courts. Today’s compensation schemes are designed to take account of both society and landowners. In parallel with the discussion of this matter, we are familiar with the work done by the Bio diversity committee and that the mandate of the committee is, among other things, to look at precisely the strengthening of the legal basis for the protection of nature protection under the law, in this context also the level of restriction of the forms of protection in relation to the current rules on compensation under the law on nature protection. The representatives from the Right will therefore follow this matter closely, not least as regards how the situation develops for landowners who have expropriated forest property. Once the work of the Bio diversity committee has been completed, it is also natural to see it in the context of the issues raised in just Document No. 8:74.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1481	For the Progress Party, this has to do with some principles. It is okay that there is a court decision in relation to the final assessment of the compensation. At the same time, Stortinget is the legislator and has access to intervention if you find it appropriate. And that's kind of what's going to be the intersection here: the relationship to the free role of the courts. As I said, we have the opportunity to intervene in that way. What has been important for the Progress Party in this matter is that when the State expropriates something of which the landowner is actually the owner, the compensation should be such that you can acquire similar property elsewhere. We do not feel that is the case today, and that is the background for this. You can be surprised that no more are supporting this. I would believe several of the parties in this room were engaged in the rights of the landowners, to guarantee the landowners legal protection in relation to the state's ability to acquire their property. But I can see that this is not the case, that you have a relatively moderate approach to this. Some of us are worried, who feel that the basic owners need to be taken more seriously. At least you have to have a system that makes them not come out like the losing party, but that there is a balance between the compensation they get and what you have to give up. On the basis of that, I address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1490	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1493	Document No 8:74 raises the question of a legislative amendment concerning the rule of value for use of forests in the event of expropriation. I would like to express my agreement with the majority of the Judicial Committee which does not consider it appropriate for the legislator to intervene in the task of the courts by setting the interest rate on capitalisation, which is significant in measuring the value for use of forests. When the actual measurement is made by the existence of a net annual loss in the future, discounted to the time of the intervention, an objective capitalisation rate is used. This is a long-term interest rate that should have some stability over time, without being affected by more short-term and varied development conditions elsewhere. The interest rate on 5 pst. is not regulated and is based on the Supreme Court on an assessment of the appropriate level of a long-term interest rate for which the objective is to allow full compensation. The same rate will be applied to the courts for the purpose of assessing compensation for personal injury. The question raised is one of several elements of a composite substitution measurement. If a party to a claim considers that the circumstances that lie below the judgements of the courts when the level of interest currently practised was established have been permanently altered in such a way as to indicate a change in the course of time, this may be the case. It is then in the legal system of discretionary compensation rules which are intended to provide full compensation that the Court of Justice shall be open to genuine review of such an established level if the Court has to assume that the underlying assumptions have changed in time permanently and fundamentally. On the other hand, the system requires and should apply a certain threshold before such an established level of a long-term interest rate is adjusted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1505	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1508	In some cases, the large community must take the difficult step of forcing it to collect property. It may be more or less well justified, and this room disagrees a little about what is well justified, and what is less well justified. But when, from time to time, the big community has to take such a drastic step in relation to individuals, it is important to be aware of the emotional impact it has on them. Sometimes it can be quite right for individuals to meet such a situation, and sometimes it can be at the limit of the tragic. It could be a property that's been in the family's possession in several generations, where you've worked purposefully to get the property in a condition that allows it to serve certain functions. It is important to take into account when going to the difficult step of forcing. I think there is quite a consensus that, in addition to the emotional stresses in the matter, there will not be material burdens for the family, which must give up the property in which they are happy, and which they want to move on. That's why it's very important that we deal with what the law says about full compensation. There are different views on it, but I think it is important to remember the constant debate we have had in this Chamber for decades in relation to the concept of 'full compensation'. It is and will be an important concept for the Right in dealing with individuals facing this situation. So when we don't want to go into what's coming from the Progress Party in this case, it's complicated things, like, for example. issues of interest on capitalisation, and not least that there is a legislative body that looks at bio-diversity. Pending its investigation, it is unnatural to take a decision on this. In other words, the party of progress must be commended for raising this important debate, but less commendation for the moment it falls on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1520	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 709]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1535	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1540	Let me first give praise to the representative Thorkildsen for bringing up a topical and very important topic. By self-esteem, most of us see that some people are referred to begging — a city phenomenon, especially in the largest cities. This is primarily about human tragedy and suffering. In addition to a difficult social and economic situation, many tigers suffer from drug and psychiatry. Tigers need help to get out of a difficult situation and to a lesser extent punishment or fines. The right has full confidence that the review of the Law on Disposal will lead to a thorough and well-considered proposal on which paragraphs are to be maintained and which have played out their role. The majority of the Committee shall also vote in favour. In a future debate, we will have a discussion of which instruments are really best suited to help those who beg and are in a debasing situation. Are these legal and legal instruments, such as penalties and fines, or are they social policy instruments? It is possible that there is a combination of instruments — housing, help to live, treatment and inclusion. When a person resorts to begging for survival, it is usually the result of a very difficult life situation. Russ dependence is a problem for most people who partially feed on begging, struggling with it. It is a fact that the problems these people are struggling with are not being solved, even if a criminal law ban on begging is lifted. That is why I want the debate to focus on what means we have to help them, and what we politicians can do to ensure a life where begging is not a way to survive. Then we have to get away from the legal instruments and from the social policy. We will come back to that debate. For the Right, it is absolutely essential that society has tools and devices that are ready to help those who have it difficult. Right will have targeted measures for those who need it the most, and these people fall within this category. We have to make sure that those of us who need it get a new chance, and that actions and services are designed based on the individual human situation and needs. Reducing drug problems is about saving lives and helping to create a decent life for those involved. The efforts of the very heavy users are reinforced by continued increased efforts on drug-assisted rehabilitation and lowthreshold services. In Oslo, there is committed cooperation between the Oslo Police District, the Oslo Municipality and the Health East on various types of aid and treatment for drug addicts. In the 2005 budget, we underline the importance of the efficient and efficient functioning of this chain and the fact that it should be offered at the lowest possible threshold. Here, we can provide help to addicts to improve their living conditions, so that they get out of addiction, and provide a health offer to the most outnumbered addicts, for whom there is an urgent need. However, there are also challenges in getting those who need it the most to receive help. Unfortunately, not everyone is caught by the system, and especially those who do not want help to get rid of their drug dependence or other problems. Many non-profit and non-profit organisations do a fantastic job and are particularly important for those who are not caught by responsible authorities. These also have a contact surface and a contact facility that the public does not have in the same way. The Salvation Army, the Church's Bymission, to mention two, has over the years made an effective effort for those who have the most difficulty. In addition, the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party, the Government ask the Government to consider proposing to the Stortinget mandatory registration of collections of a certain size in the Collection Control and requirements for the proportion of the collected amount to be used for the purpose of collection. I find reason to comment on this, all the time that is left after treatment in the Storting of how to help the beggars. It concerns organisations that are largely aimed at helping different types of groups that are in a difficult situation. I am amazed that it is in this area the socialists and the Progress Party want to put their stamp on the matter of begging. Moreover, this is a matter that may not belong in the Justice Committee, nor under a beggar case. I easily get a feeling that it was not those who were the most difficult, they were looking to facilitate the situation; they were looking to investigate a bureaucratic code where engaged children who have collected for example. Save Children, must be registered in the Collection Check-up – it can also be an grandmother who comes with more than NOK 1000 to the account. If this is just an example, it's an example that shows that a positive commitment, an commitment that was just there to help others, is being pushed down by a possible bureaucratic code. I hope it's not this socialist who's been thinking about designing a code.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1574	I'm going to annoy and reassure the case rapporteur that grandma and grandmother and everyone else who had to run out and collect money for good purposes will not be knocked down by any bureaucracy. That is not the intention of the proposal that the majority is now behind. I'll come back later to what this is all about, because an explanation is obviously necessary. At the outset, I wanted to say that this proposal also welcomes the Workers' Party. It is good that the representative of Thorkildsen has brought this up. It focuses on part of what the judiciary has been driving up through history, and what kind of clientele you have created in relation to the law you actually have. It is well now widely agreed that those we perceive as both worn out and supported, and who are struggling with many social problems, have to deal mainly with different instruments than the justice sector has to deal with. I see this as a continuation of the work that was started in many ways when a lot of the prosecuting law was lifted at the end of the 1960s and early 1970s. I'm also sure the government will do what it should, in relation to just this. The worn-out must meet with measures other than punishment. That's the one. The second is that, in the future, there is likely to have to be more housekeepers with the instruments of criminal law than we have been accustomed to at present. We need to make tough priorities in relation to who is actually going to face the sanctions that we adopt in society. In line with that, it's quite obvious that the group that we're talking about here, those who are on the streets, shouldn't be some kind of princely audience. The third brings me to the point where the rapporteur stopped by and, in my opinion, perhaps created an unnecessary discussion around. With this proposal, the majority do not necessarily want to say that all beggars in society are deserving. What has unfortunately evolved, and which I think one should focus more on, is the organized, professional and very commercial begging that takes place through very unprofessional organisations in Norway, which either cover themselves behind some kind of good purpose and a voluntary organisation that does not exist, or that covers itself behind other false facades. Here we have seen an increasing trend. You collect quite a lot of money, and we see at the same time that the only thing we can take in relation to this, which is actually not an illegal activity, is to make a registration, which at least gives us some control over this type of activity. Here we're not talking about the cabotage in the backyard or the grandmother walking, but about a pretty big, organized business that collects a lot of money under the cover of that they're going to go for a good purpose. If that's a good purpose, we see that there's very little of these funds actually coming out, and that most of them are channeled into the pockets of those behind these collection actions. So here we're not talking about the small and unprofessional or the big, ideal organizations, which have good purposes, and which do a good job, and which are today voluntarily registered in the Collection Control. I believe that this should not be dangerous for anyone to support here in the Storting today, all the time we are just asking the Government to consider taking action in this regard and to point out in many ways that decriminalizing begging does not mean that we should not have a stronger searchlight on those who exploit the goodness of people for their own profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1587	It is well that every time has its legislative formulation, there is well a natural process in a social development. I think it's a little bit interesting to read the background of the proposal, which goes, of course, on the activity that happens on the street. «Løsgängerij, Betlery and Drunkenschaft» is a law that, hopefully today, is not considered to be as necessary as it was at the time, although there are elements of it that we are also challenged by in today's society. I will also join those who have given tribute to the proposer. This is a timely challenge, for which some people may have to go in themselves and look at the background. There is a background for some to end up in such a situation of life, with begging on the street, which is perceived as a problem for others to be exposed to. At the same time, I don't think begging is something you choose. Although some in the media have speculated that they have good incomes, I don't think it's a life you should bet on. I think sitting on the street begging is degrading, and it gives a poor quality of life. But at the same time, I think what we have to do is look at social legislation in relation to this, rather than work for a direct ban on it. The rapporteur has raised issues relating to the majority proposal, II. I'm a little surprised that he's so worried about it. I think the case rapporteur should also be concerned about some aggressive marketers, who call the disabled and elderly people who may not be sure what they say yes or no, and who get a large bill sent in the post office. But it's not the government parties. We're busy with that. I am also pleased that both the Workers' Party and SV see that dimension, because begging is not just about what is happening on the street level. It is also about being exposed to different types of marketing. Our goal must be that the people who are engaged in this form of begging do not do it in such a way that people are not aware of what they are actually exposed to. And the goal must be to prevent unprofessional backers from using their trust, because that's what this is all about. It's about that if we want to give money for a purpose, the money has to go directly for the purpose. The majority must not go in the pocket of any behindrs who are creative in making a collection action. I think it's timely that you also take that dimension with you. Although I am reasonably sure that the proposer would have wanted to focus more on the beggars themselves, it was at least for the Progress Party's part of power to also point to the unfairness of some abusers' trust. That should also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1596	When I went up to this pulpit in June and presented this proposal, there was a hot summer day out in Oslo. There were a lot of people tagging money. Most people who went to work were asked several times during the time they went through the center and e.g. down to Stortinget, if they could give some small money. There was a debate in the media about how to deal with this problem that ended in reviving the famous Barrier Act and the prohibition of begging, which had actually been a sleeping law for a very long time. We can understand that it is uncomfortable to get many questions from people who can be in a rather desperate situation, if you can contribute money. But there's not all the right way to deal with this, using power instead of meeting this with social measures. This is about the tragedies of individuals, but it is also about the fact that society is not actually able to meet these people's needs properly. If you ask them what they should want, and I have done that on a number of occasions, there are many who say that they would have liked to have entered the treatment site right away when they were motivated, and then they needed it, or that they would not have to sit in line and beg for money in the meantime to finance a drug abuse that they would have wanted to get rid of. So I'm very happy that the entire committee is joining in on the intention to remove a law that has obviously seen better days. Now it's time for us to get rid of it. And I think that is a good message for those people who are really at the bottom of the ladder in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1603	Fortunately, there are political questions to which it is easy to answer unconditionally no or yes. The question of whether begging should be prohibited is such a question. It should not be prohibited for drug addicts and others to pass by on small coins. Most beggars in Oslo are drug addicts, and many are waiting for treatment. For most, the option of begging will be crime and prostitution to finance drug abuse. Penalizing the beggars on the basis of the law prohibiting the weeds, as we have seen in Oslo, is not very appropriate. Reimbursement will only help to exacerbate an already difficult situation. In my opinion, this should be a very low priority task for the police. The law prohibits begging today. However, the law is under review, and the Government will shortly submit proposals for the repeal of the entire law at the hearing. I am quite sure that this work will result in recommending the ban on begging lifted. Such a recommendation will be supported by the Christian People's Party, and we ask the Ministry of Justice to bring the matter to the Stortinget as soon as possible. If begging appears to be threatening or aggressive, it could be affected by the penal code. That's still the way it has to be. We can't accept any kind of behavior that arouses the justified fear of the beggar. The Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV ask the Government to assess compulsory entry into the Collection Control for organisations that collect a certain size. I must admit that I find it somewhat strange that such a proposal is being made and adopted in connection with the examination of a private proposal that deals with something quite different. Although the proposal, II, is relatively vague in its form, we in the Christian People's Party believe that it could have been promoted in a different context and probably by another committee. We will therefore vote against this proposal. However, as far as the substance of the proposal is concerned, it is important to ensure confidence in the voluntary sector. The responsibility for the confidence of the voluntary sector lies exclusively with the organisations themselves. However, because organisations carry out many important tasks, both nationally and internationally, it is important to facilitate the continuation of the desire and income growth of voluntary organisations. Measures that give consumers a greater degree of certainty that the collected funds go towards the purpose should therefore be considered. The proposal for mandatory registration in the Collection Control is interesting, but problematic. Membership of the Collection Control costs money. It is therefore necessary to ask whether it is right to require non-governmental organisations to use the funds collected for such membership. I do not think the answer was given. A number of collections are arranged each year for small, local and ideal purposes. It may be difficult to draw a limit in relation to the organisations and types of collections that you are obliged to register in the Collection Control. I was also unable to draw the perfectly clear boundaries between who and what, based on what the representative Storberget said. It was those who were special, who were to be excluded, and who were typical of something – but who should say what purpose it is? I would also like to mention that there is no legal membership for organisations in a collection check in the other Nordic countries, as far as I know. I hope that at a later stage we will have the opportunity to discuss the challenges facing the voluntary sector in a broader and more holistic way than what we are doing today. This case does not justify such a discussion. Now we're dealing with the question of lifting the ban on begging, and it puts the Christian People's Party in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1629	The president understood it so that No Marte Thorkildsen was a little confused because the clock on the speaker's chair wasn't on. The representative is free to take another three minutes, if she wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1632	It was thoughtful. Suddenly there was only one minute left when I thought I had three minutes left. What I want to focus a little bit more on is something that the representative Schou addressed, namely, the means forward. The debate must not end with the next possible lifting of a law, and then it stops there. The problem won't go away. These are people who have a very big problem of both a social and a health nature. We have to deal with it in a different way in the future, we mean in SV, than what has been done so far. We have had a rush reform, and there have been some problems in the wake of it, among other things. in the case of cows. What we are also afraid of is that there is too little money in the system, so that more health businesses are counting on so-called effectiveness of drug treatment and care. This means that the individual needs of each drug addict are not taken into account, but the need to use the money effectively and resource-savingly. It could be well and good if at the same time it means that people get the offer they need. But if that doesn't mean it's alarming. So we want a much larger and more comprehensive bet on the drug field. This includes, inter alia: that people have to get an offer on the day they are motivated — not a year, or three months, afterwards. This means that we need to invest a lot more in emergency areas for detoxification. We need a much more differentiated approach to drug users. What they often experience is that they are viewed as a gray mass, not as individual individuals. Among other things, they have handed over a call to the Norwegian authorities – I think it was in February 2003 – where one of the points they drew out was: we are not all each other. In other words, it was desired that their needs – which are, according to who you ask, depending on who you ask here – should be taken into account. What they were also very concerned about was accommodation, that it should not be that people are placed in ghettos, but that instead you are placed with what are called ordinary people, that is, that you don't have to stigmatize even more as a group. I'm also very concerned that people aren't going to be placed in the shelters, because that's the recipe that it's going to go wrong one more time. If we ask drug users, who are now allowed to beg in peace – perhaps it's not a tourist season anymore – about why they're sitting there, they often say they're waiting in a treatment facility. When the police started using the law of ransoms and the fines some beggars, it really just meant that further crime had to be committed in order to finance the fines, which is completely meaningless, of course. So we welcome a debate in the future on instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1647	Many of the provisions of the Law on Disposal are mature to be repealed. I'm pleased that the committee thinks it's most neat to look at the whole law together. In a short time, I will send to the hearing a proposal to repeal the law and discuss which provisions should be completely repealed, which should be moved to other laws, and discuss whether it should be left to the municipalities to regulate in the police regulations some of the acts that are currently punishable by the law on the prosecuting of prosecuting. I agree with the Committee's member of the Socialist Left Party that police and other authorities must treat drug users and beggars properly. We all have a responsibility to act respectfully towards those who labor in our society. And on a general basis, I would say that we are not using criminal policy instruments to solve social policy challenges. I find that there is an opinion that Norwegian police also share, even if they do the job they have to do under the law. I want to see what is being dealt with today, and the answer I sent to the committee, in the context of my participation in the campaign 30 years ago to abolish the provision to send alcohol-damaged people to jail on the Jären – the time it was built, now it's called the Åna Prison. I thought that was very unworthy that time. I haven't changed my basic relationship to how to act in these contexts. I believe that what is social policy is going to meet social policy, and I believe that Norway has a lot of tools to meet and see people in a proper way. Although it can be provocative, we all have opportunities to do that. As I said, I fully agree with the representative of Thorkildsen when she says that no matter who you are, you have to be treated properly. And I mean myself there's two ways to show contempt. One way is to be very arrogant towards someone because they're struggling, the other way is not to put any reasonable and everyday expectations, which all normal people are waiting to meet in company with others. But then we are within the scope of social policy. And I'm also glad that it's been so widely emphasised in this debate that's been in Stortinget today. The majority of the Committee recommends that the Storting should ask the Government to consider submitting proposals for collection activities, including mandatory registration of collections of a certain size. I think it is right to say that I am concerned that a detailed regulation in the field can strangle the voluntary commitment that characterizes many actors. I agree with the members of the Committee from the Right and the Christian People's Party that compulsory registration can be costly and heavy for small and serious actors who carry out collection for charitable purposes. However, I have heard the debate that has been held here. And it is then that when the Storting accepts the request that the majority of the Committee endorses, the Government will consider whether rules should be introduced for the collection activity, as this proposal shows, and discuss the challenges arising therefrom.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1660	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox Then we should be done with the matters that were to be dealt with before we went to voting. [[See page 709]] There will now be calls to voting, and the president will let it ring a little longer than usual, because of internal transport problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1672	We then go to voting on case No. 1 to 7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e1996	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1 – to Framework Area 5 – and proposals No. 2-5, by Gunn Karin Gjul, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 6, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 7, from Inga Marte Thorkildsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President will first vote on minority proposals outside the scope of area 5. There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to use its powers to instruct the Office for Victim Compensation in order to change the strict practice of notification requirements within four to five days.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e2025	It is to be votted over publishing house No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to waive the use of advanced parole. No new measures will be launched with compensatory rebates.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e2040	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to make proposals to equalise the military and civil protection obligations, so that the term of protection of civil guardians is 12 months’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e2055	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government must continue to assist and provide alternative activities at Bruvoll Leir in North Odal as foreseen by the 2003 budgetary procedure.» The centre party has stated that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e2072	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan for where, what type and how many new settlements will be needed in a 10-year perspective, as well as the need for future staffing and for improvements and possible closures of existing prison buildings. The needs of female prisoners must be met in line with the needs of men in such a plan.» The centre party has announced that they want to support this proposal as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e2089	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The size requests the Government to establish transitional rules/regulations concerning the Law on Landfilling which guarantees the right of redemption more frequently than today and preferably at least every two years.2. The Storting asks the Government to grant the right of redemption every two years to the plots attached away for house and leisure purposes owned by the State or funds managed by the State.3. In the preparation of regulations for the Law on Landfills, the Government is asked to grant the right of attachment to the redemption of its recreational property where the fixed charges are less than 10 per cent of the gross income of the agricultural property [[(see section 4.4). the term ‘monthly part’ of the law;]] It's going to go first over points 1, 2 and 3. Furthermore, there will be a vote over point 4, which the Central Party has notified that they will support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e2112	Let's go to area 5. There is a proposal from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2005 State budget is authorised under: Cape TownDestination:CronesCronesExpenditure61High cost [[(see section 4.4). cap. 470)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e5334	The centre party has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e5919	During the debate, Mr Thorkildsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘a. The Government requests the Government to propose that the borrower be given a pre-emptive right to the claim under the same conditions as the lender is willing to sell to third parties.b. The majority asks the Government to take the initiative to review whether the practice of the Financial Contracts Act § 47 if dissuade works satisfactorily.c. The Government is asking for further changes to the law on the limitation of claims with a view to assessing whether the law can be amended to remedy the situation of debtors who have been in debt for a particularly long time.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e5929	President! As indicated in the setting, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party will vote for a and b, but against c.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e5936	It is then referred first to point (a) of the proposal, then to point (b) and then to point (c).
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e5975	Here the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e5989	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, from Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals by 1 January 2005, so that forest owners who are exposed to expropriation or different forms of forest property protection are granted compensation at the same level as in the case of concessional valuation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e6017	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:74 [[2003-2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e6055	The President has understood that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02.ana.ud1814e6068	We should now have done away with the alerts in case No. 1 to 7. On today's map, the case number remains. Eight, nine, and ten. The President proposes, since there is so little time left in the morning meeting, that we raise this morning's meeting now and start at noon. 18 with case No. Eight.
