ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e59	In this debate, the bourgeois parties have so far shown how civil cooperation depends on improved cooperation with the Progress Party. It represents a useful clarification in many ways. Civil cooperation, where the centre of gravity is increasingly shifted to the right, also means a more aggressive policy in terms of attacks on the welfare state and on workers. We see this clearly in the budget that we are dealing with today. Civil policy has clear winners and clear losers. Since politics is about choosing sides, choosing between different societal interests, through the budget, we can clearly see that the parties on the right-hand side consistently take a stand for those who already have the most. The largest tax reliefs go to them with high incomes and wealth. The bill is sent to people most through increased taxes on consumption. Ordinary people have to participate in spice layers to finance tax havens for the rich. Private consumption will continue to increase significantly more than public consumption and the result will be a new municipal deficit and a reduction in health enterprises. Those who own a dwelling are taxed. Those who are outside the housing market get even tougher to get in. Middle-aged men get most of the taxes. Women and young people, who depend most on welfare services, are the ones who will be hit by the savings knife. And while the government is setting a record when it comes to money usage, the students still have to worry about getting their economy worse for the third consecutive year. And while the right-hand side representatives are talking about their speed in Norway, there are tens of thousands of unemployed who hardly agree with it. The right has made it its project to contest that tax bills have a cost side, that the reliefs the Government will give, create black holes in public finances, and that the bill must be sent somewhere. There is an indisputable link between tax havens and lack of money in the public sector, and the consequence of this becomes clearer and clearer. We now experience in many municipalities that there is a threat of redundancy. In terms of services, schools, care for the elderly, health services, we experience a situation where more and more local politicians from different parties stand up to what they experience is a deterioration in the conditions of local democracy – a reality in which those who have been chosen by people to manage the interests of the people feel that politics is nothing but choosing where to cut, what to protect against cuts, who has to take the bill for low transfers from the state, and that the possibility of developing offensive visions for the local communities is very small from a local government hall. We see that hospitals will have another difficult year. The consequence of the approach now under way – because the Progress Party has not given priority to the hospital economy in the conciliation – is that we will have new attacks on local hospitals, new debates on where to cut it in regional health businesses, and more insecurity for health services for many people. And the excess will continue to rise, not least in the municipalities where the bill for low transfers is transferred to the population. We are in many ways within a time of fate for the welfare state. There are questions about how many people want to do at school. You might do that once to clean up, but you don't do it twice. Then you would like to send your children to private school instead. The question is how many people want to buy private health insurance when they feel that the public offer does not go far. The government, by cutting public consumption against the private sector, invites to undermine the solidarity that has made Norway a better country to live in than most others. The other side of the tax haven is, of course, that they increase the class divisions, as long as they are given to those sitting on top. The tax relief profile that the Government has had does not contribute to increasing the supply of work, as the Government is talking about, because tax reliefs are given consistently to those who do not have much more work to offer, while they are not given to those who might think to work more, those who earn less, and on whom we know reliefs have the most impact. And go contrary to a co-ordinated state of trade union economists, the government goes in to remove the house tax, even though it's obvious that it won't have any socio-economic beneficial effect. It was said earlier today that this budget is ‘double’ socially. In fact, it's double unsocial, because it both takes from those who have the least of us, and from public consumption and thus hits people with low incomes and those who sit at the bottom of the table, twice hard. In order to avoid that this obvious link between fiscal policy and poorer welfare offers causes people to turn their backs on the right side, the Right has dug forward for the longest time rejected tax theory. I think Ronald Reagan would be proud of the advertising campaign that Right ran in the newspaper KK earlier this fall, where one insists that lower taxes give more benefits, and that there is a connection between taxes and more money for well-being and health. There are no examples of tax incentives providing productivity growth that allow for the maintenance of tax access and the strengthening of public welfare. This is an idea that, in the past, only the Progress Party has prejudiced in Norway and that belongs to the political scrappowder. On the contrary, more and more modern research into tax theory shows a clear link between a relatively high level of taxation and high productivity. It is socially very effective to channel funds through democratic channels for allocating to socially-necessary investments that, in isolation, do not pay off. The American professor Peter Lindert even writes in his book that came earlier this year, that the welfare state has to be said in many ways to be a free lunch. It is best to be honest, and the political debate in Norway had served to ensure that the right side also admitted that we have a choice between investing in public welfare and tax havens that will lead to more services having to be financed privately. It's an honest debate and a fight we can fight with white swords, instead of the government trying to convince people that they have enough money for everything and everyone. Tax policy also has two other serious consequences. One is that it puts the equality in reverse. We know that the taxes that the Government has given go mainly to men. Over 80 pst. of the tax payable in relation to top taxes and dividend taxes, to men, and more than 60 pst. of the reliefs are in the housing tax. This is to be blind to the effects of fiscal policy on the distribution of power and resources between the sexes. The same applies to the generation perspective. Tax bills must necessarily go to those who have the most of them, and they are usually middle - aged and not young people. When we combine this with a housing policy that has failed, and a scandalous high youth unemployment, the government's youth accounts are very poor. Students are also among the major losers in this budget, which further weakens the youth profile. For the third consecutive year, the income of students is weakened by non-price adjustment of the cost standard. So this happens at the same time as we oblige students to be at universities and colleges for longer semesters and we've had a reform that says that it's a goal that students should be full-time students to get faster through education. The government combines this with a cut of 150 million. kr in student housing and with the removal of the travel allowance. This accounts look very poor for the youth group that was so high in 2001, and which has gained a weaker and weaker youth profile as the years have passed. Finally, I think we can establish that we are faced with some very clear choices, a polarization between what we present tonight, which is a socialist policy – for work and well-being, to use the state's muscles to combat unemployment, to develop value creation through resource management, and tax relief for those who have the least, not those who have the most – and the bourgeois policy for major class divisions, still great unemployment, and Carl I. Hagen on the load. We're dealing with a budget that has a clear profile, a profile that middle-aged men serve on, with a clear class stamp and a clear right-hand stamp.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e93	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e96	The representative Lightbakken continues where the representative Djupedal concluded: strong commitment to the government, and especially to the Right, unsocial policy. Equally strong commitment is not in the case of SV's own proposals, so I get some help. Today, a Document No is also being considered. Eight proposals. SV goes in here to take 6 million. kr from the Aid Budget Anti-AIDS Account to give to a concert in Tromsø – a 30 million-dollar concert. NOK, which some hope will go with profit. Here you take money to go to poor, AIDS women in Africa or Russia to subsidize a concert in Norway. I have to ask the representative Lysbakken whether it is part of SV's social profile to take from the sickest and poorest in the world to give to healthy, affordable concertgoers in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e105	It's going to be a little weird when the representative Larssen takes this Document No. The 8 proposal, which was thus promoted in parallel with the budgetary process, separately, instead of looking at the whole of the budget lines, where the efforts of the SV in relation to aid, in relation to the south policy and in relation to the fight against AIDS are indisputable, and where we also have our own profile and a number of proposals. In the budgetary process, we have looked at different solutions to get to this Tromsø project, which has been an important project. We could ideally think of a different way of getting this money than what's being done, but this is, when we look at the whole of our profile and the whole of the two proposals that stand up to each other, no doubt about who has the biggest stake in the questions that Heidi Larssen is very much concerned about. There is probably a lot that could have been taken from our budget that would have helped the matters that Larssen raises, much more than what is in the budget she herself voted for tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e112	The representative, Bjørlo Lysbakken, is trying to claim that there is no connection between the level of taxation and jobs, and I believe that Bjørlo Lysbakken has followed a little poorly. He does not have to go further than to his own hometown of Bergen, where the removal of the net pay arrangements for foreign travellers has just resulted in 350 losing their work. This is done by the fact that Fjord Line finds it necessary to flag out because SV and the government party do not go in for, and do not want, the same framework conditions as our competitors have, and therefore the ferry will tend to flag out. To Bergen's Official Journal, Group Leader in Bergen SV, Oddny Miljeteig says that it is bad and sad that SV is responsible for the loss of the job by 350 trade union comrades. My question to Bjørlo Lysbakken is: does he feel a social conscience for these 350 who are now losing their job, or does he not?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e119	It's truly brave of Gjermund Hagesetter to appear as so offensive in this question here. Those who followed when these 350 seafarers had their demonstration on Skoltegrundskaien in Bergen will have realized that the demonstration was also directed to the Progress Party, because the Progress Party did not prioritise maintaining net wages during the negotiations in which they have participated. So here, Gjermund Hageseter himself has an explanation problem that is far larger than ours, because SV is the party that has been consistent in this matter all along. We've never turned and never turned around. We were completely honest with the seafarers before the 2001 elections about what we thought about the net pay scheme. We have said that, and we have stood by what we have said. Other parties, on the other hand, have a major explanation problem in relation to this. I am, like everyone else in Bergen, terribly sorry for what has happened. What we've experienced is the third largest mass dismissal in the city's history. It's an accident for all of us, but the reason why it happens is not what SV has done in Stortinget, but that we have a shipping company that despite 60 pst. Profits in the third quarter of this year and the opportunity to leave the seafarers at work next year have chosen to let everyone go now — and that was the company’s choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e124	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e127	After the participation of middle-aged men in the previous speeches, I have some doubts as to whether I am meaningful, but it is possible. The budget adopted here later this evening illustrates the remarkable change that has occurred in the conditions and in the situation of Norwegian value creation and Norwegian industry in the last three years. The budget and the settlement provide a direction for the economic development that is a continuation of the government's course and that is now really producing results. A situational picture from Norwegian business in the autumn of 2001 compared to the current situation shows that we have gone from an excessive interest rate to an internationally competitive level, from a very strong krone to an exchange rate that companies can live with, from a budget year of DKK 12 billion in tax increases to a situation where tax reliefs are close to DKK 23 billion. In Norway, the pendulum has shifted from pessimism and fear of the future to optimism and progress towards the challenges ahead. The main line of the Government has been a clear objective of stimulating growth, first by helping Norway to get the most painless out of a low economic recession, where interest rates, crown prices and salary levels were in the process of suffocating the competitive industry. This work is more than well under way, and the results are visible to anyone who wants to see them. The interest rate is at an investment-friendly level, the Norwegian krona has weakened significantly, the economy is growing, there are daily announcements from the companies about new contracts, increased order entry, creation of new businesses. Large enterprises deliver good results and oil investment is increasing. Unemployment is also falling, albeit slowly, but it is not unnatural after a period of decline, and development is indisputably moving in the right direction. But it is not just Norwegian business and businesses that have benefited from the economic and fiscal policies that have gone so far over these three years. The implementation of the tax reform and the year’s tax relief is now also benefiting individuals through significant reductions in top taxes, by increases in bottoms for those with lower revenues and by reductions in property taxes. Not to be forgotten, it is historic that the house tax is now finally removed. This unfair and arbitrary tax on people's homes can now finally be put to death, hopefully without danger of a resurrection. It means a lot to the family economy, maybe a lot to the tens of thousands of the country's smallest pensioners and others with low incomes living in owner-occupied dwellings. It is therefore discouraging to read the comments from the Working Party and the lots on the left-hand side of the housing tax. There is clear disappointment that our homes do not continue to become a tax item, and one goes a long way in suggesting that one wants to maintain the housing tax and preferably expand it. Not only have tax incentives given people an improved situation, even in relation to the family economy. The lower rate of interest contributes more than significantly to a significant increase in the availability of income, particularly for families with large liabilities — and in the case of all at the start-up stage. More availability of own income is also increased freedom of choice for personal well-being. In the ideological rhetoric of the left, this freedom of choice is unsocial in that tax relief for large groups is presented as an unsocial policy, and tax relief is set against social welfare losses. But it's not like that! Now, when it's spent close to 23 billion for tax relief, it's used twice for increased well-being. So for each krona to tax relief, there's more than two krona going to increase well-being. Tax relief provides for increased value creation, which in turn generates growth, increased tax revenue and increased well-being. In particular, I would like to remind the Labour Party that the benefits we are now making at marginal tax for an average wage level relate to hundreds of thousands of people in this country. This now stamps the Workers' Party as tax relief for the rich on a daily basis, but we only reduce marginal taxes to a level that the Workers' Party under Gro Harlem Brundtland found both economically sound and ideologically correct – if the latter were assessed. At that time, too high marginal taxes had been passed on by the Workers' Party to damage the social economy. They still do! It is also a cross-thinking that the possibility of converting labour income into capital income for a lower tax was introduced by the Workers' Party. This is now an attempt by a civil government to correct, but to raise, high protests from the same working party, or at least almost the same, subject to a significant change in the view of marginal taxation. Tax reform will be an important tool for simplifying the tax system, for fairer taxation, by bringing together taxes on labour income and taxes on capital income. When the reform is implemented in full by reducing the wealth tax considerably and gradually, we will have a tax system that will stimulate private Norwegian ownership, which will stimulate people to work more and thus to increase value creation in business. Only in this way can we continue to safeguard our welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e144	Hospitals are heading for a deficit this year of about NOK 2.2 billion. Next year hospitals shall be balanced. The government's draft budget means that next year hospitals will receive about the same level of appropriations as this year. So the government says that hospitals have to cut their budgets next year by $2 billion to balance. Of course, this is not possible without carrying out drastic cuts that would weaken the supply of patients. For this reason, an overall opposition has consistently made it clear that the final budgetary procedure in the Grand Duchy must lead to increased appropriations for hospitals. In the view of the Workers' Party, it is right to maintain the requirement for a balanced operation at hospitals by the end of 2005. However, it is conditional on the size of the budget to provide a level of funding to enable hospitals to meet this requirement without depriving patients of important offers. The Advance Party often talks about increased appropriations for hospitals. The progress team often talks about protecting patients. But over and over again, we see that when the Progress Party has power, it gets talked to. Norwegian patients have absolute reason to be dissatisfied with the budget agreement. True, the comparison involves 500 million. kr more to the hospitals. But hospitals have to be balanced next year. They go this year with a deficit of NOK 2.2 billion. 500 million. kr more implies that the next year's operation must be cut by NOK 1.7 billion. The patients will feel that on the body. It is right to demand more health requirements for hospitals for each krona. It is possible to streamline hospitals without affecting patients. Therefore, the Workers' Party's alternative budget also requires such an improvement in efficiency. We are proposing to increase the appropriations for hospitals by NOK 1.5 billion. So the hospitals also have to improve the efficiency of our operations by 700 million. kr. It is realistic to do without patients being hit, but a cut of SEK 1.7 billion will certainly lead to drastic cuts in patient treatment. The Party of Presidents must take responsibility for this. Then probably people from the Progress Party will claim that a conversion of the effort-driven funding to 60 pst. emphasis on patient treatment will enable hospitals to ‘treat themselves’ out of the financial problems. They can't, because what does the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party say about this? Well, that's what it says. ‘ The ISF fraction is set to 60 pst. from 1 January 2005.’» In addition, it says: ‘In the context of the 2005 revised national budget, the government is asked to come back with an assessment and proposals to ensure cost control, see: Hagen Committee setting.’» And what does the Hagen Committee say about such cost control? Indeed, the sample states that a maximum limit must be set for the unit price refund. In order to obtain cost control, patient treatment must be prevented from growing too much. Hospitals are therefore unable to ‘treat’ themselves out of the economic problems. The budget knife has to come forward, and patient offers have to be cut away. So the Progress Party will probably claim that this year they will propose to cancel the hospital debt. However, although the Storting grants 5–6 billion kroner and cancels all hospital debts, it will only ease the operating budget by between 150 and 180 million next year. kr. A proposal to delete NOK 2 billion, which the representative of Alvheim in the morning meeting said would be promoted, will only ease the operating budget next year by about 60 million. kr for the whole of Health Norway. So the budget knife must remain in spite of any debt restructuring. The Progress Party will be responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e169	The economic policy pursued results. The Norwegian economy is on its way up from the wave valley, economic growth is on its way, employment is on its way, and unemployment is on its way down. The government's 2005 draft budget is based on this positive development. No government has ever done as much to improve the business environment as we have now. A well-functioning business is a prerequisite for Norway to remain the world’s best country to live in. Work is the key to better well-being, both for individuals and for society. It's important that everyone gets the benefit of having a job to do, and that we have great enough value creation for all of the well-being that we take as a matter of course that we can still finance. Therefore, welfare can never be set up against value creation — one assumes the other. The old slogan of the Workers' Party on first create, so advantages, are both good and right. It's just so sad that they seem to have forgotten that general, good framework conditions, including tax incentives for everyone, have an impact on business and the maintenance and establishment of jobs. It seems that the Workers' Party rather seems to be a more appropriate way to give individual groups particularly good conditions. You can ask if that's how they're going to operate now, find individual groups like this. shipowners, who deserve not only tax relief but tax exemption for their floating restaurant workers, while onshore restaurant workers do not receive it. After hearing about the unsocial tax policy of the Government today, among other things. To give to those who have the most of them, you can ask what is social, and what is unsocial. I do not understand that it is unsocial to reduce the gap between taxes on labour and taxes on capital. The Labour Party, on the other hand, thinks it is good that the people who take out their work as a return receive lower taxes than those who take out their work as a salary. Is this what the Labour Party's use of language is called fair distribution? For me, it's unfair. And since the Workers' Party will not reduce the tax on labour, it is nearby to ask whether they will raise the tax on capital beyond the 48 pst. which is today, and thus make it equal to tax treatment. The level of taxation triggers one of the most important value debates in a modern society. The sociologists believe that the state is always best placed to manage money, while the rest of us actually believe that individuals can make reasonable decisions. It's been a very long time since I heard the Workers' Party or SV say something other than that it needs public more money, and that public is the best administrators. Their desire for an inclusive public sector may not stop until the tax rate is 100. Right-wing believes that the dissemination of values and a decentralised decision-making model are the best guarantee for a good society. Power concentration should be avoided as far as possible. In addition, the right has confidence that the individual person and the individual enterprise can make good and long-term decisions that benefit society. We don't want a society where the diversity and the ability to choose differently disappears. Then freedom disappears too. And we cannot distinguish between economic and political freedom. This is one of the reasons why we don't want an inclusive state, and we don't want a very high tax burden. I'm going to give the socialists right at one point in the tax debate: there's a difference between who's in government. We can't afford a socialist experiment now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e192	Family policy is an important area of intervention for the Government. In the family message, we presented a number of measures for families with children. Commitment to life and parenthood, freedom of choice, equality of care and protection from violence are key elements of the government's family policy. Some measures have already been followed up, some are followed up in the 2005 budget proposal, and others represent longer-term challenges. This is a continuous and high priority work. The large investment in more and cheaper kindergartens is one of the most important measures for genuine freedom of choice and the better economy for young children’s parents. The initiative is stepped up in 2005. The government is concerned about the growing number of divorces and broken lives in families with children, and believes that it is important to contribute to strengthening togetherness and parenthood and to facilitating stable and good child-growth conditions. Therefore, we propose additional funds for the voluntary offer of a day’s free life course for couples and cohabitants when they have their first child, so that it can be made available in several municipalities. We also propose to strengthen ordinary lifelong learning. We suggested in the family message that cohabitants with common children under the age of 16 should also be obliged to mediation in the event of a breakup, similar to that for married couples. The needs of children must be treated equally, regardless of whether their parents have chosen marriage or cohabitation. We also proposed a reorganization of the mediation system so that resources are more focused on the most contentious and difficult issues. I come back to Stortinget with concrete amendments on this in 2005. We have put forward proposals to introduce joint parental responsibility for cohabitants. Parental responsibility is a fundamental parental right, and joint parental responsibility will mean a greater legal equality between children of cohabitants and children of married parents. As you know, this proposal for treatment in the Grand Duchy lies in these days. In the family message, the government outlined a plan to strengthen fathers' right to birth grant. The first measure of this plan is proposed in the budget and is intended to calculate the compensation of earnings under the spring quota on the sole basis of father’s income and not, which is currently reduced in relation to mother’s employment rate before birth. The family will then not lose financially under the father's quota because mother worked part-time before birth. The proposal means that the financial disadvantage for the family by father taking leave is reduced. This is an important step towards a more equal birth grant scheme. In the next round, all fathers should be entitled to four weeks of maternity leave based on their own earnings. The federal leave should also be extended, and my position is known that this should be done as an extension of the overall leave period. In the action plan against violence in close relations, the government has strengthened its efforts to combat violence and abuse against women and children. In addition, the Government intends to make proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act during the spring of 2005 on the basis of a report from a working group which has looked into whether or not the child’s concern is adequately addressed in matters of parental responsibility, permanent residence and cohabitation, and in which allegations of violence and abuse are made. Finally, I would like to say that I am proud that the Government proposes 33 pst. the increase in the adoption aid. This is an important contribution to the adoption of more children from abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e212	I followed the Council of State's comments with interest, and waited with excitement to hear the Council of State's assessments of how it would be possible to get speed and speed in kindergarten development here in the country. It was with great wonder that I had to find that not one word about it was mentioned in the articles of the Council of State. Unfortunately, under Laila Davøy's management of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the expansion of kindergartens has almost stagnated. In the Sem Declaration, the objective was full coverage in 2003. Now we're going to write it in 2005, and it's still a long way to go. In 2003, the goal was to build 12,000 sites — a total of 7 000. In 2004, the target was 12,000 places – it might be 7,000. In 2005, the Government’s overall over-objectives reduced the level of ambition to 9000 places. 20 000 young people are in line for kindergarten, and kindergarten is – and will become – a central element in a good child and family policy. My question is, When does the Council of State consider it possible to achieve the objective of full childcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e221	One of the main objectives in the kindergarten sector is to have enough space, to accommodate all children who need it. More kindergartens are now being built than in many, many years, and expansion has not stagnated. What is important is that many of the places that are being built today go to children who already have kindergarten. So, you want full kindergarten space instead of part-time spaces. When we have set a target, not about 9,000 places, but that 9,000 more children will have children's playground in 2005, it can mean 12,000, 13,000 and 14,000 places, for a kindergarten is both a part-time and a full-time place. So 9 000 children are going to fit in 2005. This is very well described in our budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e230	From the Progress Party we feel that we have a good dialogue with the Government on family policy issues. One of the areas where agreement has been reached in the budgetary negotiations we have had before this debate is kindergarten. These include: agreement on the assessment of the so-called unit cost principle. This is requested, inter alia. by private kindergartens, in order to ensure that they are actually given the means to be provided and that the funds do not disappear in otherwise dwindled municipal crates. I will not ask the Council of State to advance its conclusions in this assessment. But my question is, will the Council of State agree that the principle of unit costs could be a guarantee of as much equal treatment as possible for private and public kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e237	I would like to refer to the kindergarten agreement that was concluded between the various parties at Stortinget in June 2003. It's actually like we're now on our way with this phase-in. In next year's budget, we'll go a step further. From 1 August next year, private kindergartens will be covered with 85 pst. of the costs, corresponding to the municipal kindergartens. We are then a very long step towards further non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens. So we're on our way, and we're going to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e242	The representative Hill-Marta Solberg brought this up with expansion, but the council did not respond when it expected full coverage of kindergartens. The Council of State would like to use the answer to me to try to answer Solberg's question as to when we can expect to have full development. I would otherwise follow this up with quality, because the quality of the nursery was important when we entered the historic nursery agreement. Governments have sent a proposal for a new nursery law to be heard, a proposal that, in their view, would weaken the quality of kindergartens and weaken kindergartens such as the learning arena. A father in Ålesund says this: In general, there are already too few professionals in kindergarten. The assistant in the kindergarten is doing a good job, but someone has to be responsible for it, and what I think is natural for me to place at a pedagogue. The proposal for new kindergarten law is an easy way for central politicians to move away from promises. Instead of reconstructing, the government places more children into existing kindergartens. So it becomes full babysitting for a cheap money. What is the State Council's comment on this danger in Ålesund?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e255	In recognition of the fact that more and more children will have a full-day seat in kindergartens, the government has also said that with 20,000 children on a waiting list per year. September 2004, and at the speed of kindergarten development that we have, we see that we are going to use 2005 and 2006 if we give priority to getting everyone a seat, before we go further with step 2 of the maximum price scheme. It's the municipalities that build kindergartens. We have had extensive information campaigns, and we have launched a number of measures to enable municipalities to build faster. But the municipalities say this takes time. So to the kindergarten law. We've never had a hearing before, or we're going to have, a kindergarten law that, until those degrees, is speculated with quality requirements. We have a completely new chapter of content. There will not be one nursery in Norwegian society that will be able to cope with these stringent quality requirements without highly qualified pedagogical staff. The Government shall decide. We have different alternative proposals that we haven't decided on yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e264	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e267	This discussion of the use of DKK 10–12 billion by a government budget of DKK 600–700 billion may seem rather insignificant. But the government's budget proposal must be seen in the context of what the Government of Bondevik has done in the past. For it is a matter of small and large road choices, which in some cases show the direction of policy. After 3 and 1/2 years with the Bondevik government, we see this clearly: we get less political governance, the market is going to sort it out. Major societal tasks must be privatised or put off for competition, whether they relate to education, health, care for the elderly or transport, only recently to the Railway Agency. Targeted business and district policies have been reduced. It has been proposed to weaken workers' rights. Prime Minister Bondevik is trying to make the fight against poverty his trademark. That is why we are repeating again and again about his and the Government's great commitment in this area, in the fall of the throne debate, and in the mention of the government's budget proposal. When we look at the actual outcome and consequences of the Bondevik government's policy, it's not exactly the social mindset that impresses the most. The government has made the situation worse for the unemployed and the sick. The daily allowance is reduced, the minimum income requirement for a daily allowance is increased, the working time must be reduced by 50 pst. against before 40 pst. in order to qualify for daily allowances. Measures to get people out of work have been strongly reduced by the Government every year. The government proposed to open up more temporary employment and thus unsafe working conditions for many. For the sick, the properties are still suggested extra. Retired and disabled people have to pay again for their assets on a blue prescription. Rehabilitation and rehabilitation opportunities are reduced. With the support of the Progress Party, the government has received multiple numbers for the temporary disability allowance to have 66 pst. of permanent social security. This is what creates a number of poor people in this country, more people who are unable to cope without social assistance or other measures. This is going the wrong way. The Labour Party will pursue a policy to avoid people becoming poor, so let go of so many measures for the poor. The fight against poverty cannot become a trademark of the Bondevik government, but large tax havens for the richest must be followed. This also affects the draft budget we are now considering. All the tables and calculations that the Ministry of Finance itself has made show that people with incomes of the million class receive tens of thousands of dollars in tax bills, while one who spends 250,000 dollars will hardly notice anyone easily. The budgetary agreement with the Progress Party is somewhat better. So one might think that this is right or wrong, but at least it's going to be wrong to claim that this is a social budget, especially when one looks who's going to pay this light, and who it goes beyond. The budget agreement has put an end to the large proposed increase in the own-payment of medicine and treatment. But the deductibility of large costs of disease is being reduced. The commuters are expected to lose the deduction of additional costs by living outside the home, and the deduction from driving is greatly reduced. This is how the Government will treat the commuters who take the extra load of commuting. VAT increases and makes all goods, except food, more expensive for everyone. The Bondevik government has been capable of pursuing Right-wing policy. Well, that's got to be just the right thing to do. When a person experiences how happy the Christian People's Party is with the changes that were made in the negotiations with the Labour Party last year and with the Progress Party this year, a question has to be asked whether they are very pleased with their own government policy. At least the Labour Party will have a completely different policy. Last year we got through an agreement to stop some of the biggest decisions of the Right Policy. Among other things, the proposal for legislative changes that opened up for more temporary inclusion was stopped, the municipal sector and hospitals were strengthened, and we strengthened the efforts for work for all. This year, our alternative budget just shows the right-wing policy option. Several labour party representatives have gone into our draft budget in quite detail earlier this evening, so I shall not repeat it. But the Labour Party will keep to the deductions for the costs of illness and commuting. We want to strengthen the local economy noticeably. We want a completely different effort to get new jobs, a strengthening of the hospital economy, more kindergartens, etc. – a completely different public welfare policy from that contained in the draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e290	One may be dismayed by less than listening to Rudihagen, but I'm now going to swing into what has to do with my territory, the Norwegian health care system. As we have seen in many international rankings, the Norwegian health system is in many areas completely at the top of the world. But that's not the areas of Norwegian health care where we're at the top of the world, I'm going to dedicate these five minutes more. We are in a situation where every five children in this country have a mental problem that is so big that it affects their daily efforts at school. Between 100 000 and 200000 children have been adversely affected in their daily school performance, based on their parents’ mental health problems or on drug abuse. We know that between 15 and 20 pst. of us who live in this country will during life have an experience related to our mental health that needs to be handled. Today it is approx. 66 000 people in the Kingdom who have an alcohol consumption that causes them to have a daily problem with this. Between 10,000 and 15 000 of our young people are drug injectors. So in the world's best country to live in, in the world's best healthcare system, we're going to deal with a significant group of the Norwegian people who definitely can't be said to be sitting at the top half of our table. We also have a health care system where it's obvious that someone's sitting at the bottom half of the health policy table. So even if we're at the top of the world, we have a lot to deal with. The main government priorities in this area next year will be related to mental health and drug problems, just to try to raise those at the bottom of the table. Another main priority in the coming year is the fact that we have a health care system that, for my part, does not experience being neutral in relation to the diagnosis you have. We have a health care system where our own wallet doesn't matter, wherever we live in the country, whether we are male or female, young or old. But there's no doubt that we have some groups that haven't received the attention they should have in our health care. Many of them are the ones I talked about initially. In the state budget that we have submitted, and which is now being discussed, there is no doubt that what we have done in a very important area of health policy, namely mental health, makes the action plan we have for psychiatry definitely on track, and – I kept saying – more. But I think it's very important that we now also focus on the content of this service. There is also no doubt that if we are to succeed in the escalation plan for mental health, we should now, I believe, in the years that remain, focus in particular on what is happening in Norwegian municipalities. It is not enough just to build dwellings in Norwegian municipalities, it is about creating a content in the day for the individual that makes you have something else to stand up to than an apartment. That is why, in the state budget that is being treated, the funds are increasingly being diverted into the municipal sector. It's a twist that I think must continue. We have made a different priority and adjustment to the action plan, linked to the fact that there is no doubt that the problems are even greater than the objective criteria should be stated in our largest city councils. That is why we want to make a special effort in these areas. I mentioned drugs in particular. Nor is there any doubt that the fact that between 100 000 and 200,000 children are influenced by the excess alcohol consumption of their immediate caregivers should have our attention. We do that both nationally and internationally. That is why we have also made a priority in the state budget relating to the care of drug addicts. In the healthcare system as a whole, there are two areas that I want to focus on next year, and that it has been working for a long time. One key to your interaction. For me, it is almost completely incomprehensible that we are not able to interact better within the Norwegian health service than what we are doing. When you can interact, as I tend to say, back and forth to the moon, we have to be able to interact between the first and second line services, between the professionals. There is a rather difficult pile in the department with reports from the State Health Authority that show that there is no power to interact, either between the professionals or between the first and second line services. Even within a health budget of NOK 65 billion, I think it is possible to make significant, even if it does not sound like that when I hear the debate in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e312	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e315	I have a question related to the budgetary conciliation. It is stated in the budget agreement: ‘The ISF fraction is set to 60 pst. from 1 January 2005.’» And on the other hand, ‘In the context of the 2005 revised national budget, the government is asked to come back with an assessment and proposals to ensure cost control, see: Hagen Committee setting.’» The Hagen Committee says that it is necessary to set a maximum limit for the refund of the price. In order to obtain cost control, it is therefore necessary to prevent too much patient treatment from growing. The representative of Alvheim praised earlier today in an article agreed and suggested a growth in patient treatment in 2005 of about 6 pst. My question is: can hospitals now plan freely for growth in patient treatment, and will the state in any case pay the bill resulting from increased ISF payments?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e334	Let me first say what's in the budget agreement, that's what it says. It says, as the representative Hanssen correctly referred to, that we are going to come back to the revised national budget to look at what measures are needed to take in order not to have the undesirable effect of changing the ISF share. There's no doubt that in connection with that we had 60 pst. The ISF share in the past, there was also some kind of negative impact. It is enough to mention some disease groups that are not part of the ISF scheme, such as psychiatry, chronic disorders, drug abuse and some other things that it is quite obvious that you need to take care of the interests. When it comes to suggesting how sick the Norwegian people are going to be to next year, if the growth is 1, 2, 3, 4 or 6 pst., it's not, as far as I know, that we politicians can adopt. We'll see what happens, but there's no doubt that within a budget of $65 billion, we also have to have budgetary management that makes us have some kind of control, no matter what happens. That's what's in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e341	May I reiterate that you first refer from a post by the representative John Alvheim, you get to refer it correctly. I was talking about 5 pst. Not about 6 pst. I have registered with pleasure that the Minister of Health will do something about the hospital structure in the Oslo region. It's certainly high time, if that's how we're going to keep patients in focus, and we should. A combination of the hospitals in the Oslo region with one enterprise should, in my view, make the regional enterprises in the south and east redundant. Does the Minister of Health share my view in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e350	The background to the emergence of a debate around it is the fact that, as we said in the revised national budget, we started a process – we have done so – to look at the situation in the Oslo region. When you go in and look at the historical reason why you have chosen to put such a health policy berlin wall in the middle of the capital, you quickly see that you have not used deep-seated thoughts to determine this. It's very hard to find anyone at all who argues strongly that it's very wise to have it as we have it. That in itself should make sure you do something. The question is what to do. In the investigation currently under consultation, there are three to four different options outlined. Anyway, I'm at least going to hold the position that something has to be done. I cannot sit and watch that investment decisions are made that obviously lack the necessary coordination. I think it's pretty important, as the representative Alvheim said, to have the patient in the center. My starting point for how I'm going to spend that money Stortinget is going to grant health today is: How am I going to get as much as possible to the patient? Then I take less account of current and former state politicians, current and former directors and others who have had thoughts about this. That's what serves the patient, which will guide what I mean, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e359	I would first like to say that I think it is quite remarkable that the Council of State cannot estimate about what is expected next year in terms of activity in the specialist health service. That's what determines the total cost. The fact that there is almost an indication here that there is a clean guess of how many people are being treated cannot be an acceptable approach from a government council. What I'm concerned about and questioning is precisely the division of health regions. The playoffs of the Council of State have created uncertainty about the future structure of health regions and what the Council of State really intends to do about it. It is by decision in Stortinget that we have got today's regional breakdown. So there is now a wide-ranging debate about perhaps a future new regionalisation, not only related to health businesses, but also to other activities. Can the Council of State ensure that the issue of the regional breakdown of health enterprises will be brought to the Grand Duchy, so that it will be after a previous debate and any decision to change such a structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e366	First, the level of activity associated with the specialist health service. This is mentioned in St.prp. No 1, based on the premises we had there. It's quite obvious that increasing the ISF share to 60 pst. will influence this, but it will also affect what the Hagen Committee will do to influence this. There are, of course, economic incentives in such structures, and they will probably work. When it comes to creating uncertainty about future structure, we have a process going on where we're looking for alternative ways to do it in relation to the way it is today, and to see if we can make even better use of resources than is the case today. As far as the Council of State can guarantee that this is coming to the Grand Council, it is true that we announced in the revised national budget that it will be submitted to the Grand Council, not because the law requires it, and despite the fact that the Grand Duchy has also adopted in the law that it is the King of the Council of State who sets the regional borders, but because I believe it is such an important political question that the only natural thing is to present it to the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e380	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e383	This is my last financial debate. It's a little sad, especially when the Labour Party's alternative budget is a brilliant alternative for most people and for those who depend on a good welfare offer in this country, and especially when the policy options are clearer than they are for a long time. It gives hope of an exciting election campaign, which can involve many more than those who have gone to the elections in the last few years. The government party, together with the Progress Party, will be on a budget where most people will have to pay for tax relief for those who already have the most. They also offer a budget where a take from the public sector to give to the individuals who care the most. This is double unsocial. For the Labour Party, work for everyone will always be job no. 1st@item: inlistbox That is why we are facilitating increased employment in both the private and the public sectors in our budget. The unemployment rate is, and will be, a resource loss. In addition, it's tough for those who owe it, and their family. Investing in culture is offensive in terms of creating new jobs and taking care of existing ones. Building roads or roads in itself gives employment to the construction sector, where there are still thousands of unemployed people. In the Labour Party, we're going to bet $1 billion more on trade than the Government. There are at least 1000 new jobs in itself, as well as 1000 jobs in ring-effects. New and better roads and routes also provide business and people with better conditions in the whole country. It's important to build the country all the time. I am pleased that the Labour Party has kept this promise in connection with the management of the National Transport Plan for 2002-2011. We promised $1.6 billion less than the result, and we have increased the rewards in our alternative budget by $2.3 billion. When the government in the budget says that the debt is $3.8 billion, the Labour Party does not actually have a lag. We're proud of that. In spring, a decision was taken on the 2006–2015 framework for action of NOK 214.5 billion, 22 billion more than in the government’s proposals. We're going to follow up on that, too. The government has not taken this seriously. We need to get on the road, among other things. have a large lift that is not taken height to be able to plan in 2005. The working party has added 200 million. kr extra for this schedule. In addition, I'm going to allow 100 million. kr more for the purchase of passenger transport services on trains, and we have stated that, among other things. there is room for the Stockholm train and various discount schemes. We have taken away the road charges on the railway to stimulate freight from road to road, and we have increased the pay for public transport in the largest cities. We're making further suggestions to allow 520 million. kr more for different roadside destinations and 50 mill. kr for fishing ports. And then until the clearest distinction between the two government options in this period: the issue of repatriation of a limited liability company and the postponement of a state enterprise. If the Progress Party were to be left to the Christian People's Party on some issue in the distribution policy, they would be farthest on the right when it comes to the issue of competitive postponement and privatisation. In the Working Party, I'm worried. Perhaps it is privatisation that is the goal of the Post Norway AS. The majority will simply take 74 pst. replacement of excess after tax. That's what we call strumping, which of course the Labour Party is against. The entry Norge AS needs wristbeats in a tough conversion, not strumping. Someone may have registered that, among other things. I have expressed myself critical of the situation in aviation, not least when it concerns Avinor AS. Here, as far as I can understand, there is a total breach of trust between the rental and the addition. This may - this may - compromise your security. Governor Talleraas has stated that this has not been proved. Let's for all intents and purposes prevent this kind of proof. I hope the Government takes full responsibility for this. Aviation security, railway and maritime safety, where most of the time we are to be left to private via the launch of competition, and much more, is about the seventh and last thing about what we have in critical situations in this country. This is to a small extent distributed in the affairs of the commerce sector. It is a little strange, by the way, that the Railway Authority must assess the safety of laying a new cover at Kongsberg station, but not when it comes to disclosing what we have of competent staff in the railway sector in that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e409	We have heard it in many contexts when Jens Stoltenberg has been in debate, and also from this pulpit, that Norway is the world's best country to live in. Based on the debate conducted by the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre Party today, there must be some serious error in the calculations made by the UN once they have reached such a conclusion. For the signals that come from the socialists today, it is of such a nature that it is soon just to turn off the light in all the houses and homes of this country. That being said, Norway is a good country to live in. But there are some groups that are still struggling in their everyday lives. It is precisely these groups of the Progress Party that have given priority to the negotiations and to the conciliation we have reached, but in particular to its alternative budget. We've shifted the tax profile from less tax on those who have high incomes to less tax on those who have low incomes, and that's exactly what we've had as a goal. It reflects the whole profile of the deal, and not least what comes out of our alternative budget. It was with interest that I listened to the representative Hill-Marta Solberg and the representative Rudihagen earlier today, for here is much of the difference in the understanding of reality. I heard the representative Hill-Marta Solberg say that the Workers' Party prioritises 3,000 more action places. I think those people who might have to get these places of action wanted more work. That is the difference between the Labour Party and the Advance Party. Hill-Marta Solberg also said that the Workers' Party's alternative budget would involve approx. 7 000 new jobs in the public sector, preferably in care and school. Yes, are we now so sure that there is care and school that would have received these funds in the Workers' Party's alternative, when we know that there are 170 workers' party rapporteurs all around in the whole country and cut at just these posts? They did so in the current year, and the signals from the rapporteurs of the Labour Party are that they are likely to cut in 2005 at exactly the same posts. I think these workers' party rapporteurs would have done if they had got another one billion or two as well. We cannot trust and transfer more money to 300 socialist rapporteurs around the whole country. Because they can't get where they're going. In addition, the representative of Solberg, and in part also the representative of Rudihagen, says that the compensation for lost tax revenue that the Progress Party got in place in the conciliation, i.e. SEK 2.2 billion, doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. But now I have actually registered that a number of Labour Party rapporteurs and a lot of the Workers' Party representatives in local government are cheering. Instead of paying down the deficit they've had in the current year, by cutting to next year, they're paying it down this year. If these rapporteurs follow up what they say, it means that there will be more to health and care for next year. It is the rapporteurs of the Labour Party who say. There are differences in Kommune-Norge, sometimes large too – yes, they are jam so big that it is said to be 30 pst. better provision of services in some municipalities than in others. This is the basic problem in Kommune-Norway. The sum of resources allocated to the municipal sector is large enough, but there is something wrong with the income system and the cohesion. Then that's what we have to deal with. I understand that will take a very long time, as over the decades, the Workers' Party has established a system that has forced not only the municipalities to kneel. Individuals around the whole country are also forced to kneel through a tax system that makes them have to pray on their knees or jump for alms every day – because the Workers' Party has pushed them down with all these taxes and charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e425	In the coming years, a large level of knowledge and competence will be required in Norwegian schools. It must be a great promise of knowledge for the students, in respect of diversity and equivalency, primarily for those who today are not allowed to use their abilities and talents, and there are too many. Secondly, we are going to implement a historic commitment of competence for teachers and instructors and school leaders in Norwegian school. In my opinion, Norway has a very good starting point for this. Firstly, there is a great deal of support for the reform promoted by the Government here in this Chamber. [[Culture for learning]] Secondly, there is a lot that is already good in Norwegian education. When UNESCO presented its Global Monitoring Report the other day, Norway ranked as No. 1 when considering factors such as resources, access to education, level of education, etc. We probably have the highest level of education in the world. Thirdly, Norway is the country in the world, alongside the United States and Denmark, which spends most of its resources on education per year. student and student. Nevertheless, we have invested even more resources in education in this ageing period, and let me just mention something. The number of hours spent in primary school increases by 12 hours after it has been silent for very many years. Municipalities and counties determine resource use in primary and secondary schools, but that resource use has continued to increase. We have proposed to spend historical NOK 2-3 billion on school competence development, and when I say historically, that's for comparison approximately. 10 times as much as was used in connection with reform 97. We've got a new support scheme for high school students, which has increased the total grant payment by almost 40 p.p., to 1.9 billion kroner. We have continued the loan scheme for school construction, and funds have also been spent on anti- bullying. We have fully financed the quality reform in higher education with over SEK 1.1 billion, and in addition, the university and higher education sectors have contributed nearly 500 million. kr through the funding system. On top of this, the student support and the scholarship rate for students in higher education have been increased. However, this economic effort is not the most important thing in our education policy. The most important thing is to ensure that more children are given appropriate training, that more children and young people can benefit from their skills and talents, and that the school can contribute to social mobility. We want more knowledge, greater diversity and a more equivalent Norwegian school – in short, more quality. The most important thing for me is that more children, preferably all children, can feel safe at school, that they can acquire the basic skills they need later in life, that they can learn to learn, and that school can help balance and not reproduce social differences. And it's very small, if anything, that suggests that this is primarily a question of money, when we already spend as much resources as we do, on education in Norway. I think there are in particular four other things that are important, and that are therefore also important in our education policy. First, you need to know about the students, about the school, about the school and about the school's development potential. It pointed out to Norway as early as 1987. But only now are we getting a national quality assessment system, including national tests, new curricula with clear objectives of competence and a training administration that can contribute to school development across the country. Secondly, you have to have the skills to do something about the knowledge you gradually get. That is why we are committed to this great commitment to competence, a new teacher training, admission requirements for teacher training, considerable further training in the field of teachers and a national commitment to the development of skills in adapted training, which is quite clear that we are not getting to Norway properly, even though it has been an ideal since the 1930s. Thirdly, we want to create a better culture for learning by solving the ‘one-way’ school, by getting teachers to work in teams, and by creating a good evaluation culture in each school. That is why we also devote a great deal of effort to developing the skills of school leaders, resolving classification rules, etc., in order to improve the adaptability of training. And fourth, when you have knowledge, when you have competence, and when you have created a good culture for learning, you have to have opportunities to act and do something with the problems you see. That is why we are implementing a radical expansion of the local action space for school owners, schools and teachers. The most important thing in Norwegian school, in my opinion, is to bring up the so-called 'weakest' students so that they can do their own life later on in terms of education, work and quality of life. It is a myth that working with the weak students has to go beyond the strongest. But that means we have to take the great diversity of the students and parents group inwards and put more emphasis on equivalency rather than equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e451	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e454	I was actually going to deal with the Workers' Party's concern about cutting down in the school sector because of the government's starvation of the municipalities, but then I have registered that there was an extensive debate here in the Questionnaire yesterday, and that the Council of State, according to Today's Business Life, was tired of the whole topic. That is why I intend to deal with another matter, which makes it easier to see the government's responsibility for poorer offers to young people. The government employs 4,000 higher education colleges. First of all, there is a blow on the face of educational institutions, which have done a very good job ensuring that students conduct the studies. But above all, it is completely incomprehensible at a time when youth education is increasing and where young people have special problems in the labour market. The second point is that the government has also let the students pay dearly. Does the Council of State think that the level of loans and scholarships is too high when you're going to study full-time, because she gives the students a zero settlement three years in a row?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e461	I want to cancel that I'm tired of talking about resources, so I'll be happy to talk about it, even when it comes to primary school. What I was concerned about yesterday was the municipalities' own figures for resource use in school. As far as higher education is concerned, what we have now delivered is a very good budget for higher education. This means that approx. Half of the coal may enter higher education in Norway, and they may do so free of charge. It's becoming a special vision internationally. I am aware that the Labour Party overwhelms us when it comes to some elements in relation to the students and higher education in this budget, but I have a very good conscience, because for the students it is not only important what kind of study funding they have – which has improved – but also that they have a good study offer. What we have done, as opposed to what the Workers' Party has planned, is to fully finance the quality reform. The figure to complete the quality reform was clear before the change of government, but in a letter to the committee at the time, the then Minister of Education Trond Giske wrote that he was not prepared to complete the quality reform, and that this was something that could be done within the resources available. We have made more than SEK 1.1 billion available only as a result of the quality reform. It has given students a much better study offer. Then they get through faster, and then they also get smaller loans to carry with them later in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e474	We're on the same track. In fact, the Progress Party has reached a good agreement with the government parties – we have also achieved good results in the school sector – but, of course, we have not achieved all of our points and all of our wishes, and in particular this sector relates to higher education. So a line about it. Well, as we have now been informed, the government says that full funding has been continued for the quality reform of higher education. At the same time, however, a reduction has been introduced this year in both basic and actually related to the number of places of study, so that the consequence of the decrease we see this year, which is fixed to 78 million. kr, in a few years will be significantly larger if implemented and continued. Isn't this taking a step back, instead of ensuring full funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e481	Quality reform is still fully financed with 1,144 million. kr. In addition, the UH sector has contributed nearly 500 million in our period. kr as part of the financing system. We have very good capacity in higher education. ==References== 50 pst. the coal may commence in higher education. We are now implementing a quality reform that seems to deliver results already. That is, there will be room for more if more students get through in their normal time. Students have increased the cost standard by approx. NOK 10 000. There is no self-payment in higher education in Norway. We propose to legislate a free principle. I think I can assure you that this is becoming a rather rare island in the international picture, even if we compare with our nearest neighboring country, so I think it's a good budget for higher education. But I do not conceal that it has been very important this year also to give priority to the major school reform that is now to be implemented. That is why there is a proposal here for a great level of competence, already 500 million. kr in 2005. It is also indirectly allocated to the university and higher education sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e488	It's quite a claim to say that we have adjusted the cost standard by NOK 10 000. It did the opposition to the Government's wish, and the Government must be clear that we must not do this. So there was something the government was pushing on three years ago. But what's my question is going to higher education, and it goes on the proposal for a reduction in the basic allocation put in here, with approx. Seventy-eight million. to institutions. We have created a new funding system for higher education. It consists of basic appropriations and three variables. With this system, we have said that we no longer control the institutions through student numbers. But here the government is trying to cover for this cut by saying that we're going back to a measurement control. But that does not have the government, as we have said that we have adopted a new funding system. Why does the government try to cover this up by saying that they should cut the target at the same time, when they don't have the opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e495	In my opinion, we do not attack the funding system. I think, if I remember correctly, all the institutions in the university and higher education sectors are going in plus in this budget. But the authorities in Norway and the government have never, and I don't think the Stortinge have, abandoned the possibility of regulating capacity in the university and higher education sectors. Overall, this has been necessary for budgetary reasons, but I do not believe that they significantly affect the ability of young people to enter higher education. ==References== 50 pst. starts there. If you have met minimum requirements in Norway, you enter higher education. And now we are implementing the quality reform, which means that several students are carrying out in a normal time. It will also release capacity in the university and higher education sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e500	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e503	It is the Progress Party that ensures a continued lack of energy policy in Norway. It is the Progress Party that ensures a weakened labour market policy. It is the Progress Party that ensures a weakened local economy, a more unfair tax policy, a disastrous hospital policy, increased commuting costs, increased taxes for civil servants, increased tax for offshore workers, increased VAT for all. Yes, an unsocial budget is still unsocial and unfair. The Progress Party has total responsibility for the Government and for the 2005 budget, and they are boasting of this today. The last time the Government signed an agreement with the Advance Party, the agreement lasted one week, before they went out and broke the agreement. I am excited to see how long they remain responsible this time. It's oil wealth that saves Norway. We have a duty to create a policy for the time being. We have to use reality today to create a reality for the future, yes, for eternity. The government says no in its budget to give industry new power contracts. There is no objective for industry to have long-term agreements. It's too flexible, says the Government. Yes, we remember well the winter of 2002/2003 when the then oil and energy minister went out and encouraged the industry to stop to get Norwegian electricity in the Norwegian market. Isn't that flexibility? The government's promises from the last election campaign are now falling on stone's floor. In West Agder, for example, they promised to secure a net pay regime for seafarers. Airfield on the list was priority No. 1st@item: inlistbox They were supposed to secure the local hospital in Farsund. Yes, they even said yes to free buses in Kristiansand. Only the Workers' Party has followed up this in Stortinget. All parties on the Stortinget outside the Workers' Party wanted a new course in policy at the previous major elections. All went to the choice that they wanted a new course. The Norwegian voters voted so that when the Christian People's Party took sides, there became a bourgeois majority on the Stortinget. Bondevik formed on this basis – as well as a written agreement with the Right and Left, as well as an answer to some and fifty questions from the Progress Party, as well as a vote of confidence in the Stortinget from the Progress Party – Bondevik II Government. We in the Workers' Party stood up for what would come. Of course, we expected a right triangle of politics, and we have. In 2005, municipalities will have a dramatic decline in their revenues compared with the tasks required of them. The government and the Progress Party add to a policy that will lead to a privatisation wave in Norway that we have never seen before. The Government and the Advance Party have weakened the employment protection of the Labour Environment Act. The Government and the Advance Party have weakened the overtime provisions of the Working Environment Act. The baby plugin has been removed. Support for the school leisure system has been removed. The excavator support has been removed. The equity ratios for the elderly and the disabled have been reintroduced. The Labour Party fears a development away from what the United Nations says is the world's best country to live in. No one should believe that it has come of itself. Only political will and courage have brought Norway to the top of the world. There the Workers' Party wants to remain. We will ask for trust in the next harvest, and we are convinced that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e524	In the fall, before we started up at Stortinget, I visited many municipalities in Rogaland. I visited kindergartens and schools, old-age homes and day centres, farms and businesses, local politicians and representatives of the municipal administration. And I want to start my post by telling you about the main impression of these visits. It was that I met an incredible number of people who were happy in their village or town, positive and creative children and young people who liked their neighborhood and older people in nursing homes that were very happy. I met enthusiastic local politicians from all parties who make a fantastic effort for well-being every day. There must be no doubt that we have, and still should, a good public welfare offer. This gives quality of life to the community, together with voluntary intrusion and the spirit of hard work. There is a difference between a high standard of living and a high quality of life. We have to take care of the quality of life! The Christian People's Party is occupied with local democracy. However, in order for local politicians to be able to carry out their priorities for the benefit of their citizens, they need an economic space for action. Despite the fact that the current year's budget was the strongest strengthening of the municipalities in our country ever, I have received a clear message from our local politicians that this is not enough. The low interest rate and the removal of a number of earmarked grants have increased the scope for action of local politicians and improved the services of the population. But the challenges in towns and cities are many. We make an important contribution to care for the elderly, and we build kindergartens, because it is in the municipalities that welfare is created. Our trustees in the municipalities gave us a clear message in Stortinget. The municipalities have had a good real growth in free income in recent years, but many municipalities still have a tight economy. This situation has developed over the years and has a number of reasons. The Christian People's Party is committed to taking this situation seriously. It is therefore gratifying that the Government presented a budget proposing to increase transfers to the municipalities and that the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party led to a further strengthening of the local economy. It means more money for kindergartens, schools, culture and care. The state budget for the current year introduced a general VAT compensation scheme for municipalities. The purpose of this scheme is that VAT should not affect the choice of service provider by the municipality. This scheme is such that there are features in the framework transfers to the municipalities, and then the municipality's VAT expenditure is reimbursed. It is important that the extraction is done correctly, so that the municipalities do not lose out on the scheme. Therefore, the Government has to assess the extension related to the VAT compensation for two rounds, first between the State and the municipal sector after the last VAT account in February 2005 in order to ensure that the municipalities as a whole do not lose, and then, during the second round, correct the errors in relation to the estimates for each municipality, because no one has to lose to the scheme. We are now going to adopt the state budget for one year. But we have to think for more than one year at a time. Christian People's Party is the family party. We need to provide a safe framework for children's growth. We need to invest in quality in the training from primary school to university and research. In this budget, 500 million have been allocated. to develop the skills of primary school teachers. Strengthening the quality of higher education and increasing funding for research are forward-looking policies. We have to think about the jobs of the future. Christian People's Party is occupied with combating poverty good family policy quality in school and education welfare services where people live voluntary sector good business environment All of this has been well arranged by this government and by the year's budgetary settlement. Therefore, there is reason to say that we are well pleased in the Christian People's Party today. Finally, there has been a lot of talk about freedom from the Progress Party to the Christian People's Party, and the representative Carl I. Hagen has today openly said that this has been a conscious strategy on their part. Had there been a change in their policy on alcohol, pornography, ethical issues such as biotechnology and genetic engineering, the environment, aid to the world's poor, rural and agricultural policies, this would have been interesting. Yes, had it been in these important areas of the Christian People's Party a new policy by the Progress Party, this would have been joyous. But if this is only strategy, the freer can only stand in the yard for my part and for the Christian People's Party, because then the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e565	When I became a fiscal spokesman for the Workers' Party after the 2001 election, there were certain expectations in the circle of friends. And with some confidence that a Finance Minister from the Right, and with the Advance Party as the basis of the Government, would implement some of the things that were suggested before the elections, I said a little hilariously that the fees are going to be lower when this period is over, than they were when it started. It did not start completely wrong in relation to such a divination, although the Minister of Finance had to leave the coat until 1 April before the flight seat fee was removed. Then the alcohol tax was reduced somewhat. But then the jam was introduced a completely new excise duty, on HFC gas. As a result, a number of jobs in Fredrikstad are now disappearing out of the country. Then the tobacco tax was increased so much that it ate more than the reliefs given on alcohol. And now it is being taken seriously with the increase in VAT. 4 billion more people are going to pay for goods and services next year, thanks to the party that claims to be too just them. That the Progress Party would accept increased VAT in a budget settlement, may say everything about how far the Progress Party is willing to go to appear as the big bridge builder on the civil side. In last year's financial debate, Carl I. Hagen dismissed all responsibility for this government. This year he has resumed his father's role, with special care for the woes of the Christian People's Party. But what does the Progress Party get again? Indeed, in this debate they are getting commended and thanked for the flexibility and accountability of the budgetary negotiations, and they may be delighted with the happy Christian People's Party this year again because the deliberations of the Grand Prix were slightly brushing on the unsocial profile of the budget. That's all the Advance Party gets. The door to government cooperation is still bolted and locked. Yes, even the prospects of more committed cooperation seem completely closed. Not even a warning from Carl I. Hagen that the Party of Advancement has now seen the electoral basis of the Christian People's Party as important pastures, seems to get the Christian People's Party – and not the Left – to state what seems to be their highest political virtue, namely the freedom to use the opposition on both sides to win some of the political draws they lose close to the Government. That is how you can wonder if the Christian People's Party and the Left are quite satisfied that the three parties do not have a majority alone. For whom, then, would the central policy help them? Today even Right Jan Tore Sanner said that we can rejoice that there is room for more to the municipalities in the budget agreement with the Progress Party, both this year and next year. Yes, there is reason to rejoice over it, even though it is far too small in relation to the large cuts that most municipalities have to make next year – in school, in the care of the elderly and in the cultural appropriations. But if also the Right believes there is reason to rejoice that the municipalities get more than what the Government proposed, why on earth didn't the Government propose it in its budget? Because it's not that Right would like to, but didn't Left and Christian People's Party get with them? May Britt Vihovde said in the reply that the Left thrives with the partners they have in the Government. It's good to be comfortable with those you have, especially when others seem to be increasingly comfortable with this government. The government's spokespersons have spent a lot of time in this debate on the government option, or the "socialists", which they call us in the hope that there will be a proper alarming effect on the voters. The belief in a life after the election does not seem particularly strong in the government parties. I think the time of the very special political balancing art this government has made a virtue, that is, not wanting any clear majority basis in the Storting, ebbs out with this period. And that's good, because now a majority is needed that sets a stronger community as first priority in politics. There are no new billions of tax reliefs that will ensure the well-being and value creation. What has made the Nordic countries the safest and best society for people the most, with a competitive and innovative business life, is precisely that we have invested in strong communities, a fair distribution and an active industrial policy. It is the foundation of this model of society, built on cooperation, interaction and cohesion, which is threatened if we get more of the right-wing policy we have had in this period – a policy that creates conflicts where we need cooperation, which creates differences where we need greater justice, and which neglects an active enterprise policy because the toolbox is emptied of tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e582	Previous speakers, the representative Svein Roald Hansen, were heard as one of his former party traps that once – under the Bondevik I government – shot a government shift saying that we are already there. There's something called haughtiness. And I believe, sir. Hansen makes up the bill a little too early in this context, because the government is on the right track. I am convinced that many more are going to look forward to the elections next year. The government presented a good budget proposal in October. All the main lines have been continued in the agreement with the Progress Party within a responsible financial framework. Good economic governance, targeted fiscal policies and low interest rates resulting from this policy provide profitable jobs. And profitable jobs in turn provide more jobs and increased value creation that ensure well-being. The order of the factors is not random, but the results of a misguided and targeted policy. In areas that are important for the Left, the budget that is now being given a majority will lead to a better and more modern environmental policy, a better framework for entrepreneurs and small businesses and a more targeted policy for those outside. Never has more resources been spent on public welfare than today, and there has never been more spent on aid and help to the world's poor. It must be allowed to express that this very day is also a little special to me in my political life. When I was elected to Stortinget for the first time in the autumn of 1993, the struggle against the sharing model was my main concern. I remember all the times when it was quite lonely to vote over this proposal in the main hall. Through the Government's draft budget and the agreement in the UK with the Progress Party, the Left's 12-year fight against the sharing model will be crowned with victory – this unsocial system which, following the 1992 tax reform, hit small businesses with active owners particularly hard. A passive owner was rewarded by the authorities with a lower tax if he did nothing but go to the board meetings, while an active owner who was in everyday life with his employees was thus punished with a harder tax. In an attempt to create millimeters of justice, instead, they created miles of unfairness. Yes, I'm almost tempted to call it double unsocial! By removing the sharing model and by removing the investment fee, for which the Left and the Government have previously obtained a majority in this magnificence, the Left shows that we are not only a party fighting the small businesses' cause in party speeches and political rhetoric, but that actually delivers results that are marked in the everyday lives of the individual active owner. The 2005 draft State budget continues the agricultural policy pursued in recent years. The need for harmonisation and modernisation, while allowing greater scope for action for farmers to invest, means that Norwegian agriculture is more robust and is better equipped to meet international challenges than in the long term. If we are to succeed in meeting the values that agriculture adds to the Norwegian society, the resource base of the countryside needs to be used more widely for different industrial development and for the settlement of citizens even without direct connection to the primary industries. It is my ambition as Minister of Agriculture of the Left to pursue both an effective structurally adapted agricultural policy and, at the same time, to modernise and renew the policies pursued, on the basis of individual farms. Only in this way will we succeed in having a diverse and sustainable agriculture in the future. However, let there be no doubt that I still want a decentralised agriculture with a varied structure of use. It is important both for emergency reasons and for the need for safe food. Agriculture will also have an important place in future Norway. In order to succeed, increased diversity is essential. Each part of the country has different opportunities and different problems. Countries and municipalities need to be given greater opportunities for local adaptation of national instruments. They need to be more able to see agricultural policy in the context of other industrial policies and resource management, such as: travel life. For me and the Left and the Government, it means less designation, fewer national forms, fewer and simpler guidelines. This also means that several areas of agricultural legislation need to be less specific and adapted to industrial legislation in general. It shall be followed up in this budget. The 2005 budget is also a breach of a tradition of over 100 years old. This is the first budget proposal for the new Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I have no doubt that food policy will be central to the coming years. The change of name, to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, makes it apparent that the Government will see food policy in a wider sense. Increasing focus on food policy needs to pave the way for the development of new, good products that can become the hallmarks of a national strategy for the development of food nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e603	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e606	I must say it was with great wonder I heard Sponheim's posts here a short time ago. I wonder where the Council of State was when the negotiations with the Progress Party took place. He could not have been present at least when he was in the hall today and said that it is by means of the Progress Party, and the agreement with the Advance Party, that the sharing model is now being removed. In his eagerness to be constant and systematically disagreed and against the Workers' Party, I have to explain to the State Council Sponheim that it is actually the Workers' Party that supports the model of business taxation. It's not the Progress Party. As far as I know, they have stood outside the whole matter. It's not part of the agreement. So it's the Workers' Party that provides that majority on the tax side. So here it's obvious that the Minister of Agriculture is not at all up-to-date on what has happened in the Storting, and it's then necessary to use my line to clarify what is facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e613	The whole core of the question of whether it is now possible to remove the divisional model is that the marginal tax rates on labour and capital are being approximated. That's what matters. It's miles of unfairness the tax system has been. People with high capital incomes have received low taxes, 28 p.m., from the Workers' Party – and they have administered this for many years – while those who have earned the same amounts or less on labour input have received a much higher tax rate. That's the basis, and that's the very basis for removing the divisional model. That is what happens when one agrees with the Progress Party on how the tax rates are set for next year, and that is the basis. Then I also agree that – and I understand that will happen tomorrow – legislation will lay a basis for other aspects of the tax regime, and that is good. So the sum is that after the Left's 12-year fight to get rid of the divisional model, it gets removed. It has been against the will of the Workers' Party for all years, and it is fundamentally fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e620	The agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party resulted in a 1 pst reduction in food VAT. But in relation to the government's starting point, which would increase it by 1 pst, this actually gets a proceeds of 1.2 billion kroner, which consumers will appreciate. This, of course, is to benefit consumers. I would like to remind you that on 1 July 2001, we got a halve of the food tax in Norway, and 75 pst. of this benefit to consumers. But the price evolution of groceries since then has been 50 pst. higher than the general price trend. I would like to remind the Council of State that earlier this year he promised margin surveys and to go through all stages of the food chain to see who has increased their margins most. When will these surveys be on the table, and how will he ensure that food tax reduction benefits consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e627	It is true that when the food tax was halved as a result of the so-called Plaza negotiations between the centre parties and the Workers' Party some years back, it immediately had an effect on the food prices that corresponded to the reduction, between 9 and 10 pst. After some years and there have been many speculations and opinions etc. that this effect has been lost, we have ordered and will receive in a few days a so-called margin study. I'm going to have it in place during the December month, and it's going to tell us in a systematic way where it's become of those margins. As far as we know, and we already have a significant number base, 75 pst is. the effect of the reduction in food VAT a few years ago has been seen in consumers. It's not a bad result, and I hope it can be confirmed by the margin polls. Then we will use the same pressure to ensure that the further reduction that is now coming benefits consumers and nobody else.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e636	I want to take the leader of the party that is glued to the government to something far more ground-based than celebrating the abolition of the sharing model – the commitment to organic farming. The Minister of Agriculture has had a lot more ambition than removing the sharing model. He has had great visions on behalf of organic farming. I don't know, because it wasn't mentioned, whether the party leader is equally pleased that in his time as Minister of Agriculture, we have raised organic production in Norwegian agriculture from 2.5 pst. to 3.4 pst. We have two challenges. We have a challenge in terms of production, and we have a challenge in terms of disposal. This meets the Government with a $5 million bill. to organic food in schools and kindergartens, which is a good measure, but when it's alone, it looks a little small. What is the strategy of the leader of the Left, the Minister of Agriculture, to raise Norwegian organic production to 10 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e645	Let me first state that I am out enough to invite the SV's representative to celebrate that we have been rid of the sharing model. In this way, SV can also participate in celebrating that we remove the greatest inequality that has existed in the Norwegian tax system, that is, the one between those who live on income from capital and those who live on their labour income. It should also be able to attend and celebrate. So to organic farming. It is such that the Storting has set a target of 10 pst. of our areas are to be converted into organic farming. We were up in barely 4 pst at the turn of the year. It's going well in the right direction. In some states, in some parts of the country, it's going very well. South-Trundellag is in this way our exemplary state. The worst is Rogaland, which in many ways is our best agricultural community. It might be a relationship. We're working everywhere to get faster in such a direction. But the important thing is to get this driven out of the market. That's what's our biggest challenge, not to increase the area of production, but that consumers actually demand organically produced products. That's where we put the strategy, and that's where we put the increased resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e654	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e657	First, I would like to refer to the proposal on page 209 of the Budget. S. I, which is a proposal to postpone the introduction of VAT for the Adult and Lysebu, and then quote from what was mentioned in the director of the Evening Post recently: ‘It is when bureaucrats are funny without initially wanting to do so, that they really move into the entertainment industry.’ From the first day of the year in which the Swedish people in particular are to be informed about how and why Norway broke out of the Union in 1905, the Voksenåsen, Norway’s national gift to Sweden, is to pay VAT for the operation. The same shall be true of Lysebu, the Danish parallel.’ Denmark received Lysebu as recognition of what the Danes did for us during the occupation, and the Swedes received the Voksenåsen for the same reason.’ In the same director, it says: "It is both petty, foolish and ridiculous to begin to demand back the flicks of these gifts." In any case, it is very disappointing that the members of the Nordic Council, Inge Wohnning and Arne Lyngstad, have not followed up on their own request for VAT deferral for Lysebu and Voksenåsen. But the proposal is there, and we shall vote on it later today. The 2005 state budget has a direction that makes it clear that we are facing different choices over the next few years. Effective State ownership is an important instrument to safeguard the Community's interests. It contributes, inter alia, to: to promote policy objectives in rural policy, culture or health. In addition, state ownership ensures that the community has the right to have natural resources, so that they can be exploited for the benefit of the people, and that we receive income for the development of welfare schemes that we all benefit from. However, developments in recent years have gone in the wrong direction. A number of State activities are separated into separate companies, subject to competition or fully or partly privatised. The last is that the country is now to sell its own buildings in order to lease them back by private individuals, solely for the purpose of transferring the assets of the community to private stakeholders. This has happened without us having had a fundamental discussion about which tasks the State is to perform and how these are to be carried out. It is vital that we, as we are here, retain overall governance of development. This does not mean that all services are to be done under public authority, but that we have clear responsibilities. We need to have an opinion on how to organise tomorrow's Norway, and not as the right side, support random individual measures that will actually lead to a large-scale cessation of the Community's values and an undermining of the welfare state we have built up. In today’s Norway, competition has become the new motto, but for us, it is important to stress that competition is only one of several possible instruments to maximise the use of society’s resources. Long-term public ownership, research and development, innovation, learning, skills development and economies of scale are in many cases far more important alternatives than competition. Nevertheless, we believe that competition as an instrument is not appropriate in areas such as health, care and education. In these areas, a social assessment must be overarching, and elections must take place on the basis of policy priorities. As a result of the separation of public sector enterprises, governance has become a new growth industry. It is important to think carefully about when to appoint members of the board of directors of public enterprises. Business knowledge is important, but it is at least equally important that board members have knowledge of society and community interests. Publicly appointed members of the Governing Board shall take care of the interests of all of us and not merely refer to the financial performance of their business in the narrowest sense. The Labour Party believes it is absolutely necessary to maintain the rule of law to ensure that elected representatives are effectively involved in social development and to allow for overall assessments based on social needs. When privatisation and outsourcing become the most important, consideration for the community is thrown into the boat. Unfortunately, we see the direction of exactly this in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e692	When we see developments in the Norwegian economy, in Norwegian business and in the Nordics most throughout 2004 and the outlook for 2005, it is only to note that the economic policy of the Government has been very successful. More people now come to work, and more people get their jobs secured. The economy is characterised by optimism, increased profitability and positive prospects, and ordinary people benefit from low interest rates, real wage growth and low inflation and have had a significant improvement in purchasing power and the ability to create their own well-being. For the opposition, there has been a tendency that the recession in 2002 is alleged to be caused by the Cooperative Government, while the boom we are experiencing today is said to be a result of external circumstances. Both parts are wrong. When the Cooperative Government took over after Stoltenberg in 2001, the framework conditions for business were dramatically deteriorated. Wage growth was very high. The interest rate was 5 pst. higher than today and twice as high as in the EU, and the basis for strengthening the krone price was laid. Stoltenberg achieved at the top of the whole to give business the tax boost of the times. There is little doubt, therefore, that the downturn that occurred in 2002, the number of enterprises going over the top and 100 000 people subsequently became unemployed, was largely caused by policy choices made before 2002. The co-operation administration has made tough budgetary priorities and improved the framework conditions for business over the last three years. The budgets have been responsible and have laid the basis for interest reductions and lower rates of exchange. There has been considerable tax relief, especially for business. There has been a clear price change in relation to the government of Stoltenberg, and this is also clear from the situation in the Norwegian economy today. I am particularly pleased with the industrial policy in this budget. Although traditional industrial policies play second violin in relation to the general framework conditions, it is evident that such measures are also important for business. The Government follows up the Maritime Communication and harmonises the level of taxation with the EU. The maritime business tax is reduced by 110 million. and make Norway a better place to localise such activities. The level of support for Norwegian seafarers, which has almost tripled since the government of Stoltenberg crashed, is now up to 1060 million. kr. Maritime business in Norway is a world leader and a significant contributor to value creation in this country. The cluster comprises nearly 70000 jobs in total, of which 18 000 are seafarers. I am very pleased that the Cooperation Government is bringing about a historical improvement in the framework conditions for this industry. Four national seed funds are established located for Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim and Oslo in connection with the university and research environments. With regard to the access to capital for business in Norway, the main functioning of the capital market is that of the capital market. However, for enterprises in the start-up phase, at the intersection of publicly funded research and private business, seed schemes and other instruments are needed. The establishment of these four funds in the largest university cities is a very positive measure. Building loan guarantees are also provided for the shipbuilding industry, with a framework of DKK 2.5 billion. This will strengthen international competitiveness and have a major impact on many smaller cornerstones and yards in the districts. The Petroleum Tax System is being put in place to increase competition on Norwegian pedestal and to stimulate exploration and tail-hanging production. It is of national importance that the possibilities of this industry are also fully exploited. The company tax is proposed to be returned to the municipalities. A lot of positive can be said about this, but the most important thing is that the conversion gives municipalities a clear benefit from contributing to value creation. Appropriations for research and the traditional instrument will be increased in 2005. Research appropriations in Norway increased from DKK 11.7 billion in 2002 to DKK 14.2 billion in 2005. The investment in business research is continued through the very well-functioning tax FUNN scheme, which in 2005 is expected to provide tax reductions related to research of DKK 1.8 billion. The point of these measures, together with economic policy and tax reduction, is to stimulate increased value creation. Valuation is the basis for all well-being, whether in private or public terms. The Government’s value creation policy finances continued growth in public welfare schemes. It contributes to the business going down. It causes unemployment to decline, and it gives families lower interest rates and greater freedom of choice. The result of the government’s value creation policy is that Norway becomes a better country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e720	Sick leave goes down. It is a result of the IA agreement and an example of the functioning of the agreement concluded between employees, employers and the Government in order to reduce sick leave. It gave Stortinget a check of not less than DKK 2.5 billion in the middle of the budget negotiations and made the comparison much easier. Nevertheless, the agreement is broken. It's quite eye-catching. Gradually, there are many good examples of the functioning of the agreement. One example is from Peterson, Moss. Peterson in Moss had a sick leave of over 10 p.m. before concluding an agreement with their employees. Today, sick leave is down to 5 p.m., and they expect to get even lower in a short time. Self-reports have been extended to 24 days a year, but short-term absences are actually so low that it can hardly be measured. The companies and employees are very satisfied. The result is impressive for all parties. In the same enterprise, logistical costs are now higher than compensation of employees. That's why roads and railways are so important to keep jobs. The Workers' Party has kept what they promised in the National Transport Plan, and has granted NOK 1 billion more to transport in the budget, so that we can get better roads and better railways faster. The government is not even able to keep its own promises in relation to the national transport plan. A little bit is added to the agreement, but it becomes so puzzled compared to all the road projects that the Progress Party has proposed here in this Chamber, E6 from north to south, new and better E18 from a to a, etc. No, it won't be much to go to the election campaign with the Progress Party after this. Human beings are the country's most important resource. It's not the oil, although we can get the impression of it right now. For individuals, work is the most important safeguard against exclusion and poverty. Work provides the ability and resources to use. Work makes you feel useful. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that the high unemployment rate is a waste of resources. We believe that the government is doing too little to get more people to work. That the Progress Party is not particularly concerned with the unemployed is not unknown, because when did the Progress Party actually propose more action places, if they have ever done so? When the representative Sandberg thinks that people would rather have permanent work, that's right. However, in order to get the permanent job, many have to go through measures, retraining or education. Unemployment is high. The government's forecasts are that unemployment will remain high. The number of people with disabilities is increasing sharply and is now close to 90 000. The number of underemployed persons is increasing. The number of disability pensioners is increasing. For individuals and for society there is no greater waste than this. The Government and the Advance Party are completely passive without using the existing instruments. Their contribution is to tighten schemes and benefits for the unemployed. If you screw it up, they'll find a job, it's the prescription. The working party has a working and business package in the budget of a total of NOK 2.7 billion. That would give a lot of new jobs. The Labour Party indicates that there is evidence that labour market measures and education make a significant contribution to getting to work. Therefore, the Workers' Party will introduce a guarantee to ensure that long-term unemployed young people aged 20 to 24 are provided with a job, education or labour market measure. That's why we want to increase the number of action sites by 3,000. We'll give NOK 4 billion more to the municipalities than the government's proposal. It would mean 7 000 new jobs in health, care and schooling in municipalities, work for women who are either underemployed today, have lost their jobs or are at risk of doing so. It will be a mistake, as the representative Sandberg claims, that the rapporteurs of the Labour Party do not give priority to care, school and kindergarten. That's what's going to be jobs of. The agreement is worth 800 million. NOK to the municipalities for the next year. So that's going to be equal to-- let's say that's going to be equal to-- let's say that's going to be equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's equal to-- let's say that's 600,000 kroner will be quite insignificant when the municipality is missing 15 million. kr to balance. We had a choice. We could have prioritised work and well-being instead of tax relief to the richest. But that's not what Stortinget is going to do tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e746	Where is the district profile in this budget? I cannot see that neither the original budget of the Government nor the budget now blessed by the Progress Party have any kind of district policy in itself. It was probably not expected either, with a continuous double right-hand twist. I can start with the smallest in the country. As far as kindergartens are concerned, I want to say one thing, and that's that the government is training kindergarten development. The next thing I want to talk about is the school leisure system, and it's very related to district policy. Many commuters to work, perhaps both one and two hours, and then it's important that parents have a safe place for the kids after school. Unfortunately, many school leisure arrangements have become so expensive that parents cannot afford to avail themselves of the offer. The basis is deliberate policies of the current government and the Progress Party, with annual cuts. But where are those who think they are the family party? I'm calling for the Christian People's Party. When we then know that the right-hand alliance has tightened the tax deduction and the cost money for the commuters, this is a big deal for people who have chosen to live on the outskirts of Norway and work elsewhere. For information: for an oil worker, the loss of the cost will amount to anything from 1000 to 13000 kroner. This tells us that people are almost forced to move to the center. The Labour Party will not be involved in depopulation of parts of the country. That's why we're willing to take these deductions from the commuting. Neither can it be true that students have to pay their right-hand taxes. The government has not adjusted student loans and scholarships from the loan fund. There is little opportunity for more student homes, and now the trip fee is cut. The travel scholarship scheme is one of the most district friendly for young people who are far away from their family. The working party is against these cuts. We have several places in the country that have benefited from the balancing support for electricity customers with extra-high grid rentals. The equalization aid of 40 million. kr has made the electricity bill a little cheaper for both households, municipalities and businesses in several areas of the country. Now this grant, which the Workers' Party fought for, has been removed. For some, this represents 4 to 7 more cents per cent. kWh on the power bill. Unfortunately, this also affects the districts. The hydropower comes from the districts, but it is nevertheless the districts that have to pay the most for the power transmissions. I can't stop mentioning the attitude of the Government regarding the Rana society and the power contracts that expire in April 2005. What has the government done to find solutions, so that the powerful industry can not pay over four times what they pay today in electricity costs, which means closure? Is it as with the differentiated employer fee that other parties need to find opportunities and solutions? What is the year 2005 going to be like for the municipalities? With 800 million. kr in the increase of the budget to free resources, the jam does not become fat in Kommune-Norway. Well, the municipalities get some money to pay off debts for this year, but it doesn't help the operation for next year. The municipalities will have to continue the cuts, and more and more offers we know will be exposed to competition and privatised through cooperation on the right. The working party has, on its alternative budget, DKK 3.5 billion for the allocation of free resources and SEK 0.6 million. kr for ear marking. For my municipality, Fauske, this would have given about $6 million. NOK until next year's operation, in return for only 1.3 million. kr through the conciliation. If the municipality had chosen to use the money to pay off debt, they would still have more money left than they now get in 2005. Therefore, this is rather a bad Christmas gift from the Government and the Advance Party. Still, work, education and health are the most important things for the Workers' Party, and at the same time we are going to put culture on the map, with the escalation of the cultural promise until 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e774	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e777	Within the school area, the Progress Party has achieved two important things through the budgetary agreement with the government parties. Firstly, the programme for upgrading schools continues. Instead of zero fresh funds for further efforts to improve the working environment of Norwegian school students, there has been one billion to upgrade schools. This task is the priority of the Advance Party. In the 2003 budgetary agreement with the Government, there was also an additional billion. We have also noticed that there was a billion more in 2004, when the Government and the Labour Party entered into a budgetary agreement. I realized that the outcome of the negotiation was satisfied with the Workers' Party, as the Progress Party is now satisfied with an additional billion for school upgrading in 2005 – in fact an additional billion for the municipal sector as well. In addition to the money, we will receive feedback from Stortinget – this time not as an unspecified order in the throne, but as a cancellation earmarked the municipality's 2006 bill. The Progress Party is pleased that this withdrawal is now to be specifically linked to the provisions of the Training Act on the Learning Environment for Students. The learning environment also includes the working environment. The party of progress assumes that the state of school buildings and school facilities must and must be such that the legal requirements for the working environment are met, including for students. Secondly, the Progress Party has negotiated an agreement that independent schools, private schools, will receive rent subsidies. This has been an important principle for students and parents who have chosen private schools, and of course for everyone who owns and runs private schools. I have also seen that there has been an important matter for the Government, an important part of the Sem Declaration, and therefore it is double-greeding when the Progress Party can now, through the Budget Agreement, help the government parties to put this important principle in place as of the school year 2005/2006. In the budget agreement there is also a joyful new arrangement for the Norwegian Church. The Church has long pointed to major challenges related to the maintenance of church buildings. The Church experiences the same thing as the municipal and state sector — a large backlog in the necessary maintenance. Operation and maintenance have been added to municipalities. Therefore, a tight community economy cannot in any way cover the large maintenance tasks of church buildings. Following the pattern of the school-building upgrading system, the Progress Party has been introduced through the budget agreement a system of interest-rate compensation for the upgrading of church buildings. It's added 500 million. kr. in 2005. From the point of view of the Progress Party, this should be the start of a system which should continue for several years. The unmet maintenance needs of church buildings are much greater. The Progress Party is pleased that the Christian People's Party has changed its view of the arrangement. From the Christian People's Party we were met with reactions such as that this is a stunt from the Advancement Party and not well enough thought out. We are pleased that the Christian People's Party has now thought well through the proposal, and has accepted it and included it in the agreement with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e794	The majority on Stortinget will grant $12 million. kr to «Project 46664 Tromsø» today, an event that places HIV and AIDS on the agenda. I am pleased that this is being adopted, but it is sad that it is not a unanimous big thing that today says yes. 46664 is the prison number of Nelson Mandela. We all know Nelson Mandela's brave struggle for justice and freedom and for apartheid. Through active action he became a symbol of freedom and justice. Nelson Mandela is going in front of this project and this concert. Why is Nelson Mandela doing this? Well, because it's useful, because the biggest challenge we have to address the fight against the HIV/AIDS epidemic is information, competence and putting HIV and AIDS on the agenda. So let's do that with this project. 42 million people today are infected with HIV and AIDS. Every day, another 14,000 are infected. Norway has a great international responsibility. ‘Project 46664 Tromsø’ is not an event but an entire process. Tromsø shall be a host on behalf of Norway for a major international event, a concert to be transferred to more than 50 countries, with conferences, cultural activities, seminars and collection action for HIV/AIDS prevention in Africa. «Project 46664 Tromsø» is currently being adopted against the vote of the Government Parties. This is sad, sad because the government is not able to lift its gaze. Now that this is adopted, we have to go together to raise this project to become larger than itself. The job is now starting. I hope and believe that the government is involved, even if you couldn't find money for this. I hope so, because this is important – not to us, but to the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e805	I had today a question to the Minister of Finance about why the Government will not listen to business when they present what requirements for improved framework conditions are needed to stop flagging. His answer was that at least they did not ask for the Central Party's alternative budget. When the Council of State responds this way, it must be either because he does not know what business demands have been placed on the Grand Duchy in the budgetary procedure or because he does not know our alternative. In fact, the business requirements are met in our option, point by point. We've been listening to business all along. The business community has asked for increased investment on roads and broadband, and they have received this in our alternative. They have said that they want the wealth tax on working capital, as they have in Sweden, we have received that in writing from all business organisations. Governments deny that they have said that, but that is the case. They have said that it is negative for investment in industry to eliminate house taxes. We've been listening to business. They have asked that it should not be more difficult and expensive to permit workers and that the cost of sick pay for employers should not be higher. We've fulfilled that in our budget. Of course, with regard to the net pay system for seafarers, shipping companies and seafarers have said that we must keep it. The government is in favour of the opposite. The business community has said that Innovation Norway is very important, and it is important that they get yes when you get there, but then they have to get enough money. These funds have been allocated to the Centre Party. Representatives of the tourism industry and the fishing industry have said what they are in and what can happen if they do not have better framework conditions. It is provided for in the budget of the Centre Party. The economy naturally fears an increase in the price of the crown. They've seen that the crown price is so devastating. Specialists and economists have said that the government is responsible for the high krone price we had in 2002 and 2003, which lost business for equity. It's better now, but it should just be missing. The industry is asking for predictability. As regards the permit law, an agreement has been concluded with the Progress Party for six months. That's bad predictability. The business community has asked for the policy contained in the Central Party's alternative budget. So the government's people are afraid that there will be an increase in the crown price of this budget, that one dollar extra use of oil money will be dangerous, and that it will give an extra price increase and a higher dollar price. We've got this checked through the SSB, which has calculated it and said there's no increase in the dollar or interest rate from this budget. These horrors can one day just forget. On the other hand, there is an increase in employment and value creation. That's what the Center Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e820	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 4. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e833	At this point, Stortinget is already ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e840	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Finance at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 6 October 2004 on the Government's proposals for the State budget and on the national budget for 2005 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e849	Before we start voting on case No. 2 the Chairman of the Committee has asked for the word to correct a marginal error in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e852	I mean, budget-inner. S. In the recommendation of the Committee on page 258, VIII, reference is made to ‘Section 9a of the Training Act’, but reference should be made to the Chapter of the Training Act. 9a.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e857	It will be corrected, and the President will repeat the information when we get so far in voting, so no one should be in doubt. Then we start with the voting under case No. 2, which relates to the budget-inside. S. I. A total of 24 proposals have been put forward for this matter. Proposals Nos. 1–23 is included in the vote, while proposal No. 24 is distributed in the hall. The proposals which have been put forward are as follows: the proposals No 1 and 2, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 3, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 4, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 5, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 6, by Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 7, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Committee on Progress and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 8, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on the proposals No. 9–16, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, proposals Nos. 17 and 18, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 19 and 20, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 21 and 24, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Central Party, proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from Steinar Bastisen on behalf of the Coastal Party In the vote that follows, the President will start with the proposals from the smallest fraction and move forward after increasing size. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 22 and 23, from the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e1130	The proposals are then put to the vote. 21 and 24, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e1363	The proposals are then put to the vote. 19 and 20, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e1587	The proposals are then put to the vote. 17 and 18, from the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e1936	The vote on the motions for resolutions will take place at the next voting time. 9–16, from the Advance Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e1993	It is then voted on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set up a sample to review the level of social security benefits on the basis of the SIFO cost of living calculations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2008	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government to assess the possibility of initial establishment of a document fee and to present it in the context of the 2005 Revised National Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2023	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that health businesses have their balance sheets in place by the end of 2006.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2038	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the laboratory and x-ray activities of health care establishments keep accounts and budgets for their activities in such a way that comparison of costs can become a reality between private and public activities.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2053	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2272	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government not to include the host municipality grant in the framework grant.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2288	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce a youth guarantee to ensure that all young people under the age of 25 are guaranteed the right to work, training or action.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2309	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2517	It is expected here from the time of the vote and the vote that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2530	We shall then vote on the other Roman numerals in the motion for a resolution of the vote. When all minority proposals have now been rejected and the setting of the Roman Num I framework has been adopted, the President expects that the other Roman numerals can be voted on collectively and that no party feels the need to vote against – this, of course, under the clear condition that such voting is not used against any party in retrospect, and that the position of the parties to the individual Roman numerals is reflected in the comments in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2624	Here the President draws attention to the correction made by the Chairman of the Committee before we start voting on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Under Roman numeral VIII, the reference shall be to the Training Act Chapter. 9a, and not § 9a as it says in the text. Morten Lund, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2629	I want a separate vote on Roman number VI. The centre party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2636	Then we have to be able to do it so that we're going to go first over II to even V and VII to even XV, and then over VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2653	Case No. 3 applies to budget revenue. S. No 1st@item: inlistbox A total of 22 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1, 6, 11 and 16, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 2, 7, 12 and 17, tabled by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 3, 8, 13 and 18, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 4, 9, 14 and 19, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals No. 5, 10, 15 and 20, by Steinar Bastesen on behalf of the Coastal Party, proposal No. 21, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 22, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party In the case of further voting, the President will refer to Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. It appears that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 24 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Such a decision was taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the minority proposals currently put forward will not be put to the vote and will therefore lapse because they are based on framework amounts other than those currently adopted. It concerns the proposals Nos. 1 to 20 in the position to be voted on and relating to the Framework Areas 19, 20, 23 and 24. Proposals Nos. 21 and 22 are independent of the frame, so these will be over. The President then first refers to voting on the framework-independent minority proposals. There is a vote on proposal No. 22 from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and propose exemptions from property taxes and inheritance taxes on working capital in accordance with the Swedish model.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2696	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 21, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government to design rules for protection within the shareholder model so that the basic fund certificate receives a protection rate of 2 percentage points above the protection rate of shares.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2711	We're going to vote on the proposal for a decision in the vote, and we're going to start with the framework area 19. In this area there are minority proposals from the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party – these are the proposals No. One, two, three, four, five. As the President has explained, these proposals lapse in line with the provisions of paragraph 19 of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e2927	There are proposals from the Workers' Party, from the Progress Party, from the Socialist Left Party, from the Centre Party and from the Coastal Party for Framework Section 20 – these are the proposals No. 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, which are now going to cancel out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e3080	We have now reached Framework Area 23, and it is under this area that the Stortinget will adopt the tax and tax rules and their revenue for next year. For Framework Area 23, there are proposals from the Workers' Party, from the Progress Party, from the Socialist Left Party, from the Centre Party and from the Coastal Party – these are the proposals No. 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15. These proposals also lapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e8767	Then there is still to be a vote over the frame area 24. There are minority proposals from the Labour Party, from the Progress Party, from the Socialist Left Party, from the Centre Party and from the Coastal Party – these are the proposals No. 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20. These proposals are also obsolete.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e9189	During the debate, Jan Tore Sanner put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:9 [[2004-2005]] Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-25-2.ana.ud2633e9261	There is no record.
