ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e70	They called for alternates, for South Trondelag County Anne Kathrine Slungård and for Eastfold County Ulf Leirstein, have taken their seats. From 9 June to 11 June in order to take part in a seminar in Almaty, Kazakhstan after an invitation to speak, an application has been submitted by the Workers' Group for leave to the representative Kjell Engebretsen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Sverre Myrli, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e96	Swearing Myrli is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15 to the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e114	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3098]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e130	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each and the Center Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. For the time being, the relevant Council of State has not been put in place, but the President nevertheless suggests that we start today's debate, and then she will come soon. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e143	The issue we are dealing with today has its background in comments and proposals made during the budget procedure of the Grand Duchy. In the context of the budgetary procedure, a majority, all except the Government Parties, supported a proposal that the Government should present a separate case to the Stortinget by 1 March 2004 on the assessment of the economic framework conditions for Norwegian film policy. It focused on the desire to maximise private risk capital, the continuation of the ticket scheme and the review of the tax and VAT regime. The message that was submitted corresponds little to the mission that the majority of the population gave. Then the Minister of Culture has also expressed her little desire to present a big message in such a short time. She also mentioned her own message as a thin tile. This is a point of view which I as the rapporteur share. During the examination of these economic framework conditions for the Norwegian cinema and film industry, it has been clearly seen that the industry has been very united in its views. Both producers, directors, actors, etc. it seems to agree that the maximum predictability of the aid schemes is desired, that 6 pst is requested. VAT, and the desire to set up and encourage foreign production and long-term investors to be attracted to the industry. In the case of production aid and ticket support schemes, the majority notes that there is a constructive dialogue in this area and expresses the hope of finding agreed solutions. It is the view of the majority that the arrangements in place should not be changed in a significant way, because the arrangements appear to have the intended effects. The majority of aid schemes are to be evaluated after five years, as set out in the decision of the State budget in 2001. However, for the Progress Party, we are opening up the possibility that, to the extent that it is appropriate to change the current arrangements before this period is over, this should be done by moving funds from the consultant assessed to market-assessed aid. There is also a minority in the Committee in favour of setting up two separate budget lines for ticket support and film production on the State budget and making ticket support an estimate. The party of progress is not in this minority. With regard to the wish of the majority of the population to assess VAT rates and tax rules, this has not been answered to a large extent in the notification. The majority note that the Government does not want to go into a separate VAT regulation for the film and cinema industry. Neither the industry nor the majority agree. From the SVs, the Central Party and the Advance Party, we believe that a 6 pst could be introduced. VAT for the cinema and film industry with effect from 1 January 2005. We have noticed that the Workers' Party wants this to be introduced earlier, from 1 November 2004. However, I hope that the Workers' Party will provide its subsidiary support for an introduction from 1 January. The system of not being within the VAT system today involves a lot of extra work in film and cinema because the secondary market is subject to VAT. The practical consequence is that you get a deduction of VAT only for some of the expenses that you have. It's also right to draw parallels to NRK, which have got 6 pst. VAT, which reduces significantly the input tax. It would therefore make sense to introduce a general 6 pst. VAT rate for film and cinema. As we have learned, the industry believes that it has calculated itself until this will be a promise of approx. Forty million. kr for the industry as a whole. However, it must be clarified that for some of the municipal cinemas, those that are not within the VAT system you have per year. today, it may have marginal negative consequences. The Centre Party and SV together with the Advance Party request an evaluation after a minimum of three years. In practice, this evaluation may be in line with the evaluation of the ticket support and production aid scheme. As far as incentive schemes are concerned, the majority have noted that the notification of the gross domestic product does not discuss this in a small way. The majority believe that it would be appropriate to put in place incentives to attract the production of foreign films to Norway. This is done in a large number of other countries, and Norway will be in a hurry if such incentives are not put in place. If we can manage to attract foreign output to Norway, it will have more positive effects. Of course, it will be very important for Norwegian filmmakers to establish contacts with foreign production environments, and in addition, through such productions, we will gain know-how that could lift the industry in Norway. Another aspect is, of course, that non-resident production in Norway will generate turnover both in the Norwegian industry and in the individual local environments where production will be. If we were to achieve this in such a way that we are producing countries for a large international production, this could have positive advertising effects for Norway also in trade and tourism. Reference is made here to the effects of the "Lover of the Rings" production and to the fact that a number of other countries have had smaller productions from which they have had good advertising effects. It is therefore a great pleasure to note that a majority of the Committee asks the Government to provide a review of various measures that can contribute to more foreign production in Norway, and refers to both reimbursement schemes, tax advantages and tax credits. It is important that this is not a case that is put at the bottom of a drawer. It is therefore important that we get this for treatment in the current ageing period. I would also like to refer to the Committee's position, which also deals with some comments on regional film funds and on advertising. With this, I address the minority proposals on which the Progress Party is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e183	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e186	With films such as ‘The Beautiful Country’, ‘Salmer from the Kitchen’, ‘Bare Bea’, ‘Buddy’ and many others, Norwegian films have recorded both the number and the audience. There are movies in different songs. Some are for a broad audience, others for a smaller audience, but they are equally important. A large environment is needed to make films: actors, producers, directors and film workers, to name a few. Film is a good example of interaction and team spirit. But Norwegian film is also something more. It is an important form of expression for Norwegian language, culture and the dissemination of values. Norwegian film is important, not least since there are so many American Hollywood productions in cinema. This is part of the back cover for the matter we are going to deal with today. The main question is: how should we maintain and further develop production and the success of Norwegian film? That is why we proposed in the 2004 budget that we should smog while the iron is hot. We thought it was natural to review the support system. We were somewhat disappointed when the answer came through St. Report. No 25 for 2003–04, on the framework conditions for film production. It may seem that the Minister of Culture and Film are not entirely compatible, and then the will to bet is lacking. Not only does the notification not give any greater promise, but the Council of State has cut the Norwegian film production support both in the state budget before Christmas and now in the revised budget. During the work on the cultural message, the reactions of the government parties on the cultural vows of the Workers' Party, SVs and the Centre Party were that we were running populist overbidden policies, or that we were kicking in open doors. In the notes to this Communication, government parties do not include at least 20 long films each year and 25 pst. the cinema search shall be in Norwegian films. I cannot see that this is irresponsible surrender policy, unless the government intends to cut production support. On the other hand, I can't see that this is turning open the doors. Then it would have been more timely to be on the priorities. Fortunately, we stopped the proposals for cutting in the film support. There was one of many things that had to be put in place before the Workers' Party entered into conciliation with the Government on the revised national budget. And now it says about the questions about the framework conditions. One of the main measures not included in the Government’s notification was the imposition of VAT on the cinema and film industry. The government is pushing this forward by saying that this should come into a subsequent assessment. Fortunately, a majority of the Committee, consisting of SV, the Centre Party, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party, wants such an introduction. We want the rate to be 6 pst. This is also the requirement of an overall industry, both the association of Norwegian film and television producers, Film & Cinema and the association of Norwegian film agencies. The introduction of VAT has many advantages. The VAT system, as it works today, makes a lot of extra work for producers, which must distinguish between revenue from the cinema and secondary markets, such as: sale and rental of VHS and DVD. In today’s system there is only a deduction of the input charge for use in the chargeable part. This is complicated and has also been the subject of legal assessment. Now we get cleaned up in this once and for all. Furthermore, for the cinemas now, there will be equal possibilities of deduction independent of ownership. For cinemas such as: is AS, there will now be opportunities to deduct VAT in operation and investment. These are improvements that will work positively. Another important element is that the NRK has 6 pst. VAT, with full deduction. But the most important thing is that this will improve the economy for featuremakers. We asked the department to figure this out, but unfortunately they couldn't. They refer to the calculation PricewaterhouseCoopers has done for the industry, based on the 2002 figures. This shows that manufacturers will save 19.2 million. kr. This will contribute to more films and increased production. For the country, it is estimated that there will be a reduction in the tax of approx. Sixteen million. kr. This isn't much, and it's hard to understand the government's reluctance to do this. So to the discussion about the timing of the introduction. From the Labour Party we want to get started as quickly as possible. That is why we are proposing the introduction of VAT from 1 November this year. The benefits of it are more. It does not give book losses of taxes to the State and it follows the VAT reporting periods. We also want to make sure that it is implemented, and that under no circumstances can it be postponed by the Government. We had hoped that the other parties that are for VAT would be involved, but they wouldn't. We will vote in a subsidiary way for the SV, the Centre Party and the Procedural Party's proposal No. 1 and also for their proposal No. 2, and expect this to be followed up in the department. We feel that this is a chance island, and now it has to be implemented, at least from 1 January 2005. In the case of aid schemes, we do not want to change these in a meaningful way. The introduction was based on the fact that these should be allowed to end this period. However, we support the Government's proposal to include revenues from the secondary markets when setting the ceiling for ticket support, but we do not want the ticket support to be covered by the refund schemes. Ticket support has worked well, and it works well as a stimulus for the production of films with large audience potential and for children's films. In the notification, the Government has proposed to amend the recovery schemes for aid. We're going against that. The submitted Communication discusses to a small extent incentives for attracting the production of foreign films. There are very many different schemes from country to country. At a seminar on the theme of the Workers' Party, it was found that New Zealand had a government council that constantly followed up the "Ringene's Lord" production. We haven't gotten that far in Norway yet, and when I think a little bit about it, I'm glad that the 'Bare Bea' film wasn't followed up by a separate government council from the Christian People's Party – then it might just be a short film. However, the point is that film production is a major industry in many parts of the world, providing both jobs and income. It is therefore interesting to have the instruments and consequences presented to Stortinget before we decide. This has been given a majority in the committee, but also here the government parties are opposed. In the culture message setting, Innst. S. No 155 for 200-2004, the regional film funds and the various film environments around Norway are mentioned. Now it's Trondheim's tour. I am therefore pleased that the government parties are with us on the topic of the regional initiative in Trøndelag. The technological and cinematographic competence of the film area in Trøndelag, and especially in Trondheim, is great. I expect the government to follow this up and come back to the 2005 state budget with funds for this regional film initiative. I hope today's decision to introduce VAT in the cinema and film industry leads to several good Norwegian films. I'm happy. In doing so, I take up the minority proposals from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e212	The representative Torny Pedersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e215	Norwegian Film production is within a very good period. We see many new productions, good audiences and an offensive film industry with a view to growth and innovation. This is a good sign and confirms that the conversions of the aid schemes made in 2001 so far show positive results. In the context of the reforms in 2001, it was considered that these schemes should be evaluated after five years. It is therefore natural to ask what expectations and motives the opposition had when, in the context of the 2004 state budget, it forced an urgent communication on film finance, despite the fact that the Minister of Culture already made it clear in the debate that it would be impossible to provide an adequate communication in as short a time as was required. In view of the clear wishes of the film industry and the discussions held in Stortinget on film, it has been in the cards that VAT, EU adaptations and incentive schemes are possible next steps in the development of the Norwegian film industry. All of this is relatively complicated, where the Storting should have had quality assured and reworked proposals to decide on. This has made the majority of this room impossible through short deadlines, and we have therefore received a message that might appear as a bit of a malaproposal in relation to what it would now have been natural to grasp. Let's hope that at the next crossroads we get better time, and that we can do the job properly. From a slightly different point of view, there seems to be a broad consensus in the Committee that the film industry will be a natural part of the study now to be undertaken by the Ministry in the field of cultural-based economic development. This Communication should further assess the potential of Norway for film production on the international market and, where appropriate, the natural means to use it. Incentive schemes, such as special schemes in relation to taxes and taxes, come to be central. The right is positive that we are going to go into this work with a view to attracting international films to Norway. Other countries have positive experiences in the relationship between travel and film production. Many of these are also relevant to Norway. Further efforts to develop Norwegian film commissions are important in this context. Here too, good cooperation between parts of the country is needed, so that we do not build up bureaucracy and get too small units with too little impact. Internationalisation through increased investment in film production in Norway will also strengthen an otherwise small Norwegian film environment. Co-productions and use of Norwegian film workers will strengthen the professional networks, and increased volume will improve the continuity of work on film production — in short, lay the foundation for a more robust industry. The film represents an exciting meeting between art and the market. Good films have the potential to be good business, and it must be an important objective to make the best possible provision for the film industry to be able to attract private capital in addition to the public support schemes we want to continue. A type of actor that can contribute in this direction is the regional film funds. This mobilises public and private capital in the regions with a view to bringing productions to local environments. Regional film funding is known from most European countries, while in Norway we have only a few small initiatives that have not yet started properly. One important reason for this is that this form of funding under the Ministry of Culture is contrary to EU competition rules. In several places in Norway, regional participation in film funds is available as soon as the formalities for this are completed. I would like to underline the importance of this work being carried out, and that we can clarify the arrangements that can be accepted, and the extent to which it is possible to organise the Norwegian funds so that they meet the ESA's requirements. The film industry has done a very good job in finding a consensus on the issue of the introduction of VAT. Right-wing think important cultural policy considerations speak for the future to have the greatest possible home production of films. This implies the provision of mechanisms to strengthen production. The introduction of a low rate of VAT, i.e. 6 pst, which has been mentioned, will be a good tool in this context. The right, therefore, supports the intentions contained in the majority proposals on this point, but we believe on a principle basis that we should have quality assurance figures for what this will cost. We don't have that today. We therefore wanted this matter to have been decided in connection with the treatment of the State budget, where it actually belongs. The eagerness of the working party, following the urgency of 1 November, appears to be a poorly justified and slightly demonstrative mark. As such, it stands in the style of the whole run that pushed forward the message, and it is natural to ask what is the most important, the party marking or the good, the gathering and the stable solutions for the film in Norway. We also expect the Government to return to the corrections to current grant schemes signalled in the notification in the context of the submission of the State budget for the autumn. The right-hand side mainly supports all of these that are outlined there. It is announced a proposal by the Socialist Left which reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the 2005 State Budget to investigate the ownership and operation of Norsk Filmstudio AS in a way that ensures the operation of the only professional film studio in Norway.’ There I would like to remind you of the treatment of this in connection with the last state budget, where it was actually assumed that Norsk Filmstudio AS would be sold. But the comments also took into account the need to seek to do this in a way that ensured important functions for this institution. It won't be natural for the Right, and I don't suppose for the government parties otherwise, to support this proposal, simply because we have taken a stand on this issue before. A new movie season stands at the door. Ten Norwegian films are advertised to arrive early in the autumn. So the development after a major film year in 2003 seems to continue. This promises good for the film in our country. The ability to deliver good films is the seventh and final prerequisite for both public and private investment in the film sector. Right wants an offensive film environment in Norway, and we want to shape our policy with this in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e267	Today, we ensure that both the cultural and the economic aspects of film production and distribution are better conditioned in Norway. The biggest change we're making is that film production and distribution are covered by 6 pst. VAT. That's the same rate of VAT as the NRK. Of course, film producers and distributors are pleased with this solution, because it gives tens of millions of dollars in plus in the accounts, which can then be used to make, distribute and market more, bigger and better Norwegian films than today. There will also be less bureaucracy, which saves both resources, time and money. A majority, all except the Christian People's Party and the Right, asked the Government to deal with VAT issues in the context of the work on the Culture Communication by 1 March 2004. We now know that the government did not follow up on this, and it is extra disappointing that the government was once again allowed to follow this up when the film message was submitted in ours. Instead, the Christian People's Party and the Right have made a comment that they want to have a motion for a resolution on film and VAT before the end of 2004. It reveals that neither do these parties think it is so important to wait for the whole cultural area to be reviewed. As an instrument of film policy, we have before the Film Fund, which provides production support and script support, and which has a level that allows for a certain number of films per year. years. In the Culturallift, SV, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, has promised to increase production support and other measures, including: the target of 25 pst. the cinematographic visit to Norway shall be in Norwegian films. In 2001, we received the ticket support, which should be an incentive for making public-friendly films and not just narrow films to be profitable. As ticket support and production aid are granted from the same budget line, paradoxical events took place: good public-friendly films led to high ticket subsidies and less money for next round production. This may be a smile, but it's probably not very funny for them it hits. For those who live from film and television production, the success of the next round led to tighter working conditions. That was hardly the intention, and therefore SV has proposed that ticket aid and production aid should be granted from two different budget lines and that ticket aid should be an estimate, which means that there is no ceiling for it. It should be limited only by the public's willingness to go to cinema and watch Norwegian films. It must be sad to be Minister of Culture and get such tight frames to work within. Clearly, the Minister of Culture has not been able to get through to the Government, nor has she received any particular help from either the Gabrielsen Council or the Minister of Finance Foss, although film production and distribution are also, to a very large extent, industrial policy. Among other things, they do. Recognised in Sweden, which has built up production environments and several film studios around the country. In Norway, we only have one professional film studio, the film studio at Jar. Sadly, the Workers' Party has given the government parties a majority in favour of Norsk Film being converted into AS and, as a result, put it all out for sale. So dramatically, it was perceived by the former State Secretary of the Workers' Party for Culture Minister Kleveland, Lene Løken, who is now Director of Film & Cinema, that she was resigning as chairman only in protest. It is sad and paradoxical that when we build good film production support schemes, we risk all studio productions moving to other countries, for example. to Trollhättan in Sweden – to make our own movies! At least it is not a good Norwegian industrial policy, nor is it a good cultural policy. Here the Workers' Party has one thing they should soon take up and do something about. They'll get support from S.B., I guarantee it. And with the new efforts of the Advance Party in the film industry – if I can use that word right now – I don't ignore the fact that they see just the industrial policy benefits of having a professional film studio in Norway. Therefore, SV dares to present a proposal here in the hall today, that Jar film studio must be secured. To achieve the widest possible majority, I therefore choose to promote this as much as possible: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the 2005 State Budget to investigate the ownership and operation of Norsk Filmstudio AS in a way that ensures the operation of the only professional film studio in Norway.’ It is important that both the ownership of the Norwegian film studio, the debt and the agreement on the free rental of premises are included in the investigation. SV is pleased that the Workers' Party was given a reverse cut of 7.5 million. kr in the production aid for films proposed by the Government in the revised national budget. This proposal for a cut comes at the top of a year when ticket support has been so high that the production of Norwegian films had to be reduced in any case. It is difficult to understand the Minister of Culture differently from the fact that she does not want to promote Norwegian film production and distribution at the moment. Some may be surprised that SV is involved in the comments on the closer examination of the relationship between culture, nutrition and incentives. This should not be understood as giving SV a blank authorisation to all ideas about market measures and incentive solutions proposed, but we want to have a review of possible measures that we can see in the context and decide later on. At the same time, we would stress that it is important that the aid schemes for non-commercial films also have sufficiently good framework conditions to ensure the further development of film language and forms of expression. I want to finish my post by expressing joy over the state and progress of Norwegian film, over recent years' development and over many good films in several genres that can match movies from the rest of the world. SV shall also contribute to the continuation of this development. I am promoting the proposal we have in the vote and what has been put into the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e307	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e310	The interest in Norwegian-produced films has taken a strong place in recent years. This has also been created about film policy. Only three years ago, it was significantly transformed into an increase in public awareness. However, the cancellation notice shows that there is a need for some adjustments to the financial framework conditions in order to obtain even more film for the money. The Christian People's Party will stress that film is above all an arena of artistic expansion and thus one of our most important cultural expressions. However, film production is very expensive and requires a large production apparatus. Thanks to the large public interest, it has been shown that the film attracts interest from economic investors and from business. This does not apply equally to other forms of art. For the public, it is important to facilitate the maintenance of this interest and that the whole country can also be used in this context. It is therefore also very promising, as we now see, that active film environments are emerging in a number of Norwegian regions. It is also an important public task to ensure that this increased interest is channelled into creative activities. Experiences from other countries include: Our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Denmark, show that such investment can trigger a high potential. We also see that local and regional authorities in several places in our country show great interest in filming. It is therefore gratifying that an overall committee has so clearly expressed the desire to invest in regional companies, mainly fund-based companies, which can contribute to the development of regional film production in our country as well. According to the majority of the population, the background to the presentation of this Communication was an assessment of the economic framework conditions for Norwegian film policy. The regret was that the government was given a very short period of time for this work. When you look back at the comments of the majority, you are left with a clear sense of the fact that there was not a horizontal discussion of the framework conditions of the film with a view to a responsible decision by the majority, but an opportunity to pursue a policy that had been decided upon in advance. This is even clearer in the light when we can read what a prominent representative of the film industry, head of the film directors in Norway, Nina Grünfeld, said to the Nation on 5 June, after the release in the committee, "This is more than we have hoped for," she said. Another representative of the industry, the ‘Elling’ producer, Dag Alveberg, ‘is relieved and happy’ of the decision, as it said in today’s business. He goes on to say, ‘It is good that those who make this decision are at their full five’. I guess that shows something about the surprise. So when we know that this decision is meant to be, it's estimated that a net gain of up to 40 million will result. kr for the same film industry, we get the point. No wonder the ‘film industry is cheering’, as the Evening Post wrote in its report. First, the decision to which it is addressed is that the Government is not given the opportunity to take action which is its responsibility, namely to adjust the regulations so that the ticket aid can also be withdrawn from the refund scheme. Thus, the reimbursement of grants could apply irrespective of the original form of grants, so that films with a high public input would not contribute too much to the depletion of the Film Fund at the expense of future productions. The second concerns the proposal to apply a low-VAT system, 6 pst. for the cinema and cinema, without prior impact assessment, from 1 January 2005. The working party will even introduce the new VAT regime in the budget year itself, as of 1 November, without any prior assessment of its impact. This means VAT on cinema tickets, while allowing manufacturers to deduct VAT from their accounts. From the Christian People's Party we have said that this can be the right way to go, but we wanted the consequences to be clarified. In a situation where the Ministry of Finance is also assessing the inclusion of other parts of cultural life in the VAT system, we thought that the least we could do was wait for an assessment of the VAT case before making a decision. That's not what the opposition was thinking. It was very pleased with the economical investigations it had received from the industry itself, so why would the whole government apparatus turn around with something that had already been done? Incentives for attracting foreign producers to Norway are important. This would be well reviewed in the context of the communication on culture-based industrial activities. But the majority would not wait here either. Having said this, we can still agree on something, namely that we want everything good for Norwegian films in the future as well. Although it can go a little fast in the turns here in the Storting, we're hoping that it's true as it's often said, that it's going to be better now, and that this is also the case this time. At the same time, we are pleased that the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party led to a realignment of the cut in the film appropriations. So it should be possible for Norwegian film production to make new progress in the time to come, hopefully also to the delight of the Norwegian cinema audience – which is getting more expensive tickets.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e341	I want to start by giving praise to the case spokesperson. I thought the case spokesperson had done a clean and not least good job. It's a co-ordinated magnification that praises the success of Norwegian film in the last few years. Last year, 20 films premiered in Norwegian cinemas. Several of them had great success, and contributed to the fact that much of the 2003 year was a record year for cinema visits. The center party would like to build on that success and make Norwegian film and cinema into a field of bets for years to come. Such a bet will have a positive impact on the audience, on the film industry and on Norwegian language, culture and narrative tradition in a broad sense. With the Cultural Promise, the Centre Party – together with the Workers' Party and SV – set the goal of producing 20 new films every year in this country, and 25 pst. the cinema search shall be in Norwegian films. At the same time, we know that both the number of productions and the number of visits to the films can fluctuate. Even with better framework conditions, we cannot expect new records to come every year. The goal must be that we can build a viable film industry with a lack of power and impact enough to give the audience even more positive experiences in meeting Norwegian films in the years to come. In a language area as small as the Norwegian language, and with such a limited audience base, we have to admit that the progress we have seen would not have been possible without public support. The complexity of the film policy needs to be kept under constant review, but if you want the film to continue to produce visible results, you need to keep the transfers to the film at least to their current level and preferably to increase it. In the proposal for a revised national budget, we saw that the government tried to do the opposite by cutting millions of dollars in the transfers to the Film Fund. In the film message we're now discussing, the majority are going to introduce a fixed low rate of VAT into the entire film and cinema business. In addition to this, there is a legal cleanup that makes everyday life easier and more transparent for the actors, there is also a form ofsubsidisation of the film industry that cannot easily be eliminated in the annual budget negotiations. As a result, the industry will have more robust framework conditions, and this is important for the Centre Party. The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, referred to several press releases in previous articles. Many of them came after the committee had given this setting, and it struck me that those who were relatively positive were not the representative Eriksen so excited to use, if they had no contact with the opposition. I want to include a few quotes in addition to the ones mentioned. They are also from Aftenposten on 5 June, and director Aage Aaberge of the association of Norwegian film and television producers states the following: ‘The most important thing is that the Norwegian film industry is thus treated in the same way as the industries in Denmark and Sweden.’ And then another quote from the same paper. It is Secretary of State Yngve Latholm of the Ministry of Culture who is not ‘without an understanding of the multi-committee motions for motions for motions for resolutions on cinema’. So to proposal No. 6, from SV, which is distributed to its representatives. That's what the Center Party will support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e369	In the communication on film policy, I have done a great deal of good for the positive developments in Norwegian film production in recent years. This positive trend seems to continue, and that's good. I'm not going to repeat everything in the message about this, but I'm just going to use it to open my article by giving honey to the film industry too much effort. No matter what forward-looking arrangements we have in the field – without an active, innovative and innovative industry, we had not received the good visiting figures in Norwegian films that we have had and that we still have. In the setting, a comprehensive committee assumes that the income from the secondary market is to be taken into account when calculating the aid. This is in line with the Ministry's proposal, and I am pleased about that. I now want to discuss the details of the legislation with the film industry before sending a proposal for a change of rules on hearing. I also assume that there is a possibility to make other, smaller regulatory adjustments. I will return to any major changes in the arrangements and legislation after the broad evaluation that starts in the fall. Let me also remind you, for formal reasons, that it is actually the department as defined by the rules, and that negotiations should not take place, as it seems to me that parts of my committee. The Committee emphasises the need for incentive schemes, including: makes it attractive for foreign filmmakers to produce films in Norway. This is a very important question, which can lead to ring-fences for Norwegian film production, Norwegian business and different regions in Norway. In other words, these are measures that will be positive in both regional and industrial policy contexts. As you know, the government is working with a big message about culture and industry. Foreign film production incentive schemes in Norway will be an important part of this message. Let me make it clear, however, that the overarching goal of the back-up arrangements we have is to produce Norwegian films. In recent years, film initiatives have been undertaken in several different regions of Norway. This initiative has different approaches. In some places, film production is involved, in others, measures to develop business, and in some places there are plans for other types of bets. I very much welcome these regional initiatives. It's not just in Oslo that there's going to be film production. Active regions must be entered. I will start to analyse the different regional measures and involve the industry itself in this work. New measures and schemes usually have a cost side. I am starting to assume that introducing new schemes, whether they involve incentive schemes for foreign film production in Norway or regional film measures, should not have a negative impact on current schemes. There also appears to be a multiple in the Committee to allow the film and cinema to enter the VAT system at a low rate of 6 pst. The time has come for this, but we have heard from the representative Pedersen that the Workers' Party supports the proposal from the SV, the Progress Party and the Center Party. I want to make a little comment on this very matter. Because, if there's so much urgency for the Workers' Party as they add, why in all the world introduced a not 6 pst. for the film industry then submitted a complaint about VAT on services? Already the demand was there from the producers, but the Labour Party said no! Ellen Horn didn't bring it, not to mention Schjøtt-Pedersen, who was Minister of Finance. Then it wasn't a speech - but when one comes to the opposition, one even has to do it in the middle of a budget year! It's not reasonable when you're dealing with things this way. It is also said in the setting that one will come back to look at the ticket support scheme after it has been evaluated. That's exactly what I asked for in the fall when Stortinget ordered me to send a film message! We need to have time to evaluate this. It's a new system, and we're going to come back after the evaluation. And so after I've now submitted a message that I got incredibly short of time, the opposition also comes up to the same thing. That's good, but one could have avoided this if one had thought a little bit long-term already. In the setting, parts of the committee come with criticism because I do not provide specific suggestions on VAT in the message. This is unimaginable. When I was required to submit this message, I informed them that I was unable to do the work in such a way as was required by Stortinget. It goes without saying that one cannot resolve such complicated issues as the introduction of VAT in such a short time. I'm not negative about introducing VAT into the cinema and film industry, but I've thought it's best to first see the whole cultural sector together. We don't want to do that now. But it's not just in the film industry that it might seem wrong to stand outside of the VAT system. This should be more thoroughly analysed when VAT on services was introduced by the Labour Party in the previous period. I now want to raise the issue of VAT with the Minister of Finance, and the Government will come back to the matter in the context of the 2005 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e400	With regard to the introduction of VAT, the Workers' Party has in retrospect seen that, among other things: Should have brought the NRK. In retrospect, we have also seen the importance of introducing VAT into the cinema and film industries. We now want to get this done, and we want to get it done as quickly as possible. We did not understand that we would have done this before we started the budgetary procedure, i.e. in November, but it looks like it's going to be a majority in favour of it from 1 January 2005. Neither could the government parties. Then I am worried that this will be a matter that will be drawn out in time. I would challenge the Council of States: can the Council of States accept that there is now a majority in favour of the introduction of VAT from 1 January 2005 and that it is actually introduced from that date?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e409	I finally said in my post that this is a matter that I want to raise with the Minister of Finance, and that we will come back to it in 2005. Of course, I have noticed what the plurality means in this matter. I've never hidden that on. I have also had good communication with the Producers' Association in this matter. It's an important incentive. What I've been reacting to especially with the representatives of the Workers' Party is that a party that has been sitting for so long in government doesn't realize that things have to be done before we can bring them in. I said in my post that we will come back to this in the 2005 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e416	As can be seen from the change in line we have just heard, it was not with the greatest enthusiasm that the Council of State in its time followed up the decision that we wanted a report on economic conditions in the film industry. She herself has referred to her product as a thin tile, a view I share. There are two more solar challenges in the attitude adopted today. 6 pst. VAT is the one thing that Torny Pedersen was into. There is also a clear message that we want a message to the Stortinget to get foreign productions to Norway, with incentive schemes to achieve this during the current growth period. My question to the Council of State is, can we expect that with something greater enthusiasm now she will present such a message?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e423	To what extent I show enthusiasm or not, we're going to lie down. I'm really busy giving the film industry a good time. I'm very busy with the issues we're discussing today. I react a little more strongly to some of the comments in some of the articles in relation to what the Government has done, and what I might have to mean, among other things. on the film ‘Bea’, on which the representative Pedersen was in. I said in my post that it is natural to get into the incentive schemes in a big message about culture and industry. In cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we will take an active step towards developing incentives in relation to the film industry as well. Now I do not have it quite clear to me when this message is to be submitted, but I am overconfident that at least it will come in the current growing-up period. We thought this would be part of that big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e432	If we raise ourselves a little bit above the political trifle and the attempts to get in, and want to read and hear the Council of State in a benevolent way, it seems that there is a broad consensus on the future of Norwegian film. Those who work in this sector should look forward to a meeting. As I read the Council of State, it's just talking about getting a little bit longer. But it's a little startling when the government's wish price has been revised repeatedly cut in exactly the same posts. Now Dagrun Eriksen said that she was pleased with the changes that the Workers' Party had forced on the Government. It could have been nice to hear if the council shared the same joy. To the Norwegian film studio at Jar: Thommessen said this case had been dealt with earlier. I see this is a paradox. While everyone wants the future of Norwegian film well, everyone will support Norwegian film – that’s good operation – we have a professional studio in Norway, which hovers in danger. What action has the Council of State taken, and what action will the Council of State take, to ensure the Year?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e439	I share the joy of the representative Eriksen. It's hard to explain, but when one sits in a government college and has to cut up to billions of dollars, it's unlikely that a government council in such a race will say: I have nothing to give. At least I think those who once have our government councils can confirm that one expects everyone to work with revised and have to cut up to billions of dollars. In my budget is very much tied up because one has written letters of assignment, and one has legal bonds. I didn't have that many places to cut. I don't like to cut movies. I don't like cutting in the press support either. I don't like to cut anything in my budget, but in a split layer all have to surface. Therefore, I am very happy that these money is not being cut. Then there are other government councils that must suffer. I haven't been able to figure out where the cut will be taken, but I'm happy with the Film Fund's behalf so that the funds will stay. But as I said, in a spice layer -- when you're going to have billions -- there's someone who needs to finish. I did not get a response to the other question. We're going to have to do it in the rotunda afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e448	The working party is also very happy that we got the government parties to put 7.5 million. kr in again for the film industry. I was not satisfied with the answer I received from the Council of State in the previous row. The Council of State said that she has noticed the majority that we are going to introduce VAT from 1 January 2005 and that she will come back to it in the budget. Now we know from experience that there are many ways to get back. My question is: from 1 January 2005, will we get to the point that VAT is introduced, that it is not just a problem that is highlighted in the budget, but that we really get it introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e458	I feel that I have answered the question from the representative Pedersen that we come back to this in the budget. This is a matter that I agree with in the contents of, and then it has to work out. If we can get through these arrangements, I have to bring up with my colleague the Minister of Finance, because it's on his table the VAT is. I'll have to talk to him about that. Multiple is a multiple in this case. When it comes to the park at Jar, as the previous replica asked for, we decided in the budget for this year to open the hall to secure further operation as a studio. It is important for me to stress that I want to do what I can to make the sale happen, so that we can ensure further operations. The point is that we could not continue as we did, and it has something to do with EU legislation, which I have explained in this matter before. Finally, it was said by the representative Knudsen that it had been cut in the film industry, both in the 2005 state budget and revised. That's wrong. That was an increase of 3 pst. in the 2005 state budget, and the cut in revision is now in place, and I think we all should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e467	When we dealt with the cultural message, a unanimous committee stressed the importance of focusing on gender and equality perspectives in Norwegian cultural life. It is laid down in the Gender Equality Act that the actual state of equality in establishments required to draw up annual reports is to be accounted for. Actions taken and actions planned in the future to promote equality and prevent discrimination contrary to this Act shall also be described. Public sector bodies and establishments which are not required to draw up annual reports shall make a similar statement in their annual budget. It is important to focus on gender perspective and gender perspective in Norwegian cultural life. I want to challenge the state councils in relation to the film industry, which are coming out extremely badly. I think the Council of State was very good at the commitment to sports Norway when it was about the jumping girls, and looks forward to the answer to what she would do to correct the equality perspective in the film industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e474	It's hard in so short a time to give a full answer to that line. I have also not ordered it, because it is another topic we have today. I sense that there will be more and more female producers and directors afterwards. I think the film industry itself is very aware that one needs more women. Now it's hard for the department to direct this, but we can emphasize that it's important that this should show up for example. in the annual report. Then the result comes to the table, and then one sees that if it's biased, as it is in the film industry, as the representative points out, we have to do something about it. Having quotas for women directors or producers I don't think I'm right to go, but at least to be a mild driver so that those who distribute funds to produce films should be aware of this, I think is a signal that can go to the Film Fund, preferably from the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e481	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e486	This committee is also an equal opportunities committee, and I'm going to follow up my question instead, because I think it is absolutely necessary that we focus on this also in Norwegian cultural life. Today, the film sector is introducing new instruments, providing several $10 million a year for the production and distribution of Norwegian films in the film industry. It is very happy with this, because it is important that Norway, which is a small language area and a small cultural nation, produces its own films. There's a big shortage of women in the film industry. I want to mention some examples: we have a film school with five lines and five male line managers. The last year's film production consisted of 18 long films. There were three female film directors of 18 here, no female lead roles, except for two girls in children's movies. If someone were to call this a random year, the facts for 2002 show that of a total of ten films produced, one animation film and one fiction film were made by a woman. In 2001, one in seven feature films was made by a woman. In 2000, two out of eight films were made by a woman, and in 1999 two out of nine films were made by a woman. This will continue if we don't do anything about equality in the film industry. Few women who have been able to find a place in the production environment have been successful both in Norway and abroad. Women must be part of the entire production chain of film production. This is an expression where it is important for women to participate more fully. The involvement of the Norwegian Film Institute in relation to the equality issue in this sector is positive. They shall present the facts on gender equality in the film industry on 4 October of this year through the «Sex in motion» project, which will focus on the gender balance in Norwegian film production. It will be exciting to see the results, and SV will consider making the necessary proposals to improve the situation when the project is completed. Today, when the industry is provided with very good framework conditions for the development and stimulation of the production and distribution of Norwegian films, the industry needs to provide a better gender equality profile than today. I would like to ask the Government to follow up this development and to consider possible instruments to ensure equality within the Norwegian film and cinema industry. After all, the Swedish Minister for Culture has assessed quotas, and it is possible that when this report comes, it will be one of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e503	First of all, the proposal was put forward in the Chamber today by the representative Magnar Lund Bergo. It is a proposal with good intentions, which we share, but this, as the representative Thommess from the Right said, is settled between the Government and the Workers' Party in connection with the state budget, and we do not believe in rematch in this context. Of course, it's important for Norway to have a professional film studio, but I'm wondering a little bit about putting this proposal over the table. Now we've had the film message for six to seven weeks in the committee without that being mentioned in a word, and then you bring it over the table. I think that's a little weird. So a few comments on the articles of the Council of State. I noticed that the Council of State focused a lot on the fact that the adjustment of the support schemes is the department that decides. So she said that parts of the committee had opinions about having a ‘constructive dialogue’ in this area. It is, in fact, an important part of the Committee that has views on this, namely the majority, and the majority of them are in this Chamber. At least something like that was said at the end of the 1800s. What the majority say is that the support schemes that you have should continue this period without any significant change, and we assume, of course, that the Council of State is following this majority. I also noticed that the Council of State expressed the hope that the case of incentives to attract foreign production to Norway would come during this large-scale period. I would just like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that the decision states that the matter should be dealt with during this large-scale period. Then it must come around Christmas time to be able to get it for treatment. In the end, I think the Council of State said something about me saying something about cutbacks in the revised national budget on film support. I have not mentioned the film support cuts at all today. I think that was the representative of Lund Bergo, so that's where I think the Council of State might have been wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e514	Whoever has made a mistake is now correcting the possible misunderstanding. Now everyone knows what it's like. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3098]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e532	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The first speaker was Ulf Erik Knudsen, who is given the floor instead of the President-in-Office, Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e543	It seems to be a habit today. Crisis centers – that was the thing we had now come to, right? – Then we have informed ourselves correctly. Crisis centres have been and are a very important low threshold offer for victims of violence. An overall committee underlines the importance and necessity of having an offer to people in crisis. Crisis centres form an important part of society’s provision of this emergency aid. It's a commendable job the crisis centres have done since they started in the 1970s. Much of the work is based on private engagement, volunteering and idealism. A number of the 50 crisis centres in Norway have at times been marked by unpredictable economic conditions. This is particularly evident when the local economy around the country is under pressure. At the request of the State Council, this matter was pending the Government's examination of new forms of financing in the context of the 2005 Municipal Proposition. We had expectations that there would be proposals for 80 pst on the part of the Government. State funding. But in the municipal proposition, there was nothing new from the government. This is why we are dealing with this matter today. The majority, consisting of the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, are in favour of increased state funding from 50 pst. to 80 pst. The fact that this is very pleasing to the Advancement Party is seen when you know that we have already proposed this in 1998. It is very important that the funds for the crisis centres are earmarked. These means can quickly be lost in the great swallow if they are not earmarked, all the time this offer is not required by law and will not be. In Document No: 8:17 proposes to legislate for emergency centres. The Government Parties and the Advance Party believe that legalising the offer is not necessarily consistent with ensuring it. There are a number of statutory tasks that unfortunately are not followed up in Municipality-Norway. For us, it is far more important to ensure that there is actually an offer for victims of violence, rather than to oblige the municipalities to have such an offer. There are now both public and private crisis centres, and a large number of municipalities provide the vulnerable women and children with an offer, either through their own or intercommunal agreements. There will be doubts as to whether municipalities that cannot afford to meet the cost of staying at the crisis centres today can afford to do so even if the provision of crisis centres is legalised. In the view of the Advance Party, every citizen has the right to protection when he/she feels threatened. This may be the main reason why we want to ensure that crisis centres are able to operate further. The size would also like to say something about increasing the state's efforts to enable drivers of crisis centres to use the existing state agencies, including those in charge of the crisis centres. to increase the level of competence. National child protection and family protection are a natural place for crisis centres to seek advice and guidance in this context. In the future, crisis centres will face a safer and more stable future. Drivers can spend their time on users instead of using forces and resources to make ends meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e569	Unfortunately, reality is such that there is a good deal of domestic violence. Most of the violence is perpetrated by men against women, but there is also violence against children. We don't know how much the socio-economic costs are, but we know that this is a major social problem, and that it's going on across social, economic, and cultural backgrounds. This is why the Labour Party has long considered that society needs to take greater responsibility for women and children being given the necessary help and security they need when experiencing domestic violence. At that time, the 50 crisis centres in the country are the lowthreshold facilities that women and children feel they can go to when their life situation is threatened. But the perpetrators also need help. With a 50 pst funding. grants from municipalities and 50 pst. from the state we know that this is not predictable enough for the crisis centres. Unfortunately, not all municipalities contribute to the funding, because this is not a statutory task. No one today wants this offer to be dropped, and most still want municipal responsibility. The question is how we maintain municipal responsibility and predictable funding. Proposalers focus on regulatory requirements and greater government funding. I would like the entire committee to be able to support both the proposers and the Women's Violence Committee, which unanimously concludes that crisis centres should become a task for the law. Domprost Tor B. Jørgensen i Bodø was a member of the Women's Violence Committee and believes that, without legal requirements, the crisis centres have been given the will and ability of each municipality to prioritise money for the operation of the centres. Law enforcement would provide a more equivalent offer across the country. The Labour Party believes that if we are to legislate on the offer, it must also follow the money to the municipalities. We have previously proposed a state funding of 80 pst. from the State and 20 pst. from the municipalities. We've been downplayed on this in the past. It's a pleasure to be able to stand here and know that 80-20 pst. adopted today and shall enter into force from the financial year 2005. More disappointing is the story of how the government has dealt with this matter. The majority has waited obediently for the Women's Violence Committee's investigation, and the committee postponed the examination of Document No. 8:17 for 2003-2004 from the representatives of the Workers’ Party after the Committee received a letter from the Minister for Children and Family, where she stated that she would submit several models of solutions for the crisis centres in the municipal proposition for 2005. We had great expectations. The municipal proposal was submitted on 11 May and there was no good news. No more money, no more law enforcement. In the municipal bill, the Council of State says that an increase in the earmarked state grant to 80 pst. of the operating budgets will reduce the financial responsibilities of the municipalities and may weaken the interest in good and cost-effective solutions and inter-municipal committed cooperation. This kind of surprises me. Municipalities cooperate as never before, and the interest and responsibility for their own inhabitants and their problems do not fall away, either, with more money at their disposal. The Council of State also states in the municipal bill that a statutory commitment would be contrary to the Government's principles of governance of the local government sector. In the case of crisis centres, the consideration of women and not least children who experience violence and abuse in their own homes should have been higher than the principles of the party program of the Christian People's Party in particular. Fortunately, it is political parties that not only ride principles but have understood the problems of the country's crisis centres, and the value of these crisis centres for women and children, and especially for immigrant women. The Labour Party is very pleased that a majority for 80-20 funding is now in port, and fortunately it is also a majority for continued designation. I expect this to be followed up in the 2005 state budget. Finally, on behalf of the Workers' Party and SV, I would like to address the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e597	The representative Torny Pedersen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e600	For many years, crisis centres have been a very important low-threshold service for women who are exposed to domestic violence and their children. Crisis centres have largely been based on voluntary efforts, which will be an alternative and will also complement and form an important partner for the public service. I really want to commend the voluntary effort women make around in that quite country. It's an impressive job that's being done. We are all concerned that the daily lives of many women have become very difficult, and that there seems to be an increasing need for crisis centres, especially for women with immigrant backgrounds. The right considers that close contact with the local auxiliaries is important in order to ensure the quality of assistance provided to women and children in a difficult life situation. Local knowledge and good local follow-up after the crisis centre is crucial and not least important for how to plan their future. We believe that this offer must be seen in conjunction with other assistance services for which the municipalities are responsible and for which the women and their children will clearly need. State efforts are still needed to ensure and develop crisis centres. Nearer 90 pst. the municipalities are currently contributing to the economic operation of these centres. We've had an increase in grants from municipalities over the last three years of 6, 7 and 14 pst, respectively. This shows that municipalities take responsibility and give priority to action for women in a difficult life situation. The crisis centres are currently being financed by 50 p.m. from the State and 50 pst. from the municipalities, and in some cases there are other contributors. The right is concerned with keeping local authorities' involvement up, and believes it is best that municipalities continue to have financial responsibility and approve the budgets. In particular, it is important to strengthen the work done by the host municipalities in order to obtain longer-term intermunicipal solutions. In the right, it would be wise for the management of grants and development tasks to be added to the child protection and family protection of the Regional State. Coordination and exchange of competences between these two sectors will strengthen the fight against violence in general. The current development of crisis centres shows wide variations in coverage in the different regions. Therefore, the right considers that an accessibility plan must be drawn up for the whole country. National child protection and the five regional offices of family protection will be a good starting point for assessing, in cooperation with municipalities, a more even offer in the country, including in terms of quality. With such a plan, we will be able to expect that all municipalities will gradually contribute to providing a good offer of emergency assistance in the event of domestic violence. A new challenge for urban crisis centres is the great overweight of female residents with ethnic minority backgrounds. I am therefore very pleased that the Department is developing a competence development programme dealing with minority women, in cooperation with relevant professional communities where the focus will be on training employees in crisis centres and their closest partners. I am also pleased that the Husbank loan scheme will make it easier for crisis centres to obtain loans to improve the physical living environment. There is a broad consensus on the importance of crisis centres and the work being done to help violent women and their children. Disagreement is only about the instruments. There is now a majority of opposition parties to the State grant of 80 pst. shall be earmarked and the municipal grant shall be 20 pst. As I was told, the Right believes that responsibility for the crisis centres should remain municipally anchored, as today, and that the grant should in the long run be incorporated into the municipality's framework, as the Stortinget has actually adopted earlier just a few years ago. The solutions for which it is now becoming a majority will reduce the financial responsibility of municipalities, and I am afraid that it will weaken the interest for good, cost-effective solutions and committed inter-municipal cooperation. In conclusion, I think there is reason to ask whether this governmentization of the crisis centres that the opposition is now adopting is another example of local democracy and the importance of independent assessments and priorities locally only for use in celebrations rather than in practical policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e626	I have to answer the previous speaker first. In fact, it is natural to compare the crisis centres with the protection of children and the protection of families, where this government has really stood in the way of publicising these two stages to which it is natural to bind crisis centres. We are now re-examined a Document No. 8-proposals for law enforcement and financing of crisis centres. This is the second time in this period. This proposal is supported by the Workers' Party. The previous proposal was SV's, and then the Workers' Party voted against the law. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party is now going for law enforcement, because it has proved necessary. I believe that the majority of the committee has the best argument in this consideration of the proposal for legislation to be necessary, but I believe that their conclusion is wrong. They write: ‘The majority are of the opinion that municipalities that cannot afford to use the crisis centres today will also not have the financial resources to offer this to their citizens, even if the provision of crisis centres was legalised.’ That's exactly what this is all about. As long as it is not statutory, the offer of women and children in crisis will depend on the economy of each municipality. Crisis centres should be an offer for all municipalities, and a law-enforcement would give citizens a right. Legislation would oblige municipalities to provide their part of the grant. SV's proposal was originally 100 pst. State funding and it would have freed the centres from the finances of the municipalities. We primarily want crisis centres and incest centres to be a state task in line with child protection, family protection and care. Studies have been carried out which clearly conclude that an improvement in the funding of centres is necessary. That's not the majority for 100 pst. State funding. Therefore SV will support the Workers' Party's proposal for an 80 pst. the financing of the State and 20 pst. financing of municipalities. This is half a victory for SV, and we are pleased that the majority of the committee for the third time confirms that it is a majority in the Grand Duchy for such funding. We are strongly responding to the fact that the Council of State has not dealt with the majority's comments on this matter when she has proposed funding. The crisis centres are a very good low threshold offer for violent women and their children. That concludes the VISA report. There is a growing need for crisis centres, and more and more women are looking for it. Crisis centres are being closed down around the country because of the economy. They're summer-bound. It is unacceptable, and it affects women and children in a very vulnerable situation. It is the concern of women and children that we want to ensure this offer, and that makes legislative and predictable funding necessary. SV is pleased that the Husbankens plan for refurbishment loans now also includes housing centres. The scheme includes loans for refurbishment and loans for refurbishment and refurbishment. Loans may also be granted for the construction of new buildings. This is fully in line with SV's proposal in Document No. 8:118 for 2001–02, which was dealt with in the United Kingdom on 3 December 2002. We believe that this is a full victory for SV. This is also essential to provide facilities for children and people with disabilities. Many centres need rehabilitation, and new start-ups are needed due to increased demand. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the Committee's recommendation that the activities should be subject to requirements. The guidelines must contain requirements covering the living environment and quality. The crisis centres around the country have been driven with great enthusiasm and as voluntary work for all years. We thought the crisis centers would be superfluous, just focusing on the issue of violence. Unfortunately, the attendance is larger than ever. The problems that these centres have to deal with are also more complex than before. Therefore, it is important that public authorities now take greater responsibility for this important and indispensable lowthreshold offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e650	For many women, crisis centres are a vital place to come. Many women have had to seek protection within the four walls of the crisis centre. They have fled from their homes and a daily life filled with violence, crises and threats. Domestic violence is a social problem. Someone has said that the most dangerous thing a woman can do is move with a man. It says something. There is no doubt that the role of crisis centres for these women is crucial. Since its establishment in the 1970s, centres have been an important part of society's offer of emergency aid to women at risk of violence. Centers are also in many ways a practical outlet for second love. Women have put in care for their sisters, and lay down, many hours of voluntary work to provide other women with an emergency haven in a difficult situation. This matter has also created a great commitment to Stortinget. It shows all the decisions and provisions and re-orders made by the Storting in relation to the crisis centres over time. Throughout the process, I experience a cross-political desire to secure this offer, although we have disagreed and also disagree today on how we best do it. Crisis centres are currently dependent on local funding to trigger the State grant. This funding has given some of the centre leaders an expression that they spend a lot of time on. If one changes the cost distribution between the State and the municipality, the central managers will still spend a lot of time putting the local share into place. What we in the Christian People's Party want is to give the centres a handshake to put in place long-term municipal and intercommunal agreements with the municipalities. Our municipal politicians have shown an enormously great ability to give priority to crisis centres. Despite the fact that many councillors are threatening to draw the appropriations, municipal politicians have taken responsibility, and the municipal increase in subsidies has increased by 6, 7 and 14 pst, respectively. in the last three years. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the protection of the state's children and the protection of the family shall be a co-player to the centres. They shall contribute to the implementation of the agreements and to the development of skills. A new allocation round with the deadline for application in September has also arrived from this year. In other words, if more funds are to be provided locally after the first allocation, funds will be available from the State. It is also an important point that there is a good proximity to other first-line services, support services and arrangements. These are generally available at local and regional level, and there is also an argument for keeping a anchoring to the local area. Some centres are struggling with worn and poor premises. More than 50 pst. the cost increase in the last few years has led to the improvement and enhancement of competences. It is therefore good that this government has now arranged for loans from the House Bank, so that the centres can obtain loans for repair, reconstruction and refurbishment as well as for inclusion. One thing showed us the Women's Violence Committee, which gave off the suspension before Christmas, clearly: we know too little about the extent of domestic violence. We also know little about the availability of vulnerable women in an acute crisis. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased to draw up an accessibility plan for the whole country. Some crisis centres in major cities report an overweight of women with ethnic minority backgrounds in centres – alarmingly many. Many have fled from their Norwegian men. Some of these engage in systematic exploitation and abuse of women from other countries with whom they have married. These women are often totally isolated, without a network. I am pleased that the Committee has underlined the need for increased knowledge of staff at the centres to be able to deal with this group. I would also like to remind you of what the Committee said about children in crisis centres in connection with the communication on family and child protection. I will end by saying that the Christian People's Party wants to preserve the peculiarity of the centres and the driving force that lies in the way they are created and driven. But it is also important that we view this offer as part of the offer society has for violent women. Therefore, it requires that most of the funding is public, whether municipal or state.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e671	Once again, there is a number at the opposition that goes in order to improve the economic situation of crisis centres, while the government party argues to keep today's funding arrangements. Crisis centers, as has been said by many here, provide invaluable help to people who are often in deep distress. Then it is only fair and reasonable that the government should arrange for the centre to do its job in a good way, without having to fear that it will be shut down or shut down. Every year, the reality is out in the municipality of Norway, so that when the municipal budgets are to be dealt with, there is a great deal of security attached to many crisis centres. The local economy is under pressure, and there are many supply around it that are being reduced or phased out. The big question is: Do the municipalities want permission, or do they not want to allow the necessary funds, which will then trigger the corresponding government funds? Of course, this concerns the centre, but not least, this concerns the most vulnerable group, namely the people who use crisis centres. I myself have our municipal politicians, and I have a seat on health and social welfare. I have gone the heavy road with the co-representatives and said no to the promises to the crisis centre that we in the municipality use, which in turn led to a reduction in the state grant. Economics is the key, and I don't understand the representative Sjöli's argument that today's financing system is a better mechanism for crisis centres than the majority's proposal for 80 pst. from the country, which is to trigger 20 pst. from municipalities. All those who have contacted us have pointed to economics. Today we have 50 crisis centres in Norway, and that means that we have good inter-municipal cooperation when it comes to crisis centres. The center party further suggests that the law enforcement is not the right way to go to ensure the operation of these centres. As we have said before, it is about 90 pst. There is no lack of goodwill that has created a difficult situation, but there is a lack of money. In principle, we are in favour of a reduction in ear-marked resources for the corresponding strengthening of the local authorities to fulfil the tasks to be solved, but there must be a match between the many tasks they have and the means they have to use for these tasks. When there's a crisis centre, the number of centres is low and the geographical variation is large, and that's the main reason, as well as the economy, for us to have an earmark of the supplement. Any inclusion should only take place once the coverage has been raised in line with local needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e688	Crisis measures have often been on the agenda of the Storting in recent years, and this may not be the last time. An overall increase sees the importance of the work done around the country to help women who are subjected to violence and abuse in close relationships, at crisis centres, incest centres, emergency telephones and rape centres. However, as is often the case in politics – when we start discussing concrete tools to facilitate work, the disagreement begins. It is important to clarify the framework conditions for the crisis centre activities of the majority of the Grand Duchy. I will, of course, continue to work on the basis of the decisions taken today by Stortinget. The majority want the state to contribute 80 pst. by the operating budgets, against today's 50 p.m. and reducing the financial liability of municipalities accordingly. Local authorities shall continue to approve the budget of the crisis centres and receive State grants on the basis of the sum of local grants. From the point of view of the ministry, the vast majority of municipalities have known their responsibilities and contributed to a growth in the budgets of the crisis centres in recent years, well beyond average growth in the municipal sector. In the last three years the growth has been 6, 7 and last year the total of 14 pst. And the state has followed up accordingly. Studies from VISTA show that much of the growth has led to improvements in pay terms for employees, but also to an improvement in premises. This is important, unfortunately, it does not seem that the need for crisis centres has fallen since the efforts to combat violence in close relations began seriously in the 1970s. New groups, not least women born in other countries, often with a short period of residence in Norway, are unfortunately in need of an increased supply. An important part of the Government’s strategy is to see crisis centres in conjunction with different national projects in order to prevent violence and gain more systematic knowledge. For example, the knowledge project at the University of Bergen, called ‘Children living with family violence’, a new regional pilot project on children in crisis centres, as well as the empowerment of a couple of selected key crisis centres in the fight against trafficking, will contribute to a clear role for crisis centres in the local and regional work against violence and will be better able to provide services, especially in relation to children. The competence of women with a migrant background shall also be increased. I want to add the administration of the state grant for the crisis centres to the state's child protection and family protection, in order also to facilitate increased interaction at a central level. The state's child protection and family protection are strengthening the knowledge of violence in the professional teams that assist the municipalities in the protection of the family and children. An availability plan shall also be drawn up for the crisis centre offer for the country as a whole. Here we will cooperate with the municipalities and also advise on the establishment of long-term cooperation agreements between the crisis centres and the municipalities. The aim is for all municipalities to deliver their work to ensure an offer of emergency assistance for their inhabitants. In addition, the Committee considers that the circular on state subsidies requires the inclusion of housing and quality requirements. The Ministry takes this with it in the further work, and will follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e703	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e707	As I said in my post, the 2005 municipal bill on crisis centres was not a good reading. After years and years on how to deal with the problems faced by crisis centres, we received the report from the Women’s Violence Committee, and it was clear about both structure and funding. But the government chooses not to follow the good report. Fortunately, there are other parties who have read the report and who see the importance of the content of the Women's Violence Committee's proposals. The next thing that matters then – and I am now asking the Government to follow up and implement – is the 80-20 funding from 1 January 2005. Is it possible for the Council of States to confirm that she will carry out what the majority today adopts?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e714	Yes, the Council of State will do that, and I also said that in my article. In some areas we have followed up the settings of the Women's Violence Committee, for example. the great grip we take on the relationship with the State's child protection and family protection. I want to point out that we really agree on most of this. The majority of the Grand Duchy disagrees with the Government, is the distribution within the public domain. We agree that we should have the earmarking of the funds. We agree that it is municipalities and state that have to pay. The only thing we disagree with the majority about is what proportion you should have from the state and municipality respectively. But still earring will be, and we have all agreed on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e723	I would refer you from a letter sent by the Council of State to the Committee: «In a letter to the Committee of 30.01.04 in connection with Doc.8.No.17 on crisis centres, I explained in detail the ministry's work on assessing a new financing scheme for crisis centres and promised to return to Stortinget as soon as possible. [[2003-2004]] The letter also underlined that more predictable framework conditions require an assessment of the financing, management and possible legalisation of the offer». The Council of State has made several references to this with legal certainty. The Committee's comments from the Government Parties state that: ‘In view of the opinion of these members, it is therefore not necessary to legislate such an obligation for the municipalities. Lawmaking will also be contrary to the Government’s principles for the governance of the local government sector.’.» Are the principles more important to the Government than to put in place such an offer for women and children?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e740	We have looked at different financial instruments for crisis centres. We have found from the Government that ringing is still the most important thing for crisis centres. Actually, I also want to praise the municipalities, which have followed up to such an extent. This government has also worked with the crisis centres for several years, with which the majority of people are familiar. The main reason why we do not legislate is precisely the responsibility of municipalities to make further contributions in the sector. This is an area that the municipalities have actually shown that they set high and that they prioritise. That is the main reason why we do not legislate this offer. I still believe that the municipalities will make efforts, but I may be somewhat concerned about the model chosen for public funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e745	Governments are talking about long-term cooperation agreements between municipalities and crisis centres. I found that to be very positive for both sides. That's what it takes. Then I want to emphasize that it's important that we play on the team, because, as the Council of State said, it's the funding system and the law that separates us. I have the impression that most people in this room have a common goal. We have 50 crisis centers in Norway. The question I have to the Council of State is: does the Council of State have any idea of what the supply around the country is like when it concerns the availability of women in need of such a supply? If it does not have an overview of it at this time, will the Council of State come back to it at its discretion?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e752	I agree with the representative that the long-term agreements are becoming very important here, and crisis centres also need help to put in place long-term intercommunal agreements. We shall contribute to that. In the case of approx. The 50 crisis centres we have, and the nature of the offer, are exactly what this availability plan is supposed to reveal. We know a lot. Personally, I've been around a number of crisis centers lately. What is reassuring is that all crisis centres say no one is rejected. But it's clear that some women who need help may have to travel far. So they have to move far away from where they live, from their own municipality, to get this offer. What we need to look at is how many people have to travel far and whether there should be more crisis centres in some regions. Because what we have to make sure is that absolutely everyone who needs it gets help. In fact, most people want a crisis center near where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e759	Most municipalities are very good. They see that this offer must be put in place, because it is so functioning. There's been a lot of reports. But it's actually so that some centers are shut down in this period we've been on the Storting. There have also been summer centres. That's what's problematic about not legislating this. Another thing that I'd like to ask the Council of State is what government parties write in their comments: «The protection of children and families of the Member States may assist crisis centres in reaching long-term inter-municipal agreements, inter alia. for financial support.’;» There's a big shift now in the State Children's Protection and Family Protection. There are some reports that show that they have a lot to do, that there is a lot that is unpredictable. Does State Child Protection and Family Protection really have the capacity to negotiate with municipalities on behalf of crisis centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e771	The important thing for me is this availability plan we're going to make. But the most important thing for users of crisis centres, even though one of the crisis centres had summer closures last year, is that everyone gets help, and no one gets rejected. We're not going to forget that. Crisis centres are doing a fantastic job in this regard. It is also true that there is a great change in state child protection and family protection. There's a formidable effort there. At the same time, they shall contribute to assisting crisis centres in achieving predictable agreements with the municipality. They also need to do that, because we are now seeing a number of violence more in the context. In the past, we may not have seen all the offers to victims of violence, either regionally or locally, well enough in the context. That's what we're now aiming to do. Then it is important that the state's child protection and family protection also contribute positively here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e778	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e783	It was said that this is a victory for some parties. I hope that this debate and the decision now taken in the Grand Duchy will be a victory for the boys and the girls, the men and the women who actually need help and a low-threshold offer, who are far too little and who have been there far too little. I hope that the decision that the Stortinget is making today actually helps us to go a little further towards all the investigations, all the debates, both on crime and on unwanted behaviour, violence against women – what it might be – that have pointed out for many years that this offer is too bad. That is why I do not understand why it should be so far inside, because when you read Norway's Law and look at everything that has legal protection in Norway, why should it be so difficult that this offer, which all politicians have said is so important, cannot be protected by law? I don't understand. I do not really understand why the government parties are so opposed to funding. I believe that it can't possibly have anything to do with municipal maritime law or the nation's economy. Time and time again, it has been shown that the most expensive is not to provide the lowthreshold service. That's what gives higher treatment costs, that's what creates an unnecessarily heavy criminal procedure, etc. But not least: that's what creates the greatest suffering and the greatest pain for those who need this kind of help. I hope that the decision that is now being taken actually helps to lift the offer out, so that you get an understanding that this is a work that is not just to be done on purpose. The most important motive, of course, is that people need help when they get into a difficult situation. But the second thing, and that's what I feel very much for, is that over the last 10 to 20 years, we've been overfocusing on criminal law and punishment in response when something goes wrong in society. So in many ways we have sacrificed the victims in that debate. I hope that this can give a boost to thinking more about sacrifice care. This will help us to get better criminal justice care too, because when, for example. In the case of women exposed to violence, we see that there is an incredibly small degree of these cases ending in conviction. 95 pst. Women who have been raped in Norway experience that there are no convictions at all. These types of lowthreshold measures can help, in addition to taking care of women and those affected, to include, among other things: evidence is ensured and a more active criminal procedure is provided. As you can see, this is a win-win situation compared to combating both violence and other types of crime, especially against vulnerable women. I hope that the funding system that is now in place, and I'm glad, helps to clear up a lot of the unnecessary work that has been done and that has actually gone about collecting money, so that we can now start taking care of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e799	Violence against women is a violation of fundamental human rights and a serious social problem. As a justice policy, it is important to me that the police and the judiciary give priority to strengthening women’s legal certainty through various measures. But equally important to me is the life situation of women and the well-developed supply of crisis centres. Crisis centres today face many challenges. One of the biggest challenges is whether the centres are able to address the changes in society that we see today. In recent years, we have seen an increase in users of centres being far more minority women than before. This means that the centres must have the capacity to change the offer to users. They have a chance to do that today because they have a free role. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party seem to believe that the crisis centres will provide a much better offer by means of a law enforcement. But unfortunately it's not like that. One cannot solve social policy problems with lawmaking. I've visited several crisis centers, and what's impressed me when I get there, it's the warmth, it's the goodness, it's the female community and the belief that one person can help another by just being present. That's why I think it's sad that we're now going in a direction where we're about to destroy a lot of that foundation and the idea on which the crisis centers are built. With a law enforcement, we've got a heavy-duty and bureaucratic institution instead of the free and independent centers that are there on women's premises. Responsibility for crisis management should remain municipally anchored. An increase in the ear-marked state grant to 80 pst. will reduce the financial liability of municipalities. I am concerned that this could weaken the interest in good and cost-effective solutions and the intercommunal committed cooperation. It is absolutely essential that local politicians also be held accountable, and that local politicians also look and take on board the fact that there is violence and abuse in their municipalities. Finally, I would like to say that I am very proud of the work done by the Co-operation Government in relation to family violence, and I still have great faith that these problems are not only solved by earmarked grants or regulatory regulations, but that we are also taking on board the major challenges we face, and that there are other measures that must also be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e820	I feel reason to dwell a little bit on something that has been a lot of the strength of the crisis centre offer, namely a very strong local anchoring. I am among those who believe in local self-government, and I believe that local anchoring and responsibility mobilization provide the offer with a strength that is essential and important for the job to be done. Reducing this responsibility, which I believe lies in the proposal that is on the table today, will very easily help to weaken the interest in the good and cost-effective solutions as well as in the inter-communal, committed cooperation. As former rapporteur, I have a lot of local experience that sometimes it can be very demanding with local and inter-municipal cooperation and responsibility. Nevertheless, it has challenged locally, it has mobilised locally, and it has contributed to the accountability of local authorities. We simply had to put these questions on the agenda at regular intervals. It was important for the crisis centre, but it was perhaps even more important for the professional and political environment of the municipalities involved in the daily discussion on how to prioritise resources, for example. in the case of the fight against violence. Close contact and cooperation with the local auxiliaries are also important. Therefore, anchoring the crisis centres at the same level as the first line service is important. It provides shorter lines of comprehensive solutions and reduces the opportunities for violent women and men to be caste balls between levels of government and services. Nearer 90 pst. by Norwegian municipalities today contribute financially to the operation of one centre or more, and I am concerned that we are keeping this commitment up. New ear tags do not contribute to this, rather on the contrary. Designation will very easily help to powder local responsibility and involvement in the priority of local provision to the population. I see that the crisis centres find it more predictable and perhaps comfortable with a larger designation, but I believe that local involvement and adaptation to local needs are better addressed by the fact that municipalities still have a financial responsibility, while approving the budgets. For me, there is a good reason to maintain a 50-50 distribution of financial responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e829	I have registered that the Labour Party expresses in a number of contexts concerns about the local economy, as well as in today's debate with the representative Torny Pedersen. It might be right to point out that the Workers' Party, together with the Government, is behind this year's government budget and in this way also the municipal economy. It also appears that the Workers' Party will cooperate with the Government in terms of the revision, and the press says that there is no significant increase for the municipalities. The Progress Party is promoting on its side in the context of a revised increase for municipalities of 700 million. kr. In my view, perhaps the Labour Party should moderate its criticism of the local economy somewhat when, in fact, you are responsible for it. I noticed that the Workers' Party spokesperson has thrown himself into the debate and expresses great concern for the victims, saying that we need to focus more on the victims. It's very nice to hear – there's music in the ears of the Progress Party. The problem is that we rarely see any concrete results from the Workers' Party in this area. After all, the Labour Party has governed criminal policy in Norway in essential parts of the post-war period, and the result is a starving police force, low penalties, prison cows and a minimal focus on the victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e840	In this case, I would like to highlight some points which may be difficult to see immediately, but which are equally important. Firstly, it is very important that we take seriously the volunteer work carried out at the crisis centres. We must not be so easily led to believe that if only the state takes over the funding, everything becomes so much better. Should the volunteering of all this work be gone, I think we've done a great and perhaps unrecoverable mistake. Government funding also comes from a location, and if you want to increase the government's share of funding, whether it should be 80 pst. or more, the money must be taken from somewhere. Those of us who do not believe in detonating the rule of action have three possibilities to find this money: either you have to find fresh funds – and that may be a challenge, to say the least – or you have to re-prioritize within the given framework. I am sure you can do that, but then you also have to say something about what measures might get less money to go with. The third option is to withdraw funds from municipalities that have spent on crisis centres. It would hardly be popular in the municipality of Norway, especially since one would probably have to draw up an extract based on accounts and thus would draw the most funds from the municipalities that spend the most on the crisis centres. In that case, the municipalities that have invested in the crisis centres would be punished, and then you will be responsible for what signals it sends out to the Norwegian local democracy. Last, but not least, there is a danger of sending out a signal to Norwegian municipalities that the worse they follow up local action, local volunteering and, ultimately, local service production, the faster some parties in Stortinget will see to it that the state enters and cleans up for them. It should be a cross of thought, especially for those parties that usually refer to local democracy in warm order.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e851	I can't wait when the representative Knudsen comes up here and says that I have now thrown myself into the debate and talk loudly about the victims, but that the Workers' Party is not anywhere when the decisions are to be made and work is to be done in Stortinget. It is the Labour Party that has promoted this proposal – one must read the text – and, of course, the Labour Party must also vote for the good solution that has come. But anyway, with all due respect, the discussion as to who does what etc. is really breaking indifferent to this question. It is more important than that, and therefore, in my contribution, I tried to emphasise that it must actually be the users of the low-threshold offer, the crisis centres – I believe that the same should also be done to a greater extent for other types of low-threshold offer – which should be the winners in such a debate. And we should be able to enjoy that. Then it must not be allowed to be covered by a local loss of commitment to violence if you are not allowed to take these rounds of debate on the economy of the crisis centres in the municipalities. Save me well! Think of all the hours, all the networks and all the work carried out year after year in the crisis centres to provide funding, which are clearly at the expense of users. If it were for the Right and other political parties to raise a political debate to put violence and its likes on the agenda, then we have come into a situation that I believe calls for entirely different political initiatives than to starve the crisis centres. So the Right Strategy in terms of being able to have this debate every year around the municipalities to talk about violence and its likes, is the jam sad. Here we should focus on the victims and say that they should at least have theirs. They shall not be dependent on such debates. I would say that it is not really discussed at all that they insulted in these kinds of cases should have such a low threshold offer. That's what you try to clear the road and in many ways try to make safer and more predictable. So finally, the representative Rafiq was about the question of funding. This is a classic case in relation to how a majority in this Chamber wants to manage the community's resources, and what the Labour Party and SV and the Norwegian left-hand side, as I see it, want. We just want a great deal of Community funding to be used for measures for those falling below the safety net. In fact, we want to give priority to such measures instead of giving, among other things. massive tax reliefs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e858	The representative of the Vorskrittspartiet, Ulf Erik Knudsen, is a member of the Arbeiderpartiet und Kommunekonomiet. Yes, we're also very concerned with municipal economy, but when we make a deal with other parties, it's giving and taking, and we got an increase in the municipal budget for this year. Then I want to go back to what goes on the Women's Violence Committee report and its contents. I also want to return to a person who was in the Women's Violence Committee, Judge Tor B. Jørgensen, who believes that, without legal requirements, the crisis centres have been given the will and ability of each municipality to prioritize the operation of the centres. Law enforcement would offer more equivalent offers across the country, and the Women’s Violence Committee is also proposing that the state share of funding should be increased. I understand that the Right does not want to spend any more money on the municipalities. In this context, it could be that there was a little bit more in the municipalities. We know about that. But I am surprised that so many from the Right in this matter do not see it as the Women's Violence Committee and the people who were sitting there have come. I think that's very regrettable. Why do we put down samples that are going to work out for us, if we don't take it into account when it comes to the big things? It is the great things that go on economics and lawmaking, with which the Women's Violence Committee has come, and here is the great responsibility of the matter we are dealing with. They have made many more proposals for structuring, that is okay – we agree – but that is what is important. I am surprised that the government parties have so little confidence in that sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e867	I needed to say a few words now at the end, because it's made a impression that the government parties have been completely silent in relation to the matter of the crisis centres in the municipal proposition. That's why I want to come up with some facts that might make you see that we've actually done a good deal of work that will improve the state of crisis centres. Firstly, it is new this year that if the centres are able to obtain an additional allocation during the year, it will be possible to re-apply – only by September – in order to obtain a trigger from the country. This will help improve the state. And besides, with a 50-50 funding, the central managers had to spend a lot of hours on getting the 50 pst funding, it's said by a lot of speakers. The same will be the case with 80-20 funding, they will still have to spend a lot of time providing that 20 pst funding. They have to contact as many municipalities and use as much energy on this as they would then have 50 pst. in. That's why we've been working on the fact that the state's child protection and family protection are to be part of that drag aid, they're to be involved in getting in touch with the municipalities, getting into long-term agreements, getting something that's professionally anchored and that can help to increase professional competence in crisis centres. It's a good arrangement. So it must not be said from this room that there has been no intervention to improve the state of crisis centres. In addition, an accessibility plan is to be drawn up to see whether women have an offer in their vicinity and how it is covered in the country as a whole. We've been talking about worn crisis centers. Yes, there have been troubled crisis centres. The conversion in the House Bank means that not only can you get loans to build a crisis centre, but you should also be able to apply for loans for refurbishment, reconstruction and all that the crisis centres need. There must not be an impression that you have been sitting still. What we disagree about is the level of costs and how the public should contribute, whether there should be a distribution between the state and the municipality of 80-20. That's where the disagreement lies. I wish the rest of the room were also a little busy with the contribution and the help that the State's child protection and family protection will now be able to provide, so that crisis leaders can spend their time on running crisis centres and not on collecting money.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e878	I'm going to stick to what Dagrun Eriksen said, so I'm not going to repeat it. But I'm a little busy here with the Workers' Party. Both the representative Storberget and the representative Pedersen are going for a frontal attack against the Right and the government parties because we want a municipal anchoring. I think they're victims of selective oblivion. A year and a half ago, they said something quite different. Int. S. No 40 for 2002-2003 on the financing of crisis centres, reference was made to what the Municipal Committee said in its opinion. S. No 252 for 1999-2000 : ‘The objective must be to give greater opportunities for independent priorities locally and thus to strengthen local democracy.’ In the same setting – a year and a half ago – they took note of a note that it is “considered that it would be more appropriate to follow the plan adopted by the Storting... for this work, which includes: aim at integrating grants to municipalities into crisis response in 2004». In addition, they say: ‘This majority’ — i.e. the Workers’ Party, the Right Party and the Christian People’s Party — ‘considers, like the Ministry, that a postponement of the conversion to 2005, as proposed by the Women’s Violence Committee, will be problematic. This majority would stress the need to create a more predictable financing mechanism as soon as possible.’.» So this meant the Workers' Party less than two years ago, 21 November 2002. So the working party has turned around, it's neither predictable nor impressive. The representative of May Hansen had difficulties understanding how we could be involved in a municipal responsibility for this offer, while cooperating with the state child and family protection. Management of the grant and development tasks will be added to the State's child protection and family protection, which is already responsible for child protection. It is, of course, competence in relation to children, violence and violence in close relationships that is important, also for the other areas of action for which the State's child protection and family protection are the responsibility. Coordination on the exchange of competences between these sectors will strengthen the fight against violence as a whole. We've been busy about that. However, we are concerned that there must be a municipal responsibility for the crisis measures because close contact and cooperation with the local emergency services is absolutely necessary in order to obtain good solutions, both for women and for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e901	It is tempting to ask the representative Rafiq when she claims that the municipalities expect the State at Stortinget to come and clean up. It seems to me that the realities out in the municipality of Norway are totally unknown to this representative. What is happening today is that schools are being laid down, support contacts for both mental and physical disabilities are being removed, home care services for the elderly are being reduced, we have retirement wards and hospital wards, and we know that hundreds of people are being refused an application for accommodation or a place to unload. We also know that municipalities say no to support crisis and incest centers. Then it is tempting to ask the representative if he thinks this is a kind of strategy from the local politicians that they can come to the Stortinget, so that we – as the representative said – can clean up. It is also tempting to ask whether the representative believes that the municipalities speculate with the interests of the citizens they are chosen to care for, only in view of triggering government funds. So the representative said that if the tip is going to increase to 80 pst, it'll go beyond other things. Of course, if we use these money, either the state's expenditure will increase or we have to take it from elsewhere. Then I have advice to the Right's representative. On the right, the level of ambition can be reduced, especially in relation to tax relief, thus contributing to a simpler presence of both users of crisis centres and other vulnerable groups. I thought we in this room should refrain from suspecting the municipalities when it comes to the work they do, with a tight financial framework, to improve their supply. It applies to children, young people, the elderly and the sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e916	The representative, Mr. Sjeli, probably didn't really hear what I said in my post. I asked the council a question about the state child and family protection had the capacity to do this job in the municipalities. SV was initially attacked because we wanted everything left to the state. I think it was strange when this government has been a driver to move both family protection and child protection from the local level and the county to the state. Family protection has also been anchored in the municipalities around this country, and there has also been a lot of voluntary work. It would seem quite natural if these crisis measures had now been moved, that the crisis centres had also been moved. Otherwise, the state councils were in summer centers. The council said from this pulpit that all the women had an offer. The council knows as well as I do, because we had more rounds on this last summer, that this is saying different things. But what's clear is that it's not an offer when women are taken home to the employees throughout the summer vacation. It is not an acceptable offer for women and children to be in a crisis centre. With regard to the local freedom that the representative Rafiq spoke about, what strangles local democracy in this country today is the economy of the municipalities. We have a private wealth that's enormous, but actually you're sitting in the municipalities and taking your life off to do your legal duties. This government has helped turn local democracy into something quite difficult. Being a local politician is very difficult. In the case of the beggarund, which is about the state child and family protection to be done now, it is clear that it will be easier to beg 20 pst. over 50 p.m., because municipalities will support the crisis centres to a large extent. Government parties have been in it all along. Obviously, it's much simpler with 20 pst. than by 50 pst. And then to volunteer work: women have done volunteer work for many years. Health centres were also started by voluntary work from women — not remuneration that was acceptable, not social security rights. This must be over! This has proved to be an important and effective lowthreshold service. There have been countless reports. Now it's actually time for those who do this important job to get a decent salary level, and for the state to take over the responsibility for operating these centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e929	This single thing the representative refers to, we've been up in this room before. I think it is remarkable that one once again hangs out Moss crisis centre, who said yes to receiving a family, who an employee nevertheless chose to take home, and Moss crisis centre heard nothing. On behalf of this crisis centre, which has never said no, I would therefore say that I think it is a little premature to raise this matter again. So to the main funding for the crisis centres, which still has to be 100 pst. from the public. When we talk about crisis centers, everyone may seem to be struggling and struggling. Personally, I've been to a number of crisis centres. If we look at the 50 municipalities that are not participating today, half of them are in South Trondelag and Rogaland. I have personally been to the South Tronde Team and am aware that the largest crisis centre there is at least boasting of the municipality of Trondheim. They say they have predictable conditions. This has been the case with a number of the crisis centres I have visited. There is not a crisis in all the crisis centres. I think we should have that picture with us. That's why maybe the most important thing about this case is the grips we take away from funding, which we actually agree on. We agree that the public should cover 100 pst. of the financing, of the addition of empowerment and management to the National Child Protection and Family Protection, of the establishment of an availability plan, and not least that the crisis centres are now covered by the House Bank’s resolution loan scheme. It is also to see the crisis centres in connection with the second thing we are now doing in public institutions, and to see the problem of violence in a much broader context than before. I think it's going to be of great importance to the crisis centres in the future. The picture is somewhat more nuanced than what the opposition expresses from this pulpit when they say that about all the crisis centers are in crisis. Very many have predictable conditions – they do!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e937	To the representative Eli Sollied Uppereas of the Central Party: I think she is pulling my post far too far, and I also believe that the post she made shows a fundamental mistrust of local democracy. And that's exactly what I brought up in my post. What Eli Sollied Överaas is trying to say is that the municipalities themselves are not able to take care of the tasks that the citizens need, and therefore the state has to go in and clean up. I didn't suspect the municipalities. What I pointed out in my post was simply that this would be a wrong signal to give from Stortinget. Especially in the case of crisis centres, municipalities have already been very good at prioritising this action. There has been a steady increase in the income of crisis centres in the last three years. However, Stortinget will go in and override the efforts made by the municipalities, and that is what I pointed out in my post. It would be imbued of part of the parties in Stortinget to change something that already works well. Of course, there are some crisis centres that are in a difficult situation, but then we have to initiate measures aimed at the individual crisis centre, and not at all, for most people work quite well out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e946	The representative Sollied Superior has held the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e949	Yes, the municipalities take responsibility – that's exactly what they do. When the representative says that it gives a wrong signal when the Storting will increase the government bill from 50 pst. until 80 pst., I have to say that I don't understand what the representative means by that. At the same time, she says it works well, but that's exactly what it doesn't. The signal given to us as big business representatives is that every fall when the local government budget is to be set up, with the advice of the councillor, we are created unsickness and unrest, because one is afraid of these offers being cancelled. I hope that the representative, Rafiq, will recognise and take on board the fact that there is a majority in this Chamber who will adopt a financing mechanism 80-20.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e958	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3099]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e974	At the request of the family, culture and the Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e983	Ulf Erik Knudsen is given the floor on behalf of the case-speaker, Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e986	Document No The 8 proposal we are discussing today contains the following specific points: 1st@item: inlistbox Statutory offer of incest centers as well as a financing plan where the state enters with 80 pst. and the municipalities with 20 pst.2. Creation of a 24-hour national and free emergency telephone for incest residents3. Plan for future establishment of incest centres4. Financing of a joint secretariat for the Incest Centres An overall committee would stress that the work of the Incest Support Centres is a very important complement to the public offer provided by the first and second line services. It is important to stress that incest centres and crisis centres should not be comparable in any way. Therefore, the majority of the Committee considers that this document No. The 8th proposal is so large and extensive that we want the Government to present a separate case on this until the fall. As I said, the Incest centres are a supplement and not a substitute for the existing offers to incestants. The centres are meant as a place where incestants and their relatives can receive advice and guidance in relation to various public aid measures. In addition, they should also be a meeting place to meet and talk to others in the same situation. Therefore, neither are the same requirements for an incest centre as for a crisis centre. Incentive centres, therefore, are not an acute crisis response for the vulnerable, but a place to process experiences and to inform themselves in the public sector. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health are carrying out an investigation at both local and regional level to address the service needs of victims of violence and trauma. The Committee considers that, in view of the continued operation of the incest centres, it is urgent to find a solution on how to organise and finance them. That is why the majority of the Government is asking to come back with a proposal on its own matter for the autumn. In the case of day-to-day emergency telephones, there are already a number of emergency telephones that also receive telephones from incestants and can refer them further. The majority believe that the proposal for 24-hour emergency telephones for incest holders needs to be seen in the context of the government investigation. For the last two points of Document No: The 8th proposal, on a plan for setting up incest centres and a joint secretariat for centres, considers that it is also natural to consider this in connection with this investigation by the Government. This will give the Storting the opportunity to get a complete picture of the incest centres and of the need and competence required, while at the same time getting the financial overview of what this will actually cost. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1018	It is good that the Stortinget now has to debate the issues surrounding the operation of our 16 incest centers. They have become like a ‘steer child’ in relation to the crisis centres. They are less established and often little known among the population. This does not mean that those already established do not work, but that the authorities need to review the structure of the centres in order to find the rightful place these incest centres should have in the future. With regard to funding, the same template as for the crisis centres is currently being used, with a 50-50 distribution between the state and the municipality. This gives very little predictability, because there are so few municipalities behind it. Once again, we believe that the poor local economy is helping to make this problem even bigger. SV's proposers want the same funding as in the new financial instrument that will be adopted today for the crisis centres, 80 pst. from the State and 20 pst. from the municipalities. I can agree with that in the long term, but I think it's important to get the challenges incest centers face. The organisational structure and competence are important issues in this context. It is very good that the government still wants a earmarked funding. I also hope that the future investigation will say something about the lawfulness of this offer. This should be followed by the VISA report, which believes that there should be at least one incest centre in each state. Incest centres shall initially be a supplement to the auxiliary public utility, but several places are the most likely to act as a substitute. It may be that, like the crisis centres, this too is a low-threshold offer and that it is easy to visit such centres. Sexual exploitation of children is usually theft of childhood, and these children are entitled to help from people who have the skills to help. It should be a good help to those who have damage that is not as visible as after incest and rape. Feelings are damaged, safety is removed and trust has been abused. But it is also important that those who commit such abuses can also be helped. There's a lot of talk and attention around this with child pornography. This is an industry that needs to be combated across borders. I'm afraid that all the attention that's around that industry helps us to forget that more and more children are becoming incisors in our own homes. I hope we can do something to have two thoughts in our head at the same time, so that we can combat such raw egoism as it is to abuse children sexually. It's when the late injuries become too heavy to carry alone, that so many applicants for the incest centers, but also children receive and visit the centres. The auxiliary equipment can then be started at an early stage, and the hope is that the damage is not irreparable. The working party believes it is urgent to do something about the structure of the incest centers, and I thought so too. But the municipal bill for 2005 says: ‘The Ministry of Children’s and Family Affairs intends to continue the part of the grant scheme to the incest centres as at present, but to be assessed in particular in the context of the 2006 budget.’;» The working party could not, under any circumstances, push this forward so far in time. It's kind of a limit on how to expose issues to such serious issues as depriving children of their childhood. This applies to both boys and girls. We are therefore very pleased that the entire Committee agrees that there is a need to get a case on the whole of the operation of the incest centres during 2004. In the case of a 24-hour national emergency phone, I expect this too to be taken into account when the government is going to go into the organisation of the incest centers. We have managed to establish a telephone for those who have problems with gambling addiction. Then we should probably also be able to get an offer to incest and violence victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1047	The government proposed last year's municipal bill that the state subsidy to the incest centres should continue to be earmarked, on the grounds that these were not well established and developed. The majority of the population decided as well as still known to designate this crisis response. Today, incest centres receive an earmarked state grant according to the guidelines of the Ministry of Children and Family circulars. It has long been widely agreed that today's financing system has many weaknesses, including: in relation to the economic predictability of the centres and systematic work to improve the quality of the services provided to users. Incest centres are an important part of the lowthreshold provision for young people, women and men who have been incested and sexually assaulted in childhood and youth. It is very important that this type of self-help offer in dealing with and getting on in your own life after such traumatic experiences is ensured. Incest centres are run by non-governmental organisations or as foundations. In the right, it is of the utmost importance that this voluntary action should be carried out. In a letter to the Committee dated 30 January 2004 relating to Document No: 8:17 for 2003-2204 underlined to the Ministry that more predictable framework conditions for the incest centres require a comprehensive assessment of the financing, management and possible legalisation of the incest centre offer. The right is pleased that a unanimous committee supports this assessment. With regard to the proposal of the Socialist Left on a 24-hour national emergency telephone, there are already such emergency telephones, which are operated by voluntary or non-profit organisations. These are also an offer for incestoves. Furthermore, we believe that this proposal should be seen in an overall context with the organisation of incest centres. The right further indicates that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health are in the process of monitoring both regionally and locally on the competence and service needs of victims of violence and trauma. We believe that this will be an important contribution to a comprehensive assessment of the future of the incest centre offer. I believe it is high time to raise the incest centres as a separate case, and that it is not treated as an additional matter in the context of the crisis centres, as it has so far been done. Therefore, the Right-wing Proposal for the Government to come back with a separate case during 2004, with an assessment of what the centres should offer and how the organisation and funding of the centres should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1066	Only 15 support centres are established for incest – 16, as the previous speakers, so it may be – around Norway. The ‘right to necessary health care’ of the Municipal Health Act is currently the basis for assistance and treatment for those who are victims of sexual abuse, but very few municipalities have preparedness and action. There are many municipalities that do not support an incest centre financially, which is understandable with poor municipal economy. The municipalities have major problems in financing their statutory tasks, so it is not realistic that we get an offer across the country if the centres are not legalised. Incentive centres must receive the same funding key as crisis centres, with a comprehensive, earmarked financing plan there 80 pst. are State grants and 20 pst. municipal grants. Many of the crisis and incest centers are wall-to-wall, and they have the same problems in financing their operations. Incest centres are low-threshold targeted services. That's a good offer. It is necessary to ensure a good economy at the centres in order to provide them with predictable operations and the possibility of employing qualified personnel. There is a risk that more incest centres will have to be closed or reduced. Incest centres are established to a lesser extent than crisis centres; they are less known, more taboo and supported by fewer municipalities. The depleted community economy means that we get a different offer to the incestants. This is not satisfactory. SV proposes to create a 24-hour, national and free emergency telephone for incest residents. Existing emergency telephones do not meet this need. Incest is a problem area where knowledge is largely lacking. The Committee has made that clear many times. Those who serve this phone must have the necessary background and competence so that they can provide adequate help. For the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002 the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg adopted: ‘The government is asking for an investigation into the situation of sexually abused children and their families in Norway with a particular focus on case-law, treatment provision, follow-up and competence.’ It's important that we get a mapping in place that also needs to focus on boys, because it's claimed that assault against boys is underreported. SV also promotes proposals for a plan for future establishment of incest centres and points out that particular needs of men exposed to exposure need to be assessed. There is a great need to get a better basis for meeting this extremely serious problem we are now facing. It's beyond our ability to understand how serious this is for children. Many people have late injuries, which they have to deal with for the rest of their lives, because of lack of treatment, because they're being ignored, and because they don't have follow-up. This is unacceptable in a country like Norway, because we have the means to help. And it is clear that with long waiting lists for children in need of psychiatric services — children waiting longer in Norway for psychiatric services than adults — this is serious. I do not understand that we cannot today adopt the same funding for the incest centres as for the crisis centres. This is necessary, the Committee knows that. We can use the exact same argument that we've used in the crisis centres, and I hope we're not going to spend as much time as we've done in the financing of crisis centres. The Committee shall submit the following proposals for decisions: ‘The decision asks the Government to carry out during 2004 an assessment of the offer to be made by the incest centres, how to organise and finance the offer and whether to legislate the offer.’ SV is of course pleased that we have got the entire committee to join in on this. It was the case rapporteur who proposed it, and it is clear that it is better than rejecting our proposal. I think it is absolutely necessary that we in the committee focus on this in the future, because these children do not have the offer they need. SV then supports the proposal for a decision in a subsidiary way and has also supported the comments. But I'm also discussing our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1096	The representative of May Hansen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1099	First to the previous speaker: saying that SV has got the rest of the Storting on a proposal that they vote for subsidiary, says a little about how SV tries to take credit for most of the cases in this room. The incest centres and the victims of incest are a group often referred to as a tail hanger to the crisis centres. Often these two offers have been dealt with together and discussed in conjunction, although these are offers not addressed to the same group. The offer is also different for the two. While crisis centres meet women in an acute situation and provide protection and assistance in everyday life, incest centres are often more of an offer that enters women's lives in a late-onset phase. Incest centres have a shorter history than crisis centres. But there is no doubt that for many women have met with these centers and their understanding of what they have gone through, being absolutely crucial to being able to cope with the violent burden that it is, and the damage that a sheep suffers from being abused by their loved ones. These users have a huge need for treatment and different types of healthcare and psychiatric services, both in the first and second line services. In addition, it appears that the public utility has needed the personal experience of the incestuated persons on the aftereffects, etc. to provide adequate help. I am silenced by admiration for these women who take up the situation of themselves and others in such an admirable way. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee will agree that these centres should have their own review of their situation. It deserves the centres, but not least it deserves to be incested. In such a review, it is also important to have a human perspective. There are also some boys who are under attack and who need such an offer. Competence and knowledge-building are important in this field, and I am pleased that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs have launched a survey of the skills needs and service needs for victims of violence and trauma. We need to know more to be able to help better. The Government announces that it will bring a case on this matter in the 2006 budget. The committee wants a little faster progress, and it supports the Christian People's Party. But we are happy that it is given some time anyway, so it is possible to get a proper case. After all, the size has more accident than hastened the time for the submission of cases, cf. the issue of films that we treated before today. Sometimes it's a good idea to slow down if you want a good result. This matter deserves an absolute good treatment, both in the Government and then in the Stortinget. In the case of a crisis telephone, which is also mentioned in the proposal, I, as the case-rapporteur, would like to point out that there are a number of emergency telephones. In the view of the Christian People's Party, children and young people who are exposed to incest and who have an emergency need must be included in the work undertaken by the Government to look at the supply of emergency telephones and their possible coordination. Finally, I would like to congratulate the proposers, who put this matter on the agenda. It is an important topic and a need that I believe Stortinget has not finished discussing when this matter is over today. We'll definitely get back to this in more contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1118	As crisis-centred wear also incestcentra to finance operations say. In addition, as has been claimed by several here now, they are less established, and they are supported by fewer municipalities than crisis centres. This therefore poses challenges in securing a good and cost-effective economy. Therefore, it is positive that the Stortinget now goes in to ask the Government to carry out an assessment of what kind of supply incestcentra will provide, and how they will be organised and financed. It is good that there are different forms of operation, and that voluntary participation, as has been said earlier in the debate here, but there are also centres that are funded only by public funds, by municipalities, by county councils and by the state. In the case of incestcentra, it is important that users can turn directly to them, that there is a low-threshold offer, that this offer is free, that they add professionally relevant competence, and that it is a supplement to the public utility. The legalisation of tasks is by itself not a solution to the problems surrounding the financing of incestcentra, and the central party will therefore not support such a proposal. We're not going to start a new debate on the local economy, but I'm going to claim that the municipalities have enough problems in financing other tasks that have been legally imposed, but that are not followed up with large enough permits from this house. I therefore hope that the Government will conclude in its assessment that incestcentra will receive the same funding as crisis centre, i.e. 80 pst. State support and 20 pst. from municipalities. Finally, I am looking forward to the Storting getting this back as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1133	Incest centres have since their first establishment come under a government-designated grant scheme designed for the activities of crisis centres. This has secured the centres 50 pst. State grants, but this has also led to a significant increase in the funding mechanism and discussions around it on the premises of crisis centres rather than on the incest centres. This has rightly been cited as difficult for the centres. The primary target group of incest centres is different from the crisis centres, and the help they provide to users is less affected by emergency assistance and shelter, but to a greater extent by helping to live with difficult and often traumatic experiences in the past. The proximity of psychiatric treatment and secondary health services is therefore far, far greater. The distance to local services in municipalities is also greater. Incest centres have also been more vulnerable than the crisis centres as a result of the hospital reform, because they had more support from the county council than the crisis centres, which viewed them as part of a health service. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the Committee has agreed that the future management, organisation and funding of the centres should be addressed as a matter of their own. I want to cooperate with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs in this matter, and I have noticed that the Storting wants the matter during the autumn of this year. I would also like to remind you that, as part of the follow-up to the family communication, the Ministry of Children and the Family, in cooperation with other departments concerned, is now developing a strategy plan against sexual and physical abuse of children. This plan shall be presented as an out-of-date annex to the 2005 State budget. In order to strengthen the fight against various forms of violence, the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress was established on 1 January this year. This centre shall conduct high-level research, development, education and guidance. The new centre includes the former units the Office for Disaster Psychiatry, the Psychosocial Centre for Refugees, the National Resource Centre for sexually abused children and the Competence Centre for Victim Work. The Centre shall include, inter alia: cooperate with Alternatives to Violence. I believe that cooperation and the exchange of knowledge between incest centres and these environments of competence can help improve efforts in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1154	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1157	We are struggling to structure our low-threshold services, both the crisis centres and the incest centres. At least today's debate has clearly told us. I am surprised that the Government will continue to deal with these issues in time, as stated in the 2005 municipal bill. Does the Council of State agree that this withdrawal is in time for the third person, those who need the help? Does the Council of State mean that with the decision we are making today, now that we're finally in the initial pit to get also incest centers where it's going to be like that? Does the Council of State think that there should be a centre in each state?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1166	It's true that we've discussed a lot of structure. At first I want to clarify that the Government, and in particular I, who is responsible for this, do not want any extraction of an important matter. But when we first go into the incest centers more specifically, it's important that we do this thoroughly. And the ministry has assessed it this way in advance of the proposal we made in the municipal proposal, that we might want to have some more time than for example. until the 2005 budget. It's only a short time before it's to be beaten. The Stortinget has now made a different proposal, during this year, and we have to deal with that. In terms of structure, I don't want to answer yes or no whether we should have an incest center in each state. We have 20 incest centers today, and they're spread a little bit different geographically. There's a longer way to an incest center today than to a crisis center. They are also linked more closely to what we have now regionalised, health businesses. It will therefore also be important to look at local or regional organisation in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1175	I'm very pleased with a lot of the work that is now being done across departments; I think it's absolutely necessary to get what we want. This is a difficult area in which we have had very little competence in Norway. I think the Council of State is taking it seriously and has done a job that will be important in the future. A survey has just been carried out in Sweden to monitor sexual abuse of children. According to what we adopted during the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2001–02, that we want an investigation, I think it is quite important to compare the different Nordic countries. There will also be a report from the Nordic Council this year, which has looked at and surveyed the growing conditions of children in different countries, so it would be very, very useful if Norway had now got this in place. Will the Council of State take such an initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1184	First, thank you for your words. It's very important, as the representative says, that several departments work together in these matters. Like what the representative said in his first post, it is incredible that such things can happen to so many children, whether in Norway or in other countries. With regard to monitoring in Sweden, it is interesting to follow it. I will include the input from the representative and first contact the new national knowledge centre, because it will be the right address, I think, to have such a type of mapping carried out. I can't answer if they're already running, but I'll take it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1193	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1196	I am very pleased with the attitude of the committee that is present today in this matter. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the work against children and young people who are subjected to violence and abuse, and I am concerned that the offer to incestants is maintained and well maintained throughout the country. I've been following the work for a long time, especially in Westfold, where we have the Vestfold incest centre, which does an important job and offers a good deal to those who need it. I am therefore pleased that we are handling this matter in a good way here today. In St. prp. No 64 for 2003-2004 on local democracy, welfare and the economy of the local authority, the Government writes that the financial instrument for the incest centres should be assessed in the context of the 2006 budget. The Christian People's Party has felt that solutions need to be found, both in terms of what the centres are to offer and in terms of how the centres are to be organised and financed. The activities of the incest centres must be seen in conjunction with the other auxiliaries and the ongoing work on the overall financing system for the crisis and incest centres. It is necessary to clarify where the future management and financing responsibilities of the incest centres should lie, and not least in the light of the review of the financing of the incest centres, in order to ensure a better and more predictable economy. Users of incest centres will need treatment in different forms of healthcare and psychiatry, so it is important that incest centres are raised as a matter of their own, including: to review the future structure of the incest centres. The Christian People's Party is very positive that such an assessment is made during 2004. This work should assess the provision to be made by centres and the organisation and financing of centres. The Christian People's Party therefore wants to develop a comprehensive policy and offer for different groups who are subjected to sexual abuse, especially children and young people. We have to stand together to get good solutions for this work. I want to underline again the important work that the support centres are doing against incest, and especially the Vestfold incest centre, which I know best. They are a very valuable addition to the public offer provided in the first and second line service. Support centres shall be a place where incestobers and their relatives can go and obtain advice, guidance and referral to the auxiliary official. They are meant to be a place where you can come and talk to others who have been in the same situation, and thus also process some of their experiences. I know that I'm just being done at the Vestfold incest centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1211	I'll be very short. It is a response to the representative Dagrun Eriksen, who finally praised SV for putting this on the agenda, while wondering why I took the credit that SV would vote subsidiaryly for a proposal. What is quite clear is that this case has SV put on the agenda throughout this period. I'm proud of that. I regret, of course, that the proposal put forward here could not be supported, because it would have been a natural follow-up to the crisis centres. But of course, I'm glad that the entire committee is concerned about this, and that we are now agreeing on a proposal to make an investigation. I think the debate has been good, and I think we have the same intentions. I am also pleased with what the Council of State has said here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1222	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3099]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1237	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1246	The background to this matter is a Document No. 8-proposals by representatives Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and John I. Alvheim to facilitate the granting of the right to decide whether patients should be offered medically assisted rehabilitation. Drug users, after drug reform, now have the same special treatment requirement as other patients, and they have the same rights as others under the Patient Rights Act. An overall committee stresses that patients suffering from drug dependence are entitled to the best qualitative treatment available. The majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, consider that, in order to ensure this qualitatively best treatment, responsibility for medically assisted rehabilitation should continue to lie in the regional centres of specialist health care, the so-called LAR centres. These centres shall continue to be the basis of this treatment, as the majority sees it, as part of a comprehensive arrangement in which many bodies have a responsibility. The minority, the Labour Party and the Advance Party do not agree with this, and believe that provision should be made for the right to decide whether patients should be offered medically assisted rehabilitation, regardless of the specialist healthcare and LAR centres, as I have understood it. In the light of the wishes of the majority for the best quality of the examination and in view of the fact that LAR centres are best placed to ensure this even in the future, the majority of the Committee agrees that the proposal in Document No. 8:56 is rejected. I expect representatives of the minority to explain their views later in the debate. Drug users are a group of patients who are strongly down-prioritised in the Norwegian health system. The occupational environment estimates that the need for treatment covers about 10 % of the total population. 7 000 heavy injecting drug users, with only 2 400 of them being treated. The waiting time is very long in many places — somewhere up to two years. Unfortunately, we know that many die in this waiting time. The Committee considers this to be totally unsustainable and therefore believes that targeted action should be taken urgently to ensure a significant increase in the treatment capacity of these patients. The government says they have the goal of terminating the waiting lists for LAR. The majority, the government parties, the SV and the Central Party stress this and state in their comments that both the revised national budget for 2004 and the future state budgets must be increased in order to achieve this. This is to be seen as a clear marshall from this committee majority to the Government. As a follow-up to this, I am pleased that an overall committee is behind the following suggestions in the setting: ‘The size calls on the Government of the State budget for 2005 to submit a plan to increase the capacity of the treatment and rehabilitation provision of drug users.’ The majority also emphasises that, according to the Patient Rights Act, drug users are entitled to be assessed by a LAR centre within 30 days. And the majority ask the Minister of Health to clarify the responsibility of health businesses to fulfil this in their governance documents. Despite the increased capacity of LAR centres and clear rights attached to the Patient Rights Act, there will still be a waiting time for investigation and treatment. The Committee stresses that it is not acceptable for patients in such waiting queues to remain without any treatment provision during this waiting period. The majority of the Committee therefore points out that the Minister of Health, by letter to the Workers’ Group, dated 12 May 2004, states that prescription of addictive drugs may be initiated by the decision-maker when a patient is authorised for treatment, but it takes time before treatment under the LAR Centre can begin. In a National Health Inspectorate, this period is limited to three months. However, the majority believe that this period should be extended beyond these three months after a concrete, individual assessment in order to prevent interruption of treatment. Nor is it acceptable for patients waiting for investigation and authorisation for medically assisted rehabilitation to remain without an offer. In this context, the majority point out that, in their supervisory practice, the State Health Authority considers that prescription of addictive medicinal products from the decision-making body can be considered appropriate in some specific cases. But we also record that the Minister of Health in that letter to the Workers' Party's largest group is of a different opinion. This uncertainty is felt by the majority to have been cleared up in the current evaluation of medically assisted rehabilitation, which is due to be completed by the autumn. Finally, I would recommend the committee's recommendation in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1283	I will try to explain in more detail why I have been present as the proposer for the document in question. The 8th proposal. I would like to say that, on a principle basis, I believe that opiate addicts who want and need treatment for their suffering will receive that treatment, in the same way that everyone else is treated for their suffering. I will explain through this post what I mean by that, and why I mean it. However, let me start with the following starting point: the experience I have after three years in the Social Committee suggests that once you have injected heroin, for example. For a few years, it is very difficult to become drug free. A lot of people do it for a short period of time, but a lot of people have relapses. A very large proportion of these drug addicts will depend on medically assisted rehabilitation. Many will actually have to get drugs for the rest of their lives. This applies gradually to a large number of people. It's hard to estimate exactly how many are involved, but there are thousands of them. I believe that very many of these patients can get full treatment of their permanent staff. That means that I believe that the district attorney must be able to decide to initiate and carry out medically assisted rehabilitation. But then it's very important for me to stress that it doesn't mean that I think it's all about drugs, that it's all about just being able to prescribe chemical drugs, and that it will represent a fully-fledged treatment scheme. There are very clear conditions attached to my thinking about the role of the prescriber in relation to this patient group. The decision-maker shall qualify for the right to initiate such treatment; he must have knowledge of medically assisted rehabilitation. This is not a question of liberalisation. There is no question of changing the conditions for those who should be able to receive such treatment. And there's to be a comprehensive rehabilitation offer. The decision-maker must initiate work on an individual plan, where an overall approach must of course be taken, such as: social services must play a major role. I believe that this is a responsibility the decision-maker should be able to take over this patient group. I believe that the LAR should exist as a second-line service, not only to guide the first-line service, but also to receive patients with special needs. What lies in this idea is in no way that the proposal involves the liberalisation of medically assisted rehabilitation. It is not a proposal that this should not be seen in an overall rehabilitation context. But that discussion, to a very large extent – and probably rightly – has been about – is whether the decision-maker should be able to take responsibility for participating in a comprehensive rehabilitation scheme. I believe that both on the basis of the fixed medical system, and not least on the basis of what we have adopted relating to the individual level, the determination must in the future be prepared to participate in such a demanding, comprehensive rehabilitation scheme as medically assisted rehabilitation. I would also like to stress that the proposal by myself and the representative Alvheim is an investigation proposal. The proposals of the minority are as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to decide how to facilitate the granting of rights to prescribers to decide whether patients should be offered medically assisted rehabilitation.’ The proposal is therefore a proposal to start a process. I'm a loser. Another abuse should have said – I think then of Olav Duun: ‘Nothing is more significant than the odds of a new thought!’ I feel convinced that one day we will be there that the decision is the one who is primarily responsible for initiating treatment also to drug addicts. We're not there yet, but the day is coming, I feel convinced of that. With that, I want to address the minority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1310	The representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1313	We all have a responsibility for the fact that the overall supply of health and social services to drug users has not been and is not good enough. In particular, the provision of healthcare has been very poor. For a long time, there has been a professional ideological discussion about whether drug abuse is a disease or whether it is a result of social conditions. I would like to remind you that the Social Committee, when dealing with Rusreform II, in many ways, parked this discussion. We said that what causes drug abuse is not the point, but that many years of drug abuse leads to a disease situation that requires drug users to be defined as patients, with patients’ rights. But we also said that many years of drug abuse have led to a number of important years of development in another society, with different rules, different standards and a completely different culture. One has missed education and work experience. That's why the fight against drug abuse is not just a fight against the Russians, but also a fight to get back to society. In other words, a pill is not enough. Social, health and rehabilitation services are also needed. This is where I see it as a great paradox that the Labour Party and the Progress Party can stand together on this proposal. The fact that the Progress Party only focuses on the medical element and is opposed to today's system with a significant emphasis on social rehabilitation is no surprise. But that the Workers' Party has begun to move in this direction is alarming. It is alarming in this matter, but unfortunately we have also seen it in a number of other issues related to the supply of drugs to drug users. I would like to remind the representative Hanssen that the capacity in medicine-assisted rehabilitation has more than doubled since the time he himself was in government and had his responsibility in relation to this. There is no one who saw until those degrees have done a job to improve the overall supply of this group, as the current Minister of Social Affairs and Health. However, we are all concerned that there are still cows. Therefore, the Government has also proposed to increase the capacity of the revised national budget. The objective of the 2004 State Budget of removing the queues in this area is at stake. So that's not the situation description we disagree about, but literally the medicine. We've had cows in many areas of health care. There have been major political debates, but I have never heard today, before in this matter, some politicians propose as a solution to the queue problem to reduce the professional quality of the offer! But that is the solution of the Labour Party and the Advance Party to this group. In fact, unlike the Progress Party, the Labour Party believes that there should be social follow-up and control of the abuse. However, they cannot seriously believe that individual decision-makers can handle this in the same way, or better, as the multi-disciplinary environment of the LAR organisation can handle it. I have not heard a single recognised professional community argue for this solution through this debate. I would also like to remind you that the Association against Drug Abuse, which organises many relatives and former drug addicts, strongly argues against this proposal. The medical association is also strongly opposed. What is common to these organisations and trade unions is that they point to three main strategies: increase capacity within today’s systemfocuss on quality within today’s system – we need a stronger emphasis on social rehabilitation and not least: don’t forget to increase the capacity of treatment services that lead to a drugfree life There are three strategies that I fully agree with. That must also be what is prioritised in the future budgets. The proposal from the Labour Party and the Progress Party is an experiment that we do not need to expose Norwegian drug users to. We have experience both from our own close past and from other countries that show that this results in poor results. France has a scheme in which general practitioners may prescribe Subutex for up to 28 days. The experience gained from them shows, among other things: that there is a significant illegal circulation of this drug and a widespread polydrug use, and that the prescription is not followed up by adequate psychosocial measures. We also have similar experiences from doctors in Norway who are breaking the legislation today. In this way, public assistance has been reduced to some kind of lengthening of drugs, without doing anything about the cause of addiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1347	First, a brief comment on the history description given by the representative Bent Höie in relation to the Labour Party and the Advance Party in relation to the very concern we are now debating. If it had not been for the Labour Party and the Advance Party, we would not have had the offer in Norway today for the drug addicts we now have. We have even changed the law. There has been a fight with this government, too, and especially with the Right and Christian People's Party. If you're going to give a history description, it has to be fairly correct, sir. Representative Bent Höie! The progression party cannot accept that almost 5,000 drug injectors who need drug rehabilitation with methadone or Subutex are not currently receiving it. Nor can the lot accept that more than 500 patients who have been investigated and authorised for such treatment have up to two years waiting time before starting treatment. The consequences for these patients waiting for methadone can only be imagined. In this context, I refer to the serious increase in the number of overdose deaths that have occurred in Oslo in recent days. From 1 January 2004, responsibility for the processing of data was transferred from social legislation to health legislation, and from that time on health businesses became responsible for providing medical rehabilitation to drug addicts, a treatment right enshrined in the Patient Rights Act. The amendment would result in the removal of special care in the field of rural areas under social legislation. This consequence does not appear to have been taken into account by the Government, as LAR centres are still being maintained. The previously very restrictive assessment of the individual drug addict must be maintained. Per. the current date is that LAR must be in the process of approval in order to be able to provide legal treatment with methadone or Subutex at all. In my opinion, this is completely meaningless, and special care is maintained, from which we were to leave, and which in many cases affects the individual drug addicts very seriously. Such a situation seems to stand out today, it is a fact that the LAR centres are a plug in the whole system that is both bureaucratic, costly and, above all, delaying in providing the individual drug addict with treatment as quickly as possible. As data controllers are now under health law, the medically assisted rehabilitation of drug addicts should be a task for primary health services, at the time of establishment, and the specialist health service. The Norwegian medical association’s negative attitude to such a practice is not only surprising, but simply incomprehensible. The drug addicts are also entitled to fixed medical prescriptions, and you cannot be rejected as a list patient in your regularity because you are a drug addict. But that's actually what's happening right now. I would strongly recommend to the Department and the Minister of Health to address this issue and ensure that Norwegian law enforcement officers treat the drug addicts in a worthy way in line with all of us other list patients. Fortunately, there is a positive trend in general practitioners and rehabilitation of drug addicts. I have suggested in the party's comment in the setting that maybe you should try a test scheme in some municipalities where there is a necessary number of decision-makers who are willing to enter into that task and who have competence for it. However, in this case these had to be exempted from the restrictive, bureaucratic and unnecessary LAR scheme. In any ordinary medical consultation, the doctor and the patient agree to a treatment arrangement, but in particular in the case of rehabilitation of drug addicts, the general practitioner shall be deprived of this more solar right as a doctor in a patient relationship. There is still an underlying idea that the drug addicts are not actually full patients. This is a cross of thought that we have to take inwards, both one and the other. It is sad to note that it was not possible to obtain a majority for the proposal promoted by the Workers' Party and the Progress Party. The problem of obtaining political understanding of drug treatment innovation has been recorded for the Workers' Party and the Advance Party for a long time. We have come a long way in the medical rehabilitation of drug addicts, and that is precisely thanks to the Labour Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1366	Drug-assisted rehabilitation, LAR, is currently established as an offer by all regional health businesses in line with Rusreform I. Drug users may receive medically assisted rehabilitation if they fulfil the requirements for such treatment. The proposal for a document No 8 refers to the fact that 550 injecting drug users who meet existing requirements were on the waiting list for treatment at the end of the year. The proposers will facilitate the provision of LAR to the decision-makers. It would be thought that the doctors themselves would be positive about this, but the proposal has been met very negatively by the Medical Association. They warn against prescribing drugs without the treatment being part of a comprehensive and multidisciplinary treatment provision and fear that drug care will be delayed for 20 to 30 years. Few disagree that LAR has a capacity problem, despite the fact that the number of participants in a national LAR scheme has increased from 173 at the end of 1998 to 2.431 per year. 1 January of this year. The Government aims to phase out the LAR waiting lists and has made additional resources available both in the budget of the year and in the revised national budget. The Christian People's Party expects this also to be prioritised in future state budgets. We want to remove the queues, but first of all we believe that in order to provide drug addicts who can benefit from LAR, the best quality treatment, responsibility for this type of treatment should continue to lie in the regional centres of specialist health care. In this context, drug treatment is to be carried out as part of a comprehensive treatment scheme, where many agencies are committed to co-operation around the individual participant. Unlike the Progress Party, which believes that the LAR and LAR centres have survived themselves and have become ‘a plug in the system’ – as they express it – the Christian People’s Party believes that LAR centres should continue as an important tool in the fight for a better supply for our drug addicts. Secondly, we fear that all attention and resources are directed to LAR. The Christian People's Party believes that abstinence must continue to be the goal of all drug treatment, and will give priority to this. We think that in the long run it gives the best quality of life. Many heavy drug users do not meet the criteria, nor do they want to be in a lifelong treatment with opiate substitution. We must not forget that drug-free treatment also has good results to show. The Social and Health Directorate is currently evaluating LAR, as there have been large regional variations in the organisation and practice of the offer. The Christian People's Party looks forward to the outcome of this evaluation. For us, it is important that the person undergoing medically assisted treatment receives good, comprehensive follow-up and post-protection in the municipalities with social services such as housing, work, schooling and other activities. Today, the decision-maker is not able to undertake medically assisted rehabilitation on his own. In exceptional cases, prescription may start at the premises of the prescriber during the waiting period, if authorised for LAR treatment. The counsellor on Narcotic Drugs states that the patient can ‘ exceptionally be prescribed appropriate substitution treatment for a period of up to 3 months’. We recognize that if the waiting time is longer, a vacuum may arise for the patients. This issue should be part of the evaluation, even if few people are involved. National health authorities also need to clarify this. Much positive has happened in recent years. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that you have received low-threshold health services that can catch up with users who are not even able to visit their permanent staff. Drug users have the same rights as others under the Patient Rights Act. As from 1 September, they shall, inter alia: right to be assessed by a LAR centre within 30 working days. We expect the right to an individual plan to be used as a tool, especially for heavy drug users, in need of long-term and coordinated assistance, with or without medically assisted rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1392	In the context of Rusreform I and II, this concern was placed under the specialist healthcare service, and thus these clients will eventually have the patient rights described by the Patient Rights Act. However, many people today are waiting for a treatment offer. It is estimated from the professional community that the treatment needs cover approx. 7 000 heavy injecting drug users, of whom only 2 400 are currently being treated. It is therefore clear that it is necessary to take some force here to get this as it should be. The majority in this case, where the centre party is involved, emphasises that LAR centres should continue to be the basis of medically assisted rehabilitation where medical treatment is carried out as part of a comprehensive rehabilitation scheme where many institutions must engage in committed cooperation around the individual client. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health is now commissioned to carry out an independent and comprehensive evaluation of LAR activities in the country, and that evaluation is due to be completed in November 2004. We have asked that this be presented to Stortinget in a suitable way, so that we can join in and discuss the way forward. It is important that one has LAR centres that can accept the clients who are to be treated and that there is no deterioration in the situation and suffering when one is waiting. As other representatives have also been involved, among other things: to have an investigation within 30 days of one of the important factors for good treatment. We believe that it is necessary to draw up a contingency plan for the treatment of drug addicts which clarifies the responsibilities of both the municipal and specialist health services and provides the financial resources needed to improve the treatment and rehabilitation provision of this patient group. This means a significant increase in capacity for the LAR centres. It is gratifying that the Government has invested some more money in the revised national budget, but we believe that it must also be a significant increase in the future government budget if these objectives are to be achieved. It is important to follow-up also in treatment services other than LARs, so that a wide range of treatment services around the client can contribute to lasting independence from drugs. That must be the big goal. As the representative Woie Duesund also pointed out, all the work in the area of the russian area should be free of drugs as an objective. Then it is important that the practical, social things are also there, in terms of housing, work, social contact and social rehabilitation. The National Health Supervisor’s Guide ‘Prescription and Prescription Medicinal Products’ states that the State Health Authority accepts that the prescribers can prescribe A and B medicinal products that are considered adequate for the treatment of the individual patient under the given criteria. The Minister of Health said in a letter that he is not really in favour of such a system and says no to such use of preparations, but it is very important that this grey-zone problem is clarified and investigated. We believe that the Ministry of Health must ensure that both the possibilities and limitations of doctors are clarified and the criteria to be used to print out medicinal products. drug abusers. It is important that these grey zones are also removed, and that a good form of treatment is provided, which is safe. We are afraid that liberalisation, because that is what we see in this proposal to some extent, can lead to more methadone than today being able to get on wild roads. Among other things, we have in my own country today experience that there is methadone where there is no methadone to use. We hope that the Government, in the light of this case – which it is commendable that we have a debate around, I have to say to the honours of the proposers – will bring about a clear escalation in the capacity of these LAR centres, that we will also receive measures at municipal level and in the sectors where action is required, so that there is a holistic approach, and that the waiting time for both investigation and treatment can be cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1409	Too many drug users are waiting too long for an offer of treatment, including medically assisted rehabilitation. Since the launch of this offer, there has been a sharp increase in the number of people admitted to treatment. At the same time, we have too many waiting lists. According to the latest reports of 1 May 2004, 2,584 were treated, while 573 were on the waiting list for treatment at regional centres. This means that the number in treatment has increased by 153 since the turn of the year, and that 23 more are on the waiting list. It is a clear objective of the Government to strengthen supply, both quantitatively and qualitatively. In recent years, the government has strengthened the action significantly in budgetary terms, at the latest in the draft budget of the year and in the revised national budget for this year. In addition, in order to ensure that all those qualified for this treatment receive it, we have made it clear in our own circular that exemptions from the intake criteria can be made from an overall assessment. Drug-assisted rehabilitation is defined by the drug reform as a multi-disciplinary specialised treatment for drug abuse, and LAR centres are part of the specialist healthcare service. The patient rights of drug users have been strengthened, including: in the case of a right to have their health status assessed within 30 days, the possibility of choosing the place of treatment and the right to apply. The specialist healthcare service has a central role in assessing and investigating the individual patient, decision on intake, specialised follow-up and advice and guidance on the first line. Research shows that prescriptions for medicinal products for rehabilitation must be accompanied by the necessary psychosocial support measures. The specialist healthcare service also has a central role to play in ensuring overall follow-up. The competences and experience built up here need to be continued and developed in order to ensure the proper and sound treatment of individuals. Decision-makers also play a significant role in the overall rehabilitation effort. The doctors, together with social services, refer, provide the necessary treatment for other diseases and contribute to the overall local follow-up of the individual patient. I need to clarify that medicinal products for use in medically assisted rehabilitation can only be administered to the individual patient when he is involved in measures approved by the authorities. This is made clear by the extradition order. Persistent write-offs other than those would be irresponsible and an option only exceptionally. I see that there may be a need to clarify the legislation in this area, as several speakers have pointed out. We are well in the process of a comprehensive evaluation of medically assisted rehabilitation, and the results should provide a basis for a review of organisation and legislation. Any changes to the regulatory framework should be based on this. As I have pointed out in my speech, the Government reinforces efforts in several areas with a view to strengthening treatment provision quantitatively and qualitatively. Regional health enterprises have a major and important role to play in this respect. The Ministry of Health is currently working on a strategy plan that will draw up national perspectives and strategies in the field of drugs, as part of further work to improve treatment provision for drug users. The focus of this work will be to ensure capacity and quality in the overall supply. Let me stress that I fully share with the representative Alvheim’s view that drug users should be treated in an equivalent way in healthcare. I believe that drug-assisted rehabilitation through the drug reform has been clearly placed as a specialised healthcare service, as part of the specialist healthcare service, and therefore there is no discrimination in referring from a generalist to a specialised offer. It takes place in all areas of healthcare. This should also be the case for drug users. It is an area that requires special competence, especially focus and multidisciplinary work, and therefore we should have such a specialised service. But once we've started a broad and independent evaluation of the LAR, it's because we're open for new thoughts to think about. We are open to change in the experience being documented. But I believe that not least the consideration of the users and patients affected by this suggests that any changes take place on the basis of such a broad and systematic evaluation. It's a process that we started for a while and that we'll finish, and we'll come back with the results to the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1428	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1432	I think it was a tidy post from the Council of State. I would like to ask a question based on the following attempts at a situation description: A heroin addict comes to his or her decision. The drug user is obviously very depressed, and your decision-maker considers that there is a real danger to life and health. The drug user is highly motivated and wants medically assisted rehabilitation. The decision therefore decides to apply for space. However, the decision-maker knows that there is a long waiting period, and believes that it is not appropriate to wait for treatment to start until the drug user is authorised in the LAR. He therefore wants to start an individual plan, start a rehabilitation scheme and in that context, for example. prescribe Subutex. After the Storting has finished the matter today, the decision-maker can do this, or can't he?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1439	I'm not going to pre-empt Storting's treatment, but as it stands at the time, it's not likely that changes to existing legislation will be adopted here today. This means that it will be the legislation that will apply until it has been evaluated – as we will do until November – and may have made changes to it. According to that legislation, and this is explained in the cancellation, the decision maker has the option of making such an offer on an exceptional and individual basis once the user has been admitted but is waiting to start a LAR. The Committee has clarified that there should also be exceptional continuity beyond three months if necessary, and that would be the answer to the question raised by the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1444	I look forward to the evaluation of the LAR project, and we're going to be willing to rethink with the ministry to make the situation easier for the drug addict to get the help he needs. The answer to the question from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen to the Minister for Health is no. Today, the decision maker does not have occasion to start Subutex treatment on a patient under the current law if he has not been in and assessed by the LAR. And here's my question to the Minister of Health: Is it really like this? And if it is such that it is forbidden, will the Minister of Health do something about it even before we get into the evaluation process, so that, after the description Bjarne Håkon Hanssen gave, for medical reasons, a permanent resident can save this patient's life without being prosecuted?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1453	I don't think it's necessary to sharpen the question the way the representative Alvheim is doing. The representative Alvheim knows well that there may be emergencies where a doctor has an overall duty to save lives. But it is not a general exception to the applicable laws and regulations to act in this way under any circumstances. There is no one who will prosecute a doctor who is in an emergency situation. This would be contrary to the basic principles of Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1458	First of all, I am pleased that the Council of State, as I see it, gives such a clear signal that the grey zone problem that has been faced by others is part of the evaluation of the LAR. So to the question. An overall committee is behind a proposal in the vote where ‘The Government of the State budget for 2005 asks the Government to submit a plan to increase the capacity of drug users’ treatment and rehabilitation provision’. The background for this is the unacceptable waiting time. The majority of the Committee also stresses the need to increase resources for drug treatment in the future budgets. The question is then: will the Council of State ensure that the plan to increase the capacity I require is included in the government budget for the autumn, also says something about the resource needs associated with this capacity increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1467	As I informed you in my main post, the Ministry is in the process of drawing up a strategy plan for the drug field, focusing on both the quality and the capacity of this important service. It is quite natural that this review also assesses the need for resources. We will present this in the 2005 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1472	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1477	LAR is far more than drug treatment where the heaviest drug users receive methadone or Subutex from their regularity. The LAR project was created precisely because it was recognised that drug treatment alone is not a professionally sufficient offer for this patient group. LAR or lowthreshold health services combine drug treatment with psychosocial follow-up of drug users and have been shown to be effective in reducing illicit drugs and have contributed to fewer overdose deaths. For this very reason, it is important that the offer is not eroded, but, on the contrary, strengthened and expanded, as the Cooperation Government has prioritised. Unfortunately, despite the high level of LAR spending in recent years, the capacity is still too low in relation to the need. The government has therefore given priority to LAR and to the care of drug users in its budget. The LAR-centre MARiT in Health Mid-Norway is also responsible for North Norway, a total of six counties, which has led to long waiting lists. In order to increase capacity and reduce the waiting lists in the north, the Government has arranged for a new centre to become operational in Tromsø from the fall of the year. NRK More and Romsdal communicated on 30 March that methadone treatment for drug addicts in central Norway and northern Norway has produced very good results compared to the rest of the country. More people stay restless over time, and more and more people get housing and work. The centre has invested a lot in good follow-up by each user. It's good! Helge Waal, professor at the Department of Clinical Drug Problems at the University of Oslo, claims that good follow-up can be one of the reasons why region Mid-Norway can point to such good results. I therefore do not see the LARs as a plug in the system, as the representative Alvheim said in his post. On the contrary, I see that they must be strengthened. The Medical Association stated at its consultation meeting in Stortinget on 16 February: ‘If the proposal to allow prescribers to prescribe drugs goes through, the Medical Association is concerned that the care of drug users is set back 20 to 30 years in time.’ We're seeing a positive development, and we're on the right track. We must avoid hasty, simple solutions that can be more damaging than beneficial.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1497	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3100]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1517	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3100]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1537	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3100]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1557	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3100]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1565	Then we are ready to vote in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1586	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, 3 and 4, by Torny Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 5 and 6, by Magnar Lund Bergo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish two separate budget lines for ticket support and film production on the State budget and to make ticket support an estimate.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1613	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the 2005 State Budget to investigate the ownership and operation of Norsk Filmstudio AS in a way that ensures the operation of the only professional film studio in Norway.’ The Central Party and the Workers' Party have announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1630	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that 6 pst is introduced. VAT applicable to the entire film industry from 1 November 2004.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote the necessary legislative amendments and measures to allow VAT to be introduced from 1 November 2004.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1652	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party: Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to file a case for the introduction of 6 pst. VAT on cinema and cinema and the necessary legislative changes with effect from 1 January 2005.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to evaluate the scheme with 6 pst. value added tax for cinema and film after a maximum of 3 years and return to Stortinget in an appropriate form.» The Labour Party has announced that they wish to support these proposals in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1687	The setting is from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, but the government parties have announced that they want to support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1701	During the debate, Mr Pedersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that offers of crisis centres are legalised.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1720	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1735	During the debate May Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The Storting asks the Government to propose a statutory offer of incest centres. The legislative proposal must be followed up by a comprehensive financial plan containing 80 p.m. are State grants and 20 pst. be covered by the municipalities. The Government is asked to present proposals in line with this at the latest at the same time as the proposed local economy for 2005.2. The Storting asks the Government to set up a 24-hour, national and free emergency phone for incest residents.3. The government is asked to submit a plan for the future establishment of incest centres. The specific needs of men exposed must be assessed in particular in such a plan and the implementation of the plan must be time-limited.4. The government is asking for the financing of the joint secretariat of the incest centres.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1774	During the debate, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1799	There is an alternative proposal from the Labour Party and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to decide how to facilitate the granting of rights to prescribers to decide whether patients should be offered medically assisted rehabilitation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1818	There is a vote on the proposal by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of Odelstinget on 11 May 2004: «By the end of 2004, the Government asks the Grand Duchy to bring an appropriate case to the Grand Duchy for the appointment of a special title for the examination of applications for a derogation from the Biotechnology Act relating to § 2-14 and proposals for regulations.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1836	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 11 May 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the establishment of biobanks for umbilical cord blood and to refer the matter to the Stortinge in connection with the Revised National Budget for 2005.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1852	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 3 June 2004: ‘The government is asked to review and provide an overview and an evaluation of the legislation on the exemption schemes relating to the various social security schemes based on public security.’;» It is the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party that are originally behind the proposal, so the President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09.ana.ud743e1876	There is no record.
