ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e39	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e44	I'll suggest Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e49	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt is considered unanimously elected President of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e63	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e74	This is a relatively difficult matter, and it's a matter that has a rather long history in Stortinget. On 7 March 1997 the Commission adopted the following Decision: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the genetic engineering law which prohibit procedures for cloning animals and higher organisms.’ This had, among other things: its starting point in the time of discussion about the cloning of the sheep Dolly, and how this could be transferred to human cloning. So the then Ministry of Social Affairs and Health promoted an odelstingsproposition on 30 May of the same year. It was over to a new expansion, where a new proposition was made, and it was adopted at Odelstinget on 23 February 1998. In line with what was then the debate, the Ministry of the Environment presented on 9 February 1999 a letter of consultation proposing a legislative ban on the cloning of animals, with a change in the genetic engineering law that corresponded to this. This was sent to 68 hearing bodies, and the response has been relatively large. There are 57 hearing bodies that have given direct answers. It is such that the Biotechnology Act covers all types of organisms, except humans, and regulates genetic modification as a specific subject area. The Law of Genetic Engineering imposes ethical requirements in relation to the approval of genetic engineering activities. The general legislation that respects the animal protection aspect of establishments with animals is the Animal Protection Act. Section 5 of the Animal Protection Act deals with genetic engineering practices in traditional breeding, while Section 21 regulates biological experiments with animals. In accordance with Section 21 of the Animal Protection Act, authorisation may be granted on application for the use of animals for experimental purposes. The use of animals in the testing and testing of pharmaceutical preparations, etc. is also authorised, but does not include the manufacture of farmed animals for medical purposes. If it involves significant pain for these animals, such activities will be prohibited under the general prohibitions laid down by law. A majority of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre state that the genetic engineering law should form the external framework of modern biotechnology, the aim of which is to ensure that modern biotechnology is exploited for the common good and in line with the ethical values of our society. The law does not cover techniques which do not involve the production and use of genetically modified organisms. On the other hand, the law takes into account that new techniques used to produce genetically modified organisms will be governed by the law, cf. Notes in Ot.prp. No 8 for 1992-1993 to § 4(d) of the Act. Cloning using e.g. ES cells and nuclear transplantation for the manufacture of genetically modified animals will therefore be covered by the Genetic Technologies Act. There is a relatively broad majority of those who point out that, on the basis of the Ministry of the Environment's consultation note, the Government has nevertheless allowed derogations to be made in order to allow the cloning of animals to be used. The Labour Party says that they do not want a prohibition law, they want to open up a law that provides the opportunities and does not rely on prohibition. The propulsion party has some of the same approach in the setting. They don't want a law order either. I expect the respective parties to argue for their views separately. But the Progress Party also goes a little further. They could also exceptionally allow the cloning of primates, i.e. monkeys and half apes. SV largely supports the Government with the basis of what is the proposition's suggestions and arguments. And for the person who was signed: the centre party believes that it is right to rely on restrictive lawmaking and lawmaking, and we are therefore in favour of a general ban on the cloning of animals – which I will come back to. I also expect that the various parties will explain the background of their positions, among other things. as regards this, with mandatory relative to consistent justification. A majority of the Committee of the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and the Center Party clearly distinguishes between the reproduction methods that occur naturally in nature and the cloning that occurs during nuclear transplantation. This majority points to the fact that extreme management of natural reproduction methods can also lead to unacceptable results. This applies, inter alia, to: in the case of pure-bred breeding, which may give rise to lyes and disease situations to which animals should not be exposed, at the same time as receiving a uniform correction in the case of diversity of species. Cloning by sharing fertilised eggs, so-called embryo fissures, is an easy way of making identical individuals, using the same method as by spontaneous formation of single-hulled twins or multiples in nature. These individuals are artificially created twins/multiples that are genetically equal. The centre batch underlines that embryo fragmentation also provides for the possibility to standardise the genetic background of laboratory animals for use in research, which is also stated in the proposition. There is some disagreement about this, but a majority, the Right, Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party believe that in the case of ethics and practices around cloning in nuclear transplantation, i.e. somatic cloning, there are many negative consequences known by such cloning, and also the ethical value base, which is based on respect for the individual also in the case of animals, as well as a precautionary principle in the field of ecology, the environment and, where appropriate, health damage, suggests that a person should have a clear ban on somatic cloning of animals. But part of this majority, Right, SV, Christian People's Party, is in favour of exemption from such a ban. We in the Center Party believe that a ban should apply to all cloning using ES cells and nuclear transplantation. An overall committee says that nuclear transplantation techniques used in the context of animal husbandry for food production are unacceptable. The same applies to the use of similar cloning techniques for the manufacture of pet animals and competitive animals, such as: dogs and racehorses. With regard to the use of nuclear transplantation techniques to restore endangered animal species, the Committee has noted that the preservation of biodiversity in this way is controversial and therefore it will not be supported that such a technique is used, at least not at this time. It's also in line with the Government's proposals. The central party's attitude to this law is to practice a precautionary principle that takes into account the uncertainties and ignorance that arise. We believe that due to the ecological system and due to the long-term health consequences for both animals and humans, it is important to be careful in this round. And we believe that the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association has a significant point when they say, among other things, in their hearing opinion. the following: ‘Although Norway cannot stop cloning in other countries, clear legislation for Norway can help to develop restrictive legislation in other countries as well. This is a well-known effect of international environmental policy.’ We think it is important to enforce a precautionary principle. We see that there are many interesting research areas that can be developed in relation to the cloning of animals, but we believe that embryo fission is a good way to do this research, just as a majority here in Stortinget has previously shown that the use of adult stem cells is a good way to conduct research at cell level and genetic research. In this case, you don't have the same number of individuals, we think it's full of somatic cloning. We also know that somatic cloning does not give the same genetic material. We know that the mitochondria in the egg cell gives different properties to the one from which the cloned animal is cloned, and that this cytoplasm develops different genes and different properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e114	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e117	Yes, I'm going to bring up the proposal that the Central Party is behind, and I'm going to inform you that we're going to vote against some of the legal paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e122	The representative, Ola D. Glütvold, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e125	The legislation on genetic engineering is important to prevent misuse of genetic technology for purposes that are both ethically and morally irresponsible. It is also important to ensure that genetic engineering innovations in systematic and controlled research can be used for human benefit. Cloning can be developed into an important tool for future research into living organisms, which can increase knowledge and understanding of different forms of life in nature. Cloning allows one to standardise the genetic background of experimental animals. This may have a significant impact on research in the health sector, including: in order to understand the trends in disease and thus to ensure the possibility of proper and effective treatment. This applies not least to the testing of medicinal products on genetically similar animals. Unfortunately, we know that the proper use of medicines is not obvious, even in a modern health system. We know of attempts at cloned pigs. This is interesting because organs for pigs are quite similar to human organs and are thus a possible source of transplants. Whatever the technique and whatever the purpose of animal cloning research, there is a broad consensus in Norway, and largely elsewhere in the world, that we should have clear rules and laws that prevent abuse. The present proposal broadly agrees on the actual content of animal cloning. The majority, government parties, SV and the Central Party, are in favour of a total ban on the cloning of primates, but provide for the possibility of applying for a derogation from a general ban on the cloning of vertebrates and crustaceans, where derogations are to be granted only for biological and medical basic research and for medical activities where the purpose of such activities is to arrive at new methods of treatment and prevention for humans and animals. There shall also be a good balance between animal ethical considerations and expected benefits. The Labour Party fully supports the actual content of the terms of the exemption and is pleased that the Government, in its proposal, and the majority in its position, have taken into account the counter-representations received in relation to the original proposal of the Ministry of the Environment on the total ban on animal cloning. The government and the majority regulate this by means of a prohibition law providing for the possibility of dispensation allowing for the cloning of animals, inter alia. in biological and medical basic research or medical activities. The Labour Party believes that one in this area would be more served by a law that actively regulates the activity of cloning animals for specific purposes. That is why we are promoting an alternative proposal that contains the actual content of the exemption. That means we have suggestions for new text in chapter. 3a Cloning § 11a, entitled «Authorisation of the cloning of animals». We believe that this is far more logical also in view of the attitude of the Government and the majority to cloning animals for specific purposes. We record that we do not get a majority in favour of this, but on the basis that we agree with the content, we will vote in a subsidiary way for the Government's proposal, which allows for exceptions. I bring this up with proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e147	The representative of Asmund Kristoffersen has drawn up the proposal for which he made a point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e150	The government's proposal to amend the genetic engineering law on the cloning of animals is balanced by applying the precautionary principle, while making important exemptions for biological and medical basic research and for medical activities. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee supports the Government's proposals for legislative changes. With regard to the cloning of primates, a total prohibition is envisaged, while a general prohibition may be waived in the cloning of crustaceans and vertebrates. Dispensation is granted only when the aim is to arrive at new forms of treatment and prevention for humans and animals. The majority emphasise the importance of a reasonable balance between animal ethical considerations and expected benefits. Such a restrictive attitude, albeit with important exceptions, acknowledges that animals, nature and the environment have a self-esteem in addition to being of value to mankind. Although we've always used nature and animals for our own purposes, that doesn't mean that, at a time when technological and medical innovation is constantly lacking, we can set limits on how far you can go without going on chords with important ethical principles. The basis for a leading commodity attitude on these issues is also the fear of developing cloning techniques on animals that can be transferred to humans. Although there is today an international consensus that human cloning is unacceptable, it may not be desirable to further develop techniques suitable for this purpose. In the case of imports of cloned non-genetically modified animals, progeny of cloned animals and their products, a unanimous committee shall support, with the exception of the line of the Central Party of the Government that it should be permitted. Not only will there be a breach of international trade rules, there is nothing to suggest that it will represent a health or environmental hazard. In addition, such imports will be subject to the same legislation as the use of cloned animals under the Genetic Technologies Act. Government parties, together with the SV and the Center Party, support the law, which take account of the beneficial cloning can be in medical development, while at the same time ensuring that important ethical boundaries are drawn up. However, the Centre Party is more stringent in some areas. As far as the Workers' Party is concerned, I am pleased that the party largely shares the Government's view on the types of exceptions to the law to be granted and on which premises this should be based. However, I register that the Workers' Party wants a regulation law rather than a prohibition law, but that they will vote subsidiaryly in favour of the Government's proposal and the majority's position. In the case of the Progress Party, no one can take from them that they contribute to making a nodular setting to anything other than boring reading. With lush language, at least to such a document, human space in nature is laid out in a way that attaches little importance to other living organisms and an entire ecosystem. I must also say that I am very impressed by the insight that the Progress Party must have into the Norwegian people's view of the issues raised by the proposition, when they expressed such deep doubts that the Government's proposal is compatible with the Norwegian people's view. Then I must be allowed to say that I am very uncertain about whether the Norwegian people honor a policy that does not underlie the precautionary principle, which opens up the cloning of animals without knowing what consequences it has for nature and the environment, and which allows the cloning of primates. The background to this case was Stortinget's wish for a ban, primarily in fear that the cloning technique used to manufacture Dolly could also be used to clone people. But this is also about how we can use different cloning techniques on some living organisms to promote research and medical development for the benefit of both humans and other animals. However, this is one thing where we have to run slowly. No one deserves to make hasty decisions, decisions that we are not sure about the consequences of. This can lead in the next round to a situation for humans, animals and the environment that is the opposite of what we want to achieve with the exemptions we are adopting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e176	Unfortunately, this government continues to strive to establish the most stringent laws in the world for everything relating to genetics and biotechnology, without being able to prove that Norway needs stricter laws than other countries, and without being able to rely on a basis of values that is not widely agreed in the Norwegian people. It is positive that almost all the consultation bodies in the field opposed the Government's draft consultation, where there was a total ban on the cloning of vertebrate animals. And it is, of course, positive from my point of view that the Minister of Health has listened to the very strong arguments that existed from a number of professional bodies, and that the bill of law today provides a derogation for the cloning of vertebrates on certain premises. However, the law is a prohibition law that should be totally unnecessary, and which hardly satisfies anyone other than those who has seen it as their mission to reduce the possibility for Norwegian researchers and Norwegian citizens to take part in the very rapid medical-technical development of biotechnology. In my opinion, the Storting should now assess whether the country is served by legislation in this field where the primary ban is on activities that can help sick people and save lives, and where it is up to the government that is always in place to allow or reject exemptions from the bans. In this proposition, too, there is another suspicion of the research environments that I believe is totally unfounded. Control of research should be entrusted to the research ethics committees appointed and entrusted with this task, rather than regulating as closely as Norway has done and seems to continue to do in this matter. There is reason to question whether the value base on which this draft law is based really has general support in the Norwegian people. In this context, I refer to the 2003 debate in the context of the Biotechnology Act, where, in my opinion, it was clearly stated that the Government’s value base in this case did not have general support in the Norwegian population – which also led to the law not being brought into force until there were regulations to be approved by the Stortinget. In assessing man’s value and animal’s value, a person must be able to interpret all technological and medical research and practice in such a way that the consideration of man has taken precedence over the consideration of animals. This does not mean, however, that we should not have a healthy and good animal health, where the value of the animals is also respected as far as it goes. Over a significant number of years, medical research has had to use animals, and it continues to use them. Of course, such experiments with animals are made as considerate as possible for the animals, but with regard to the priority between animal health and the necessary medical research to save human lives, human interests have always been decisive for research – and that is what I believe it must continue to be. In my opinion, regulation in this field must ensure that the Norwegian people have easy access to explored medical achievements that can save lives and prevent disease. The research and production of such new land gains should also involve the Norwegian research communities and Norwegian clinics. The government emphasizes in the proposition that we must have respect for all life and for the creation itself. I don't think anyone disagrees. However, this cannot be taken literally. Twipped with the creation, helping the creation, we do daily and have done for a very long time. Within creation there is a human disease and suffering that society has intervened against for all time and, of course, still has to do – and here research comes as an important tool. In this context, I would like to point out that we need to better organise our legislation in the medical field, for example in the field of genetic and biotechnology, in order to facilitate disease prevention. Genetically equal individuals are part of nature's order. Every 40th birth is a twin birth, and approx. One third of these twins are single-handed. There is no disagreement, either in Norway or in other countries in the world, that copying – clones – people should not be allowed, but in the case of animal cloning, other considerations have to be taken into account, including their consequences. In this respect, it must be the beneficial effect for humans of preventing and curing disease that must be essential for permitting and using cloning in different contexts. Globally, and also in Norway, there is still a major shortage of organs. There has been intensive research abroad over several years on the possibility of transplanting animal organs to man, and it has come quite a long way. The current phase is to make sure that undesirable animal diseases are not transmitted to humans by transplantation. As is well known, the party of progress is also positive to the transplantation of animal organs to man when this can be considered as safe enough in relation to the transmission of disease. As regards the cloning of animals for livestock, the Progress Party is somewhat uncertain and will follow the legislative proposal in this context. But the Progress Party will not fail to draw attention to the fact that cloning domestic animals with special characteristics for meat production can be a positive purpose in view of the third world where the food shortage is quite serious. Cloning animals to produce drugs I think is a little bit controversial. We've already done this, and we're going to do it on a larger scale in the future. Cloned animals for medicine production will have good health and quality of life and have an equal life as long as animals produced for slaughter, and perhaps much longer according to research. Such biogenerators can be important in the future medical production, and this is something that Norwegian legislation must also be positive, otherwise we will be acquitted in this field as well. In the bill, it's a total ban on the cloning of primates. The Progress Party does not agree with this. Therefore, there should be a derogation for the cloning of primates where this will be of crucial importance for medical research. Neurophysiological research, including memory research, is at a very high level in Norway, I have let myself tell. Norwegian researchers are at international level and far ahead. I am also familiar with what has recently been revealed in a report on primates in relation to HIV/AIDS, where it is documented that these animals do not get AIDS. This must be due to the fact that these primates produce a protein that harmlessens the HIV virus. This must be a very interesting field for professionals to look at. Therefore, in the Progress Party, we believe that research into and cloning of primates should be opened where this seems very topical and positive, but there should be strict criteria for such authorisation. In this context, we must not, in the final analysis, make any legal prohibitions that exclude research that is also in time. The prior product principle may be good in many ways, but we have already experienced that the precautionary principle in the Biotechnology Act has created problems for individuals that we are now going to have to solve in retrospect. I'll mention our suggestion in the setting. If it were to be put to the vote, we would vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e217	The representative John I. Alvheim has drawn up what he proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e220	SV supports the Government’s legislative proposals on the basis that general cloning of animals will be prohibited and that authorisation for research can only be granted after application and dispensation on the basis of strict professional criteria to be submitted to appropriate professional environments for assessment, such as the research ethics committees and the Biotechnology topic. It is a prerequisite for SV that animal health is a central point in the assessment of the feasibility of the tests and that the tests are not conducted in a way that conflicts with generally accepted ethical principles for the use of animals in procedures. SV would point out that different procedures, which individually do not cause suffering to animals, may nevertheless have ethical aspects related to the consequences of the research when the methods used are subsequently considered to be applied either for animal breeding or for the medical treatment of humans. SV assumes that methods which are initially considered ethically unacceptable if they are used in later animal breeding or in the medical treatment of humans are also not used in research, on the basis that the research in this case must be presumed not to have any benefit applied. SV sees that the impact of techniques that have been used should be studied in more detail. The Sauen Dolly was born on July 5, 1996 at the Roslin Institute in Edinburgh, United Kingdom, and the event was then a sensation. The sheep was created by DNA taken from the udder of a female sauce and introduced into an empty egg cell. The researchers then tried to clone 276 embryos. It was just one successful result, and it was Dolly. The cloning was a collaboration between the institute and the small privately owned company PPL Therapeutics Plc. The birth of the clone was kept secret for months while the sheep carefully examined the sheep. The publication in February 1997 sent shock waves throughout the world. In February 2003, the sheep was killed. The decision to kill the sheep was taken after a veterinary examination showed that it had a serious lung disease. Sheep normally have a life span of 11-12 years before the type of symptoms appear. Dolly had additionally developed symptoms of gout. What we found out in the closer study of the sheep was that the aging process went much faster than it did in other sheep, and in the individual from which Dolly was cloned. This came as a surprise to the researchers. You looked at the DNA structure and you figured out that it's not like an individual cloned becomes identical to the original. Later, a number of animals have been cloned. This applies to cows, chickens, pigs and cats — to mention someone. In February 2002, a study on cloned mice was published in Japan at the National Institute of Infectious Diseases in Tokyo. There it was found that the clones had a shorter life span than the normal mouse had. In February 2003, Australia’s first cloned sheep also died. It died unexpectedly after only two years and ten months. The cause of death was unknown, and the body was quickly cremated, because the sheep was simply about to rot. If you think about these kinds of techniques commercially, based on the fact that the technique is so new, you'll be at risk of being passed on, so that the individuals that arise after the prior cloning in the previous section, just age much faster. Those who think this should be applied research without using the precautionary principle, and also using human technology, obviously face exactly the same ethical challenges, whether it is the whole human being who is being cloned, or the organs created by that kind of technology and applied to humans. If you think in the future about xenotransplantation, then you use animal organs on humans – which in theory could be a current issue here in Norway – it is obvious to SV that the precautionary principle should apply. It would subsequently be totally unacceptable, and corruption and government would rightly be subjected to extremely strong criticism if you did this without knowing what you were going into. One of the reasons why SV can address the fact that fully controlled trials are carried out on the basis of a derogation application is precisely to be able to benefit from long-term experience before proceeding. We know that we will decide later on the question of xenotransplantation, but on behalf of SV I will signal that our attitude is to maintain the precautionary principle is important, on the basis of purely animal ethical principles, on which I have been involved. We see from the example of Dolly how animals also like overload. Ageing processes may accelerate. But it is obvious that those principles must apply even more to humans. That's why we're going to go into these kinds of things and base ourselves on not being too hasty, just to make sure that people are protected from diseases we might not know the consequences of today, whether it should be animal infection or it should be that the organs you use have an aging process that goes far faster than they would otherwise have done, if there were known organs from other people that were used.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e243	When cloning has been an extensive social theme and a comprehensive social debate, it is not least because the use of this technique raises some difficult ethical questions. The Christian People's Party believes that the basis for a positive assessment of new technology is humanism's emphasis on man's ability to reason, together with the Christian culture's emphasis on man's self-esteem and stewardship toward creation. Respect for all life must be our starting point in the work on these questions. Unlike animals, man can never be credited with a value on the basis that man is likely for certain purposes. Man has a value in himself. Therefore, it cannot be accepted that human life is a means to other people. Every human being has a value that is unique to other creatures. In many cases, animal cloning has caused fear of illegal transfer of technology, so that it can be used to clone humans. It was also this fear that was reflected in the debates in the Stortinget in 1997 when the Stortinget asked the Government to propose a modification of genetic engineering laws that would ban attempts to clone animals and high-ranking organisms. The Christian People's Party is concerned that a precautionary principle must be established for the use of bio- and genetic technologies and the extension of the field of work in today's regulations in this area. In animal cloning, such a principle implies that there is reasonable doubt as to whether the use of cloning techniques may have a possible transfer value for the development of human reproductive cloning methods, or may have negative consequences for the environment, human health and animal health or other conditions, the doubt must benefit individuals, nature and society. Reproducating human beings through the manipulation of human sex cells is an act that in itself must be accounted for in order to be contrary to prevailing ethics in society. Techniques such as cloning applied to animals may also be regarded as ethical doubts, as a form of manipulation with the creation, and must be rejected as ethically unacceptable in itself. However, if the use of such techniques on animals in the next round could lead to progress in e.g.: medical treatment in such a way that human lives can be feared would, on the part of the Christian People's Party, seem difficult to reject the use of such technology on animals on a purely mandatory basis. When it comes to animals, the Christian People's Party supports the government's view that it is more natural to see the matter from a consistent point of view. This may imply a very restrictive view of the use of cloning techniques, while at the same time accepting that there may be a case where the advantages are ethically greater than the disadvantages. There is a widespread moral vision in Norway today that it is not fundamentally crazy to use animals for important human purposes, but the important thing is how the animals are treated while they live, while good purposes cannot in the near future defend the use of animals of all kinds. The cloning of animals should, according to the Christian People's Party's view, be regulated in such a way that it fully supports the prohibition against human cloning, while at the same time making use of the potential of animal cloning for veterinary and human medicine. This is also the background to the possibility of exemption from the laws according to the given strict criteria, and upon application. The laws of genetic engineering must form the outer framework of modern biotechnology, the aim of which is to ensure that modern biotechnology is used for the common best and in line with the fundamental values on which our society builds. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government has managed in a good way to weigh up the different ethical dilemmas against each other, and supports the fact that there is a general ban on the cloning of animals, but that there is a possibility of dispensation according to the given criterion. The Christian People’s Party is pleased that this too is what the majority in the committee supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e266	The majority held two debates on cloning in the spring of 1997. During the first debate, on 7 March, Stortinget took the following decision: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the genetic engineering law which prohibit procedures for cloning animals and higher organisms.’ The background to Stortinget's wish for a total ban was primarily the fear that the cloning technique used to produce the sheep Dolly could be used to clone humans. During the second debate, held on 21 March 1997, several teams called for derogations for the cloning of animals on a case-by-case basis to be assessed in the context of the development of legislation in this area. It has been followed up by the Co-operation Government through the present bill. There are two central considerations that are balanced against each other in this proposition. On the one hand, the need for health care to develop treatments for disease and the need for research to acquire new knowledge of biological processes will be taken into account. On the other hand, consideration for animal protection and the environment and the desire to prevent methods from being used to clone humans. The central issue of the proposition is in this context the extent to which cloning techniques should be allowed to be used in Norway. In this context, the proposal also raises questions as to which purpose limitation would be appropriate for Norwegian society. This issue is of great importance to the Norwegian research communities. They still want access to cloning in order to acquire important knowledge and to develop methods and products for the benefit of human and veterinary medicine. I am pleased that there is great support for the professional premises that the Government has established for regulating the area. I respect those who are, in principle, opposed to a prohibition law as demonstrated by the alternative proposals in the vote. However, I am concerned that, in line with the government's leading attitude, a code is established that signals that this is an area where it is important for the authorities to gain more experience before giving a greater opening for the application of cloning techniques to animals. This is particularly important because techniques can be misused to clone people. I therefore emphasise that a prior check in the form of an application for a derogation is our best protection against the misuse of cloning technology. Given the lack of evidence of long-term consequences of animal cloning, there is also a need for caution as to what should be permitted at this stage in the application of techniques to animals. The purpose of imposing a general prohibition on the freedom of exemption is to ensure that the cloning of animals takes place in controlled forms and only within an ethically sound framework. I note that there is much agreement on these premises, and that the disagreement – especially in relation to the Labour Party’s proposal – is primarily a disagreement on the use of law. I also believe there is a broad consensus that it is important to facilitate the development of treatment at the heart of human and veterinary medicine by Norwegian professional communities. Norwegian research must therefore have a reasonable access to cloning animals. However, as I see it, it must also be an important societal task in the best possible way to secure us from the misuse of technology. In my opinion, the regulatory framework should be structured as I have proposed in Ot.prp. No 84 for 2002-2003. Let me comment so briefly on a few statements that have fallen into the debate. The representative Alvheim stated that the Stortinget now had to assess whether such legislation had been served. Yes, that is why the bill has come to Stortinget. The stork has asked for a ban. The majority has requested the submission of a proposal. There has been a long and circumstantial process here, but it is now the Stortinges assess whether such legislation has been served. And I note that the majority will say yes to this. In this way, it is also considered whether to want legislation based on the basic ethical and value-based assessments at the bottom. I don't know about any better expression of the people's will than the treatment of a bill by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e290	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e293	In the context of the treatment of the Biotechnology Act, a majority here in Stortinget said that Norway should be a leading country and specialise in research and development, among others. research on adult stem cells and avoid some of the ethical problems that were otherwise. It points out that it is possible to do the same with regard to the basis for research material and laboratory animals in relation to embryo fissures and animals obtained by the same method as naturally occurring in the wild with identical twins or multiplexes. I notice that the government parties and SV reject that this is a good way to do it, but it's a good idea in the proposition. Why is it that you are now taking a distance from using embryo fission as the best starting point for such research?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e302	Of course, I am in favour of the proposition I have made for Stortinget. The general question raised by the representative Ola D. Glötvold is the priority of research resources for research that does not conflict with the law. I believe that the Government, with its commitment to research in adult stem cells, has shown a willingness to think in the way that the representative Ola D. Glötvold addresses, and then it is the annual budgets that determine how to effectively follow up this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e307	The suspension has a total ban on the cloning of primates, while the Progress Party in the suspension allows for exemptions under very restrictive conditions. It's, as I said in my post, just discovered that when primates don't get AIDS, it seems because they produce a protein, so-called TRIM5 alpha, that makes the HIV virus harmless. It means, in my opinion, that primates will have a far greater impact on HIV/AIDS research than they have so far. HIV/AIDS we all know is the world's biggest problem with disease at the moment, and there's intense research going on all over the world. Does the Minister of Health think that in such a perspective it is right not to include in the law an exception for the cloning of primates, when science has come so far that one believes one has joy and benefit from it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e314	Let me first remind the representative Alvheim that this matter has been brought before the Storting on the basis of a request decision asking for a ban, and where there has been an explicit mention of higher organisms. The most high-ranking organism next to man is primates. Therefore, in its proposal, the Government has proposed the most restrictive regulation of this. In a number of areas, a promising development in research could be pointed out, but the choice in legislation is to set a limit, and the limit here is primarily based on the risk of abuse of this technique in relation to humans.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e319	Animal husbandry has shown in various ways that there may be a risk of developing disease, depending on breeding methods. What has been feared is that the diseases in animals may be transmitted to humans. Creutzfeldt-Jakob's disease is an example of that. We have seen the kind of strict measures that must be taken in agriculture when such a disease occurs. As regards research in these areas, the precautionary principle will mean that we have to exercise caution and be reasonably confident about the experience that has been gained before we take action, for example, on human beings. I want to ask the Council of State what kind of impression he's having in relation to the trends internationally from leading commodity considerations, regarding, for example, xenotransplantation and the possibility of using organs applied to humans. Is there a trend towards rapid progress? Or is it that international environments are cautious based on the dangers that may exist for human health?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e326	Let me first point out that I fully agree with the leading var-approach that SV has expressed both in the vote and in the debate here today. It also underpins the Government’s approach in the field of xenotransplants. I will come back to Stortinget with that question. But it is quite obvious that developments in xenotransplants, far from having gone as quickly as was predicted a few years ago, and that from the Norwegian side, we have been serving an approach to the question that has been slowing down and taking the lead was as a starting point. The processes in the international forums to arrive at an international framework for the regulation of xenotransplants have also taken longer than anticipated. As I said, I will come back to Stortinget with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e334	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 384]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e341	President! I had asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e346	Stretch was seen, so we move on to the next case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e360	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party Group and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is regarded as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e367	Female genital mutilation is a term used for intervention where major or minor parts of the genital organ are removed. Often the entire genital organ is removed. A girl named Fatuma Abdi Muhamed tells me that she has undergone two interventions: ‘The first time was a ‘mild’ form, but my father persuaded me to carry out the more extensive intervention, because no man would marry me if I was ‘open’. “No one buys a jar without a lid” he was told.” Fatuma has experienced a lot of pain, and is now asking for help in the fight against trouble. With such hopeless attitudes as this danger, it is essential to carry out information work and to create changes in attitudes in environments where gender mutilation is practised. As executive, we also have a clear responsibility to intervene and prevent such serious abuses from occurring where dialogue does not come about. In Norway, we have a tradition of fighting for individual rights. Gender mutilation is a dangerous and serious assault on women and a serious crime that represents a serious violation of international human rights. The human rights conventions are incorporated into Norwegian law, and Norway has recognised its obligation to prevent abuses against individuals, including the obligation to prevent girls and women from being transfused. An overall committee is behind and supports the Government’s legislative amendment proposal, which strengthens previous measures. Employees in kindergartens, child protection, health services, social services, schools, school-time arrangements and religious communities will then have an obligation to ward off gender mutilation. Employees will thus have a much more active role to play in the fight against gender mutilation, and the obligation of professional secrecy should no longer prevent any action to avert abuse. The important thing about the bill is not to run to the police in case of any suspicion. In particular, work should be done to detect potential abuses and to invite stakeholders to dialogue and to change their attitude in order to avoid any abuse. If dialogue is not beneficial, the amendment of the law will ensure that we can intervene in order to protect women and children from abuse. We can't or will no longer sit still and powerless and watch such inhuman abuses happen to our fellow sisters. The government has already implemented an action plan with 33 concrete measures to combat gender harm. The national OK project aims to combat such abuses, through guidance to employees in different parts of the auxiliaries and contributions to the enhancement of competence in this area. Over the period 2001-2004, the project will receive 15 million. kr. In order to further strengthen the work being done, a Joint Committee of the Government is asking the Government to review the treatment provision for women who have suffered sexual mutilation. The aim is to establish a comprehensive treatment provision that ensures follow-up both socially and surgically. The role of auxiliaries is to provide medical assistance and guidance in a difficult situation of life, not to be an indicator of the police. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the voluntary contact of women with the health care system for follow-up diagnostics and treatment. In such a case, the obligation of professional secrecy shall continue to apply if the woman does not so request. In order to gain the confidence of those in need of assistance and to avoid any difficulty in doing their job, the majority, all with the exception of the Advance Party, support the Government that the obligation of professional secrecy should continue to apply where gender discrimination has already been committed. It is important that health services, schools and other actors cooperate to achieve the objective of no girls being exposed to this form of mutilation in Norway. Norwegian Nursing Association shows in its letter that there are good local examples that such cooperation is beneficial, and that in some municipalities clear cooperation policies and procedures have been developed if a joint discovers that someone is at risk of sexual mutilation. We must now ensure that workers in the auxiliaries across the country are given this necessary competence so that as a society we can better protect the individual from such serious abuses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e396	Today, we are adopting a proposal for amendments to the Act on the Prohibition of Gender Injury in order to ensure better protection for girls who may be affected by gender mutilation, by proposing new provisions in the Act on the Obligation to Prevent Infringements of the Law. In Norway, we have had a law of our own prohibiting sexual injury since 1995. The basis for this has been that female genital mutilation is a discriminatory and health-threatening action against women and a serious violation of human rights. This must be made clear, so that no one living in Norway can be in the slightest doubt that sexual mutilation is totally unacceptable and directly punishable for those responsible. Nevertheless, information on the exposure of young girls has been found in various contexts. The change of law must be seen as an intensification of efforts to combat gender mutilation, and the Workers' Party supports the Government's proposals. The main intervention is to try to prevent sexual mutilation and that this is more important than maintaining the confidentiality of sensitive information, i.e.: a balance of interests between these two aspects. Nevertheless, there is reason to stress, as the Committee's position suggests, that the amendment of the law is only one of many instruments in the fight against sexual mutilation, as the rapporteur explained in detail. One must, of course, focus on information and attitudes in relation to the environment in question. For this reason, we must absolutely support the work of both non-governmental organisations and health workers, including. the health sisters, do. Contact between relevant groups and these needs to be further developed. The proposal provides that professionals and employees in kindergartens, child protection, health and social services, schools, leisure schemes and religious communities who do not, by notification or by any other means, seek to prevent a sexual mutilation may be penalised by fines or imprisonment for up to one year. This applies, inter alia, to: professional groups which are initially bound by the obligation of professional secrecy imposed by specific legislation. Thus, the amendment of the law provides for an exemption from the obligation of professional secrecy and the obligation to notify in order to avert sexual harassment. But I would like to stress that the issue of punishment for these occupational groups is definitely not the central issue. There may be reason to believe that this rarely or never applies, precisely because these professionals will do everything in their power to prevent anything wrong from happening to the young girls. In the consultation round, there was broad agreement on the need to capture young girls at risk of sexual mutilation. Different input into the process has shown that there may be different views on the instruments, but the consideration of the Committee and the balances that we all had to make showed that an overall committee was in favour of the proposed changes. For health professionals, the obligation of professional secrecy is provided for in the Health Personnel Act, and for a number of other groups, the legal framework is to be found in the Administrative Act. Nevertheless, the obligation of professional secrecy is not absolute. Two key aspects may waive the obligation of professional secrecy. This is the case where consent is given to disclose information and where there is a legal or regulatory home, e.g.: as it now stands, when the purpose is to prevent sexual mutilation. Gender impairment is a tradition in some cultures, but is a discriminatory offence, which is unacceptable both in Norway and in most other countries. There is also international agreement that the prohibition of sexual harassment is covered by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article 24. The laws of the other Nordic countries also have a clear ban on sexual mutilation, and criminal acts in the event of crime. The obligation of professional secrecy may also give way when mutilation has occurred and medical treatment is needed for the injury suffered. Knowledge that a girl is mutilated may also indicate that a younger sister of the girl can be sexually mutilated, which requires measures to ward off new genital mutilations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e422	It is an important matter we are now discussing, and it is an overall committee that supports the proposal for decisions by the government parties, although the Progress Party wants to go further in its proposal for a decision, which I will soon justify. It is important that we have strong instruments put in place to prevent sexual mutilation. We all know that this is linked to some special environments, and then it's important that an overall committee, and now, hopefully, a whole bunch of things, send a signal that you have a responsibility to ward off when you receive information that tells you that sexual harassment is going to happen. It is true, however, that today's proposal is not going to avert future sexual mutilation, although it is an important signal we are sending out. That is why, in order to address some of the problems we are seeing, the Progress Party has promoted its own proposal, which is that it should also report when it is found that sexual harassment has taken place, and that it should be punished in cases where it is not informed that sexual harassment has actually taken place. Because it might be a little pointless. Let's compare it to another possible criminal act. You can look at the proposal that's here, and draw a parallel to a situation where you see a person who's about to shoot someone. You have a duty to call the police if you see that they are about to shoot. But if he's already shot, you just have to go from there. There is no obligation to notify. I think we should go further in this matter if we really should put an end to the inhuman abuses that are being done against these young girls. I don't think we're getting rid of the problem of what we're doing here today. Although it's an important signal we're sending, I think practice is going to continue. The Progress Party has repeatedly put forward proposals for both health investigations and other instruments to expose this criminal act, for it is actually a criminal offence to impose this offence on young girls. I hope – and really hope – that something will happen in this case in the future too, because this is not enough. I hope that the majority in this will soon see that we also need to implement a criminal response in cases where it is found that abuse has taken place but fails to report. I believe that the obligation of professional secrecy must also give way in this area in the interests of the children who are to grow up and who must not be subjected to this very serious infringement. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e437	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has taken up the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e440	The SV's starting point is that sexual mutilation is an assault, and that targeted measures are needed to prevent the abuses from occurring. In the public space, I have recorded that someone is formulating itself as if there were degrees of sexual mutilation, almost in the direction that it would be an acceptance if the procedure were small. That's an approach SV doesn't want at all. In any case, this happens to women or children who are initially healthy and who suffer a lasting injury. It is clear that the more extensive the mutant, the destructive, the intervention is, the greater the long-term consequences, but it does not defend even a minor intervention. For SV, it is important to look at instruments that may have an effect. Having an obligation to notify if you are immediately confronted with the danger that such an intervention may occur, we think it is absolutely right. It can then be found in the situation that, precisely by intervening, the intervention does not take place there, but we believe that it has a significant preventive aspect, because the relatives who were going to implement the measures will, if it does happen afterwards, have a strong signal, and it will be easier to pursue it criminally. It is important to punish offenders when it has happened. At the same time, in relation to health professionals, it is important to find the means by which reporting obligations do not go so far as to prevent women who have been subjected to abuse from seeking health services from being notified. Here, the parallels are perfectly clear in relation to other types of assault. A woman who has been sexually assaulted shall be able to consult the health care system in a secure manner to ensure that the information provided is provided in a situation of professional secrecy. However, health professionals must, of course, act in a sensible way, seek to support the woman in that it makes sense to report the abuse that has actually taken place and to facilitate it. However, if in any respect and in any situation and without recourse to notification without being in dialogue with those affected, there would be an imminent risk that a number of women would never visit the health care system, or other women who have contracted the disease, who need treatment, but who are terrified of this leading, for example, to the notification of relatives. That is why we in SV think that there is a good balance in the law, as the government puts it here, precisely because when the danger is imminent, action should be taken there and there, while emphasis should be placed on the treatment aspect itself in retrospect. Then, of course, it is necessary to facilitate the support of the woman who has been subjected to an assault, to provide the necessary medical statements and to stimulate the report of the relationship. But it has to be done in a common understanding with the people involved. Then SV has suggested that the treatment services that exist should be reviewed, because we believe that there may be many places where you do not have the necessary professional competence to provide help. We have therefore taken the following initiatives: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the treatment provision for women who have been subjected to sexual mutilation, on the basis of the objective of a comprehensive treatment offer which ensures an overall follow-up, both socially and surgically, and which contributes to the voluntary contact of women themselves with the health services for follow-up diagnostics and treatment.’ A joint committee has joined it, and we are happy about that in SV. We think that, in sum, the way the committee comes together has an offensive approach. Then we have to do our experience along the way and see if there are also additional measures that should be put in place, on the basis of the common recognition that this is a completely unacceptable behaviour against women, which naturally has the right to protect their bodies, which everyone should have, and which has every reason to demand that society contribute to the protection necessary to ensure that there is no abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e456	The government has said that it will strengthen the fight against gender mutilation. Today's odelstningsproposition proposing a new provision in the Gender Disadvantages Act on the Obligation to avert a violation of the Law shows that the Government takes this seriously. It's a serious problem when almost 5,000 girls get sexually mutilated every day. Most of the girls who are exposed to this live in Africa. It is estimated that between 100 million and 130 million girls and women today live with the consequences of such an intervention. Some of these live in Norway. Like the rest of the parties on the Storting, the Christian People's Party cannot accept that women are violated in this way. Gender mutilation is a gross violation of the fundamental human rights of children and women. This practice helps suppress young girls. And who can imagine the pain and suffering of these abuses? Norway is obliged to a number of conventions dealing with important principles such as non-discrimination, the right to life, the right to bodily integrity and the greatest possible degree of physical and mental health. Against this background, work is being done internationally through cooperation with the authorities of the countries where sexual harassment is practised. Support is provided to non-governmental organisations dealing with the problem. Much is done to increase competence both in Norway and in the relevant cooperation countries. The Christian People's Party believes that this is particularly important. If we give the new generation of parents education, they'll better understand what lasting harm they're doing to their daughters. By increasing information and competence, women themselves will become aware that gender mutilation is an assault on their human dignity. It is important to prevent in our own country. The obligation to abolish, which we are dealing with today, is just one of 33 concrete measures that the Government has put forward in the fight against gender mutilation. The legislative proposal is a follow-up to the first action plan in a separate action plan. The Christian People's Party, like the rest of the Committee, would stress that sexual mutilation should be sought primarily through mind-building work. The attitude and information work of many non-governmental organisations, directed towards environments where sexual mutilation is practised, is essential to combat this practice. It is important that this dialogue continues in a respectful way. It may seem staggering if the Norwegian community only shows an interest in traditions that many people find painful and difficult to talk about, while ignoring the rest of their culture. Families may have other problems, such as: difficulties in getting access to housing or work. Combating genital mutilation is therefore not just about this cruel intervention. It is also about more far-reaching challenges, such as: good integration and preventing some groups from being marginalised. Gender mutilation is punishable by Norwegian law. Today’s proposal implies the obligation for professionals and employees in kindergartens, child protection, health care, social services, schools, school leisure schemes and religious communities to avert sexual harassment. The obligation shall also apply to leaders and religious leaders of religious communities. Employees or volunteers in non-governmental organisations are excluded from the scheme. The obligation to say from the outset occurs on the basis of information obtained through their work. And it applies regardless of the obligation of professional secrecy. Avoidance leads to criminal sanctions. The Christian People's Party supports this. The intention of reversing must outweigh the obligation of professional secrecy. When the Christian People's Party supports that the obligation of professional secrecy should not be set aside after a person becomes aware that such an infringement has occurred, it is for the sake of the woman. It may be essential that in such a situation, the woman dares to contact the health service and obtain the necessary health care. Today's law helps to give better rights to many women. It's moving slowly forward, but I think the fight against sexual mutilation will succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e488	Let me start by saying that it might be more interesting to get the floor in the previous case, which I asked for then, because there were more open and unanswered questions and perhaps even greater disagreement in the committee, but that is not the responsibility of this president. The main reason for pointing out the broad and broad consensus in the Committee on this matter is as follows: Inner. O. No 55 for 2003-2004. We support the present legislative proposal, which implies that certain occupational groups are given a criminal sanctioned obligation to avert sexual mutilation. The severance obligation shall apply to employees of kindergartens, child protection, health and social services, schools, school leisure arrangements and religious communities. The obligation to avert such acts shall apply without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy. Such an abstinence gives a clear signal that sexual mutilation is very serious and that society has a special responsibility to protect women and children from such interventions. At the same time, there is reason to point out that professional secrecy is essential to ensure a trust relationship between employees of general government and individuals. In addition, the public exercise of powers over individuals must be managed with caution and respect for the private sphere. It is therefore an important principle that sensitive information on individuals should not be dispensed unnecessarily between, for example: different administrative bodies. It is also important to stress that this legislative change is one of many instruments in the fight against gender mutilation. Other key instruments include information and awareness-raising, empowerment and overall overall care and assistance for the groups exposed here. An overall committee indicates that several non-governmental organisations are engaged in awareness-raising and information work in settings where sexual harassment is practised. This work is essential for combating gender mutilation, and there must be a real change of attitude in these environments that can lead to a different practice. The Committee would stress that gender mutilation should be sought primarily through such awareness-raising activities. So an overall committee supports the government's legislative proposals, with some comments. At the same time, a joint committee highlights the need for a close follow-up of women who are already sexually mutilated. We believe that there is a need for a review of the overall competence related to adequate follow-up of women who have already been sexually mutilated, both in psychosocial interventions and in the competence related to reconstructive surgery and treatment. The Committee also considers that there is a need for a review of the field in order to ensure the best possible and most comprehensive follow-up of women who have been sexually mutilated, where follow-up takes place in a way that enables women to seek contact with the health care and auxiliaries and to improve their situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e503	The legal proposition and setting of Odelstinget today is a follow-up to the Government's action plan against gender mutilation. In order to ensure better protection for girls who may be affected by this, a new provision is proposed in the Gender Disadvantages Act on the Obligation to Avoid Breaking the Law. Gender impairment can have far-reaching consequences for the health of children and women, both physically and mentally. Health consequences may vary greatly, including: because there are different types of interventions covered by the concept. For all of them, the intervention removes a larger or smaller part of the female genital organ. As Minister of Health, I am very concerned that girls should not be subjected to such interventions. The legal anti-discrimination obligation in the bill is limited to childcare, child protection, health and social services, schools, school leisure schemes and religious communities, i.e. persons who, through their profession, regularly come into contact with girls. These are persons who, by virtue of their profession, should have the best conditions for putting in place appropriate measures against sexual harassment. It appears reasonable that these professional groups have a particular responsibility to protect girls from such abuses. However, I would like to stress that, in order to prevent sexual mutilation, it is necessary for different occupational groups, across their sectors, to communicate and share their knowledge. It is therefore essential that the obligation to avert sexual mutilation applies without prejudice to professional secrecy. I am pleased that the Social Committee unanimously shares the Government's view on this issue. The obligation to cancel the contract does not mean to report the matter to the police. Where there is no immediate risk of sexual mutilation, the first application shall be for the elimination of sexual mutilation by means of information, knowledge and change of attitude. However, there should be no doubt that a girl has the right to avoid being mutilated or circumcised. If the professional concerned becomes aware that, despite measures, a sexual mutilation will nevertheless occur, or this appears to be the most likely, the case shall be notified to the child protection or police, which have the means to institute immediate action. In order to combat sexual harassment, it is essential for individual employees to receive the necessary training and guidance on what they should do in this work, and I would like to stress the responsibilities of employers and central authorities in relation to competences. In particular, it is important that each workplace has good procedures for dealing with such matters. There has been a number of debate on the obligation to abolish should be penalised. As I see it, the possibility of punishment gives a clear signal to the professionals concerned that they cannot be passive in their knowledge of impending sex mutilation. A non-prosecution obligation would be a weaker provision and would signal that the abolition obligation is not so important. I have asked the Social and Health Directorate to develop guidelines on how the professionals and employees concerned can act in order to fulfil their obligation to abolish. The guidelines shall be drawn up in cooperation with the parties concerned. I have noticed that the Committee asks the Government to review the treatment provision for women who have suffered sexual mutilation, based on the objective of a comprehensive treatment provision. I'll follow that up in a proper way. I have also noticed that the members of the Social Committee from the Progress Party propose that the professional groups covered by the obligation to rescind should also be obliged to report/announce a gender disadvantage that has already taken place. I can agree for a while on the way that a reporting obligation to the police after a sexual mutilation can deter anyone from committing such crimes. However, as I see it, if a person imposes a reporting obligation where the purpose is to punish, there will be a risk of creating health problems. Being able to exempt from professional secrecy only for reasons of criminality is alien to healthcare. The imposition of a notification obligation only for reasons of criminality will not provide the necessary confidence. We can risk girls who have been sexually mutilated not looking for health care or teachers for help, advice and guidance. On that basis, I believe that there are good reasons not to introduce such a provision. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that in its position the majority of the Social Committee has joined the Government's proposal for amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e530	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 387]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e538	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e545	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Asmund Kristoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 2 by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 3, from Ola D. Incense on behalf of the Centre Party
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e703	The President will first vote on the motions for resolutions. One, two, three. We start with proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the law on the production and use of genetically modified organisms, a new cap. 3a is replaced by the following: Cape. 3a Cloning§ 11a Prohibition of animal cloningIt is prohibited to clone vertebrates and crustaceans.§ 11b Prohibition of the importation of cloned animals It is prohibited to import cloned vertebrates and crustaceans.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e729	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the law on the production and use of genetically modified organisms, a new cap. 3a is replaced by the following: Cape. 3a Cloning§ 11a Authorisation for the cloning of animalsCleaning of vertebrates and crustaceans shall only be granted after authorisation has been obtained from the department or department designated. Authorisation may be granted only for basic biological and medical research or for medical activities aimed at achieving new processes, diagnostic procedures and disease prevention measures for humans and animals. Authorisation for the cloning of primates shall only be granted exceptionally and then only for particularly important medical research.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e750	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the law on the production and use of genetically modified organisms, a new cap. 3a is replaced by the following: Cape. 3a Cloning§ 11a Animal cloningCleaning of vertebrates and crustaceans may only be authorised upon application to the department or department designated. In order to obtain authorisation for cloning in basic biological and medical research or activities, it is a condition that the aim is to achieve new processes and preventive measures for humans and animals, and that there is a balance between animal ethical considerations and expected benefits. The acceptance of the application shall be based on a balance between the usefulness and the stresses to which the animal is subjected, including the integrity, instinct and well-being of the animal. The person seeking to produce cloned animals shall investigate the alternative methods that exist and explain them in the application.Cloneing of primates is not permitted.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e775	Once the proposals have been dropped, the Workers' Party and the Progress Party have notified that they support § 11(b) and 11(c) of the Committee's position subsidiaryly, while the Centre Party supports § 11(a). Therefore, the Committee's position on § 11a is first contested. The Labour Party and the Advance Party must therefore oppose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e790	It looks like this needs a slight explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e793	Here it is that once our proposal has fallen, we vote subsidiaryly for the whole law as it exists from the majority, with the same content as we have agreed on. It's a legal matter for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e798	Paragraph 11(a) is then re-voted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e808	It is then voted on the Committee's position on sections 11(b) and 11(c). Here the Center Party has announced that they want to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e837	Here, too, the Center Party has announced that they want to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e879	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e889	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e896	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e930	The proposal of the Progress Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 15 December 1995 74 on the prohibition of genital mutilation, Section 3 is replaced by the following: Professionals and employees in kindergartens, child protection, health and social services, schools, school leisure schemes and religious communities, who discover that sexual mutilation has taken place, shall report gender mutilation to the police without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy. Similarly, leaders and religious leaders in religious communities. The person who deliberately infringes the provision of the first paragraph is punished by fines or imprisonment up to one year.Current Section 2 becomes new Section 4.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e967	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e977	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-23-lower.ana.ud1917e987	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
