ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e26	The representative of Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will present a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e29	On behalf of Per Sandberg's representative and myself, I would like to make proposals to amend the Social Services Act and the Child Protection Services Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e34	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will present a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e37	On behalf of the representative, Mr Hedstrøm and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the Act of 2 June 1989 No. 27 on the placing on the market of alcoholic beverages, etc., under the Alcohol Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e42	The legislative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e56	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - That's to look at as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e63	This case concerns a number of minor changes to the Road Traffic Act. I'll go through them quickly. It's a unanimous committee that provides the setting. The first point I want to address is the introduction of driving licences for two-wheel mopeds. The Committee agrees with the Government’s proposal to move from licence to driving licence and points out that moped is one of the most vulnerable categories of vehicles in the case of road accidents, with the aim of enhancing driving test competence. The Committee has also received letters from the Minister for Transport, stressing that the training of drivers at present in secondary school will continue. With regard to the fee for the issue of tachograph cards, the Committee agrees that such a fee should be printable. The Committee refers to the wording of page 9 of the Proposition that "the Ministry is empowered to lay down rules on fees" so that only the actual "costs shall be chargeable to those required to use such cards". In the case of a new regulatory helmet for random roadside inspections of vehicles, the Committee supports the provision of such a basis. The Committee refers to the Ministry’s clarification that ‘the legislative act will not restrict the control activities carried out along the road today’, rather an opportunity to improve it. With regard to the introduction of new Section 19(a) on the approval of vehicle workshops, the Committee also supports it and points out in particular that there is a need to simplify the legislation in order to obtain approval as a car workshop. As far as personal protective equipment is concerned, the Committee has had somewhat longer discussions, but we have come to the conclusion that we agree with what the Government proposes. We assume that the regulation is designed in close dialogue with the actors, in order to find good, practical solutions that are manageable for drivers, which enable the collective offer to be made available to users, and which can also be combined with a good level of safety. In this case, it is important for the Committee to clarify that the driver’s primary responsibility is to drive the vehicle. The Committee further points out that the regulation and the basis for penalties for infringements must be designed in such a way as to take into account the limited ability of the driver to continuously monitor passengers. This is important for the possibility of having good safety on the bus. At the same time, we will also stress that it is quite safe to drive a bus today, and that we do not impose restrictions that lead people to choose transport modes that are far less safe than it is to travel by bus today. The Committee also considers that children under the age of four must be adequately secured in line with other passengers travelling by bus. In addition, the Committee has no comments, and I would recommend this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e86	Ot. pp. No 53 for 2003-2004 is about changes in the Road Traffic Act. Several measures are being amended and the aim of these changes is to improve road safety. We know that improving the road network leads to better safety. The same applies to different prevention and information measures. The goal is to secure ourselves and our fellow passengers on our roads, no matter what means of origin is used. Here I would like to highlight some of the measures. For two-wheel mopeds, there have been enough mopeds for now, but from 1 January 2005 driving licences will be required. This is important for increased driving competence and a comprehensive driver training system. This category of driving licences will also be proposed in the EU. In all major vehicles for the carriage of persons and goods, recording equipment shall be installed to demonstrate that the driver complies with the driving and rest periods. These tachographs are now to become digital. In this case, it is proposed that the Ministry should be allowed to set fees for issuing tachograph cards, so that users have to cover the cost of issuing such cards. We expect this fee to cover only the actual costs. Another mandatory requirement is the use of personal protective equipment in vehicles above 3,5 tonnes. Provision is also made for the use of other safety equipment in motor vehicles, such as wheelchair fastenings and baby carriages. With regard to the directive on the use of personal protective equipment in larger vehicles, it is important that the regulation becomes sufficiently clear to be easily enforced. The driver must be absolutely sure of his responsibilities. To the end, I will mention the introduction of a new section 19(a) on the approval of car workshops. The right supports this amendment, which is the incorporation of the law on the approval of vehicle workshops into the Road Traffic Act. This is part of a larger process that will simplify the legislation. Simplification, less bureaucracy, is something we in the Right appreciate very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e105	The game has been merged into the changes proposed in Ot. pp. No 53 for 2003-2004 on changes in road traffic laws. So I don't want to go into all the different changes, but I want to comment on some of them. First, the Centre Party is in favour of introducing a consistent distinction between the privileges, i.e.: the right of a person to drive a motor vehicle when the requirements of the legislative, regulatory or administrative provisions have been met and the right to drive, which is the proof that he has that right. The proposal for a transition to a modular driving training course for all driving licence classes also includes a transition from the current driving licence for moped to a owned moped driving licence. Moped is often the first motor vehicle for many young people. For this reason, it is important that the training for those who are going on the road as drivers for the first time is good enough. In many youth schools, we have arranged for young people to take moped drivers’ certificates in school days. Many young people benefit from this. I think it should be possible to continue with this practice. I am pleased that the Ministry, in reply to questions from the Committee, says that it is a wish that the school should be able to take full training. Until the student can provide a road basic course, which is the first part of the training, this first part must be completed by an approved driving ball. Traffic basic courses are basic traffic training and understanding. When this is also introduced for moped driver cards, it will be part of improving driver training. I believe, therefore, that it can be accepted that until the student can offer training in a road basic course, this must be done by an approved running ball. Finally, I want to mention what others have also been discussing, that the driver and also the bus driver have a responsibility for passengers under 15 years of age using a safety belt. The driver may be charged a fee if passengers under the age of 15 are not insured. A specific assessment shall be made as to whether the driver’s attention has been good enough before a fee is paid. At the same time, however, it is important that personal protective equipment installed in vehicles, usually safety belts, be used to ensure passenger safety. It may also be an untimely task for a bus driver to be responsible for the fact that everyone under the age of 15 really wears a seat belt. The bus driver's primary task must be to be driver. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee suggested that the regulation at this point should be designed in close dialogue with the actors in order to find practical solutions that are manageable for the drivers. The Committee also states that the regulation and the basis for the penalties must be designed to ensure that the driver has limited access to the continuous follow-up of passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e120	The rapporteur has now explained most of this law, and there is a broad consensus on it. With regard to the introduction of driving licences for two-wheel mopeds, this will result in equality with other motor vehicles. Moped belongs to one of the most vulnerable categories of vehicles in the case of road accidents, which suggests that a strengthening of driving competence is necessary. It is also important that moped drivers’ training should continue to be provided as an elective subject in school. This is important in order to be able to offer schooling exciting and varied education, which leads to something that they themselves think is very useful. Finally, I would like to mention this with the safety level in the bus. We're busy keeping a high level of safety in the buses. At the same time, it is important that the collective service appears to be open, without unnecessary restrictions for people with disabilities or children. We assume that the regulations are designed in close dialogue with the actors to find good, practical solutions that are manageable to the drivers. At the same time, we would like to make it clear that the driver's primary responsibility is to drive the vehicle. It must also be pointed out that the rules and the basis for penalties for infringements must be designed in such a way as to take into account the limited ability of the driver to continuously monitor passengers. We also believe, like the other parties, that children under the age of four must be able to be adequately secured in the same way as other passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e131	I am pleased that the Transport Committee supports the Government's proposal for changes to the Road Traffic Act. The proposal essentially involves technical adjustment and clarification of certain provisions of the law, but also some new legal provisions. Legislative changes are proposed to facilitate the implementation of driving licence requirements for two-wheel mopeds. The legislative amendments provide a formal basis for harmonising the rules on the acquisition and demonstration of driving competence for two-wheel mopeds with equivalent rules for other two-wheel vehicles. The final content of the training will be introduced by regulation. Proposals for new regulations and curricula are now being consulted. I intend to see the regulations enter into force on 1 January 2005. Once the changes have been completed, the current moped licence will be replaced by a separate moped driving licence. The introduction of driving licences for two-wheel mopeds is part of the work of a more complete driver training system for all drivers. Moped is a vulnerable vehicle category. This implies a special need to strengthen driving competence here. It is also proposed to authorise the Ministry to provide for fees for the issue of tachograph cards for the registration of driving and rest periods in road transport. The EU provisions on driving and rest periods and the use of recording equipment in road transport have been in force as Norwegian law since 1994. Today's analogue tachograph will be replaced by a digital system. The aim of the introduction of digital tachographs is to prevent the most common forms of misuse of the current system and to simplify and reduce the time-consuming control of driving and rest periods of the individual driver. Other important considerations are increased competition between transport undertakings and improved road safety. The proposal implies that the actual costs associated with the production and issue of the cards may be borne by those required to use tachograph cards. A new regulatory helmet is proposed for the random roadside inspection of vehicles. The requirement is per person. Today, as a temporary solution, provided for in Section 43 of the Road Traffic Act, which allows for the application and enforcement of the provisions of the Act. With the proposal that has now been promoted, the Ministry wishes to attach the regulatory home to the provisions of the law governing control. I would like to make it clear that this amendment to the law will not restrict the control activities carried out along the road today. With regard to the introduction of new Section 19(a) on the approval of vehicle workshops, the proposal involves the introduction of a new Section 19(a) to replace the law on the approval of vehicle workshops and the repeal of the latter. The law on the approval of vehicle workshops in force is a Powers Act consisting of only four paragraphs. In order to simplify legislation, it is desirable to incorporate this law into the Road Traffic Act. The detailed conditions for obtaining approval as a workshop are laid down by law, regulation or administrative action. The proposal for a new regulation has been being consulted and clearly simplifies the existing regulation. The legislative proposal also specifies and extends Section 23a on the use of personal protective equipment while driving. The proposition's proposal is essentially a clarification of the applicable law. It is clarified in the text of the proposal that the provision provides grounds for imposing an obligation to use personal protective equipment irrespective of the total weight of the vehicle, and that driver responsibility may also apply irrespective of the weight of the vehicle. Moreover, the proposal also involves a change in reality by empowering the Ministry to lay down rules requiring the use of equipment other than personal protective equipment, i.e.: other than helmet and safety belt. This may include, inter alia: be wheelchair restraint systems, etc. and child-resistance equipment. Any new material requirements for the use of such other restraint systems will be introduced by regulation. The need for new orders and the scope of obligations related to them will then be highlighted in own hearings. The Ministry will seek to find good and practical solutions for the use of protective equipment on buses in the context of the establishment of regulations. This work will also take into account the driver’s responsibility for child-resistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e167	No more people have asked for the floor. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e175	The odelsting shall then vote in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e418	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e428	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-28-lower.ana.ud2255e439	Preloaded report is not present.
