ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e131	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e142	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there has been a typographical error in the setting on page 21, in the setting of the committee. The text of the proposal for Decision III shall be identical to that adopted by the majority of the Committee on page 13 of its opinion. The proposal for Decision III is replaced by the following: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the context of the 2005 State budget, to extend the study loan write-down scheme in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, so that the maximum amount of depreciation is increased from SEK 16 500 per year. years to NOK 25,000 per year. years.’» The background to the Storing Communication on the Nord-Troms and Finnmark Action Zone, on rich diversity in the north, to be addressed today, is among others. a decision on a request from the Storting to provide a review of the experience with the action zone and to assess at the same time conversions and possible extensions. The geographical location of the Barents Sea and the border with Russia and the EU countries Finland and Sweden make Finnmark and Nord-Troms unique in Norway and Europe. The Barents region is also a place of meeting and residence for many cultures: Norwegian, Sami, female, Finnish and the last few years also Russian, and immigrants from other parts of the world. The Government calls on the Communication to continue and strengthen several of the specific measures in the Action Zone. There is a broad consensus in the Committee on such a policy. I assume that the parties in the debate are presenting their own positions which differ from that of the majority. Historically, the Finnish and Nord-Troms industries have been based on the exploitation of rich natural resources and exports of products to international markets. The basic industries of fisheries, agriculture and reindeer farming remain an important basis for current patterns of housing. A unanimous committee is committed to preserving its distinctive character and developing the rich diversity of the zone. The region is sensitive to changes in natural resources, the environment, markets and foreign policy events. Over the period 1990–2002, the population of the action zone fell by about 2 pst. In the same period, the population increased by 6.4 pst. on a national basis. It's worth noting that the decline in population is the largest in the coastal regions. Employment trends have been negative over the same period, while they have increased in Norway as a whole. In particular, private employment has fallen sharply and migration capacity is weak. Today unemployment is over 2 pst. higher in the zone than in the other country and highest in the coastal zone. Finnmark and Nord-Troms face permanent disadvantages related to location and long distances, low population concentration and small business environments. There is therefore no disagreement on the need for exceptional efforts in the area. Both short-term and long-term measures need to be aligned with overall objectives of sustainable development and viable local communities. Have the instruments in the action zone worked as intended? Population, employment and unemployment trends are three key indicators to assess this. If I refer one-sidedly to what I said earlier, the answer may be no. But both the Committee, the Government and all those who have been heard in connection with this communication believe that the answer is yes. The extra effort, which in 2003 amounted to well over DKK 2 billion, was a strong stimulus for both industry and the population of this part of the country. Although we can never be sure what had happened if the measures had not been implemented, we believe that the professional assessments underlying them show that both personal and business-oriented measures have had a positive impact on the region. The advantage of the action zone in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, reindeer management, energy and tourism sectors must be exploited for increased local processing and market product development. The region has large areas that can be used for testing new species in aquaculture and testing alternative forms of energy. Oil and gas activities provide great opportunities for industrial development. The region also has a large nature and diverse culture, which is a resource for the development of tourism. The challenges lie among others: in connecting the real competence of industries with formal competence to develop new products. I would like to comment on some of the instruments below. The general framework conditions have been strengthened in recent years, through lower interest rates and a weaker exchange rate. This has also benefited the enterprises in the action zone. But business is completely dependent on fresh, risk capital that can contribute to conversion, growth and development. An overall committee therefore asks the Government to assess the framework for innovation in the zone. In this context, it is essential to point to the central role of the county council as a regional development actor. Developing good partnerships between business, local and regional authorities is a prerequisite for achieving the objectives of increased growth and value creation. The fact that the Government has obtained the agreement of the other EFTA countries to exempt the action zone from the employer’s fee is a major victory in maintaining the main features of the housing pattern. The zero rate of the employer’s contribution is directly targeted at employment and is easy and cost-effective to manage. Reduction in personal tax affects all workers in the zone. It increases purchasing power, compensates for economic disadvantages and is accurate in relation to relocation decisions. The entire Committee ceases to continue this system. There is a broad consensus both at local and central level, in the professional and political contexts that the cancellation of student loans is striking in terms of recruiting and maintaining key target groups in the action area. The majority of the Committee considers this to be so important for the development of the action zone that it is desirable to raise the amount of remission from DKK 16 500 to DKK 25 000 from 2005 onwards. Parties ask the Government to assess exactly the same in the 2005 budget. It's a big message and not a budget we're dealing with right now. The vast majority therefore agree that this action needs to be strengthened. The supplement to the amount of child benefit is granted to children under 18 years of age and currently amounts to less than DKK 4000 per person. Children per day years. The supplement contributes to stabilising the settlement but has not been price adjusted for many years. Therefore, the Government Parties consider that the Appendix should be assessed in an adjusted manner to the current value of the krona. The trends are very worrying in the fishing industry. In various contexts, the Minister for Fisheries has underlined the need to adopt an industrial approach, where he has introduced a number of measures to improve the regularity and stability of raw materials supply to farms. If we are to succeed, we need to focus more on the proximity of resources and the ability to supply large, affordable markets with fresh products. High production costs make it difficult for us to compete on price. Here low-cost countries like China and Poland take the inside swing on us. Quality based on fresh products must become our brand. The transport aid scheme is negative for most enterprises in the action zone. For natural reasons, it goes without saying that many have long and expensive transport to the market. This may distort competition in the disfavor of these enterprises compared to those in the counties receiving transport aid from 2004. There are no obstacles in today’s legislation to the implementation of the transport aid scheme in the action zone, but this is up to the county council to decide. In view of the views expressed by Troms and Finnmark County Councils in relation to the conditions of competition in industry, the Christian People's Party assumes that the county authorities assess such arrangements for industry. The country has transferred funds, including for this purpose, through the ordinary income system and to the role of regional development operator. It is up to the county councils to give priority. It is necessary for the large community to facilitate the maintenance of the establishment and development of the action zone from an overall perspective, in which both the management of the natural resources of the region and the consideration of the community are ensured. The income system of the municipal sector is of great importance in this way. The Government is therefore asked to take such an overall perspective into account in the follow-up to the work of the Committee on Income. Finally, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to stress that the importance of the special effort in the action area depends on how the population, business and local authorities use the framework conditions to promote development in the area. In order to stimulate the movement of both people and businesses, it is essential that the Ministry contributes to making the instruments known also outside the action area. I address the proposal promoted by the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e200	The representative Ivar Østberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e203	Finnmark and Nord-Troms are an area of rich potential: proximity to some of the world's most productive fishing grounds, nature and culture that provide the basis for unique travel experiences, proximity to high-level petroleum regions and proximity to new markets in North-West Russia. At the same time, major challenges have been faced: long distances, a hard climate, a one-sided nutrient base and small and vulnerable communities. But – also close and warm societies. The Workers' Party has always been a guarantor of an active policy in the north. It was the Workers' Party that separated the region in a separate instrument area at a lower rate of the employer's fee. It was the Workers' Party that proposed the removal of the employer's fee. Specific investment aid was granted to the working party. The working party was given additional child-restraint and student loan write-downs. Later, the Syse government has brought together these measures and fiscal policies into a single concept: the Action Zone. The active substances have worked, but the challenges are at least the same. However, the government has not proposed strengthening the instruments. That is what the Workers' Party believes is too passive. We got the student loan system in place, and we want to strengthen it. That's why we're proposing to increase the write-down from NOK 16 500 per person. year to NOK 25 000 per year. years. It'll get more Finnmark kids to come home. Erna Solberg and Right have said no. Therefore, unfortunately, there will not be a majority for an improvement. However, Finnmark and Nord-Troms are also dependent on other interventions. The Labour Party will strengthen school provision and elderly services. When the Government tightens up the local economy, this region is hit hardest. The main measure to ensure good welfare also in Finnmark and Nord-Troms is that municipalities and county municipalities have a financial basis to provide the population with a good and comprehensive service provision. But, above all, it is necessary to strengthen activity. The Labour Party will strengthen efforts in the field of rural policy. When the government cuts in the district effort, this region is hit hardest. Following the accession of the Bondevik II Government, appropriations for regional policy measures have been substantially reduced. The regional development appropriations, which are now made available by Finnmark County Municipality, are reduced from 179 million. SEK in 2001 to SEK 113 million. DKK in 2004. This has significantly weakened the potential for active regional economic development in the region. Distance has been the great disadvantage of this region. Now we can reduce the importance of distance – use new technology to reach others in a moment, but then broadband is needed. Finnmark County Municipality has developed a broadband deployment plan. Finnland is the only state in the country without connection to nationwide broadband networks. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that the further expansion of broadband must start here. We must offensively seize the opportunities for trade with North-West Russia, but then the Barents Secretariat/Barents Cooperation cannot be confined to any commitment mandates on the state budget. Then we must have a strategy, and we must have a will. We must seize the possibilities for the development of petroleum activity. Therefore, the Workers' Party will open up oil exploration and all-year petroleum activity in the northernmost sea areas. We need to seize the possibilities for developing the tourism industry, including through the development of winter tourism. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes to facilitate the development of a travel life product using snowmobiles. Unfortunately, the government parties say no again, although this can actually lead to less stress on nature. It is not exactly initiative and action that characterises the policies of the Right and Christian People's Party towards the Action Zone. In one area, this paralysis of action, or perhaps the worst unwillingness to act, is particularly serious. Finnmark and Nord-Troms have a unique advantage by being close to some of the world's most productive fishing grounds. The proximity of fishing grounds has also been the main basis for housing and employment in these areas. 11 pst. of the persons employed in the action zone working in the fisheries and aquaculture industry in 2001, against 1 pst. in the rest of the country. At the same time, Finnmark's share of landings from Norwegian vessels is reduced from 18 pst. from the total value for the period 1977 to 1989 to 10 pst. during the period 1990-2003. The decline in the population is clearly the strongest in coastal areas. The population in Coastal Finland was reduced by nearly 18 pst. during the period 1980-1989, and with a further close to 13 pst. during the period 1990-2002. If, as a nation, we mean something with our rural policy objectives, it is necessary to take action to counteract this negative development in coastal communities. We need to facilitate the creation of new businesses, including: based on the fresh and good quality fish raw material available in the area. The situation in many coastal communities in the action zone is serious. The fish file industry, which has traditionally been dominant in Finnmark, is exposed to significantly stronger global competition, including: by sending frozen fish to China for processing, then returning to the Norwegian market. The population of some coastal municipalities has fallen sharply in recent years. In Hasvik municipality, for example, the population was reduced by about 7 pst. in 2002 and around 6 pst. in 2003. The Labour Party believes that the crisis in coastal communities is a national responsibility. The challenges in the coastal communities of Finnmark cannot be solved by the market, as the Government puts it. The majority of the Storting Municipal Committee therefore consider that it is highly critical that the Government has not taken the initiative to contribute to new activity in the coastal communities affected by bankruptcy and high unemployment. Last summer, the County of Finnmark considered that the situation was so serious that he, as the State representative in the county, needed to make a separate statement to the Prime Minister about the situation. In a letter of 30 June 2003 to the Prime Minister, the State writes, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Totally, the last year has entered into bankruptcy or ceased operation at more than 40 pst. by the fishing industry and 6 farms in the county, and a thousand jobs have been lost. And there's reason to fear that evolution doesn't stop with this." He goes on to write: ‘Standing against such a development is reason to fear that the bottom falls out of many communities and that the pattern of settlement along the Finnmark coast may be radically changing.’ And on the other hand, ‘If it is an objective to stop the uncontrolled development we are experiencing in the state today, it is therefore necessary that the central authorities take action. We are so serious about the situation that we consider it appropriate to explain specifically the developments and raise questions about the implementation of a thorough analysis of the situation with a view to drawing up a State Action Plan covering all sectors addressing these issues.’ These are strong words in a special report by a county councilman. Well, it's so strong that the government has met this dramatic report with a shoulder pull. However, the majority of the Committee takes a very serious view of the developments described in its presentation and considers that there is a need for State action, as the county asks questions. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party therefore propose that the Government should implement a State action plan in order to start business in the fishing communities in the action zone of Finnmark and Nord-Troms, affected by bankruptcy and high unemployment. I can't do anything but make an intrusive appeal to my co-representatives to take seriously what's going on in Finnmark. Do not allow political performance to prevent action being taken. Therefore, there is a need for an action plan, as proposed by the county council, not just for the market to be organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e259	Unfortunately, it is not too often that you can read good news in the newspapers. On Tuesday 27 April of this year, on the other hand, there was a cover in Finnmark Dagblad under the heading «We are not moving». Here is a consensual couple with three children and tells them that it is not appropriate for them to move out of Finnmark. One of the reasons was the action zone for Nord-Troms and Finnmark, which means that the family saves over 70 000 kroner a year on living and working in Finnmark. This example shows that the personalised actions of the action zone work as intended. The industrial structure in Norway and the rest of the world has changed considerably over the past 30 years. This also has Finnmark and Nord-Trom's mark to a large extent. Higher education levels and higher cost levels have led to a significant reduction in much of traditional industrial production throughout Norway and, in many cases, to a move abroad. This affects many industrial communities in Finnmark very hard, while service municipalities have experienced growth. Development and research show, therefore, that industrial conversion and good framework conditions, as well as education, are key factors in contributing to the growth of traditional industrial communities. When the action zone was introduced in 1990, it was precisely in view of improving the framework conditions for value creation, for employment and for individuals in Finland and North Troms. Several reports show that the action area has been successful for Finnmark, and an evaluation of NIBR in 1997 showed that the action area has contributed directly and indirectly to more than 3000 new jobs in the zone. Population statistics show that Nord-Troms and Finnmark had a population growth in the years following the introduction of the Action Zone scheme – and to quote the Moravian Research Report ‘Better climate for the Action Zone’: ‘During this period, relative employment trends were more positive in the zone than in the two comparative areas. This may indicate that the instruments put in place for the establishment of the Action Zone in 1990 have worked.’ When the action zone was proposed, this was not entirely without protests. Now, a year series of state packages would be replaced by good long-term framework conditions, which, together with other personalised measures, would improve the general framework conditions for people and businesses. A study conducted by Møreforskning among business actors and public actors in the action zone shows that there are three main measures that stand out as important for their own activities. The first is zero employer's fee in the zone. The second is a reduction in personal tax, and the third is a write-down of student loans. What emerges from the survey is that two of the three main measures in the zone are related to taxes and charges. Therefore, it was, and is, still important to the Right that these measures be maintained in unreduced strength. Especially happy is to see that all parties now support the Syse government's tax model in the zone. Reduced taxes have proved to be the best way to create new jobs, a fact that also intervenes in today's general tax debate. The subscription of student loans of up to 10 p.m., with a ceiling of SEK 16 500 per year, is also considered an important measure by Finnish business leaders. This helps to ensure the recruitment of skilled workers in all industries, and this action is particularly important when highly skilled workers are sought throughout the world. Although the write-down of student loans is an important incentive for highly educated people to seek employment in Nord-Troms and Finnmark, the measure has so far had the greatest impact in the public sector. The biggest challenge for the region is to create more profitable jobs in the private sector. It is precisely a one-sided corporate structure and a vulnerable business that is the reason why low-economic conditions are becoming so hard into Finnmark. When the Finnish and North Trom and Finnmark actions are brought forward by the Co-operation Government, this is probably a confirmation that the Government still considers that the area has special challenges. Unfortunately, there has been a moderate focus on the action zone since its adoption in 1990 by the majority of the population. I am therefore very pleased that the Government is now submitting a big message about the Action Zone 14 years after its introduction. I also noticed that the Right had to go to the government before this matter came up again. The cancellation message we are handling today clearly confirms that the action zone has come to stay. At the same time, the communication reaffirms the positive will of the Right and the Cooperative Government to exempt employers’ fees in the zone, which one wants to continue. Another important contribution The government signals, is to make the benefits of living in North Troms and Finnmark more known for the rest of the country. Studies carried out between enterprises and public authorities show that very few people in the rest of the country are aware of the economic benefits of living and establishing themselves in the action zone. In order to stimulate migration and to curb the decline of the population, the opportunities available and the benefits of living in the action area need to be spread to the maximum extent possible. Better marketing is also important to reach and stimulate business operators to take part in the benefits of establishing themselves in the zone, as I have underlined the importance of earlier in my post. The government has already granted funds to Finnmark County to promote the zone for the current year. I am therefore very pleased with the signals given by the Storing Communication for future efforts and marketing of the zone. In summary, the action zone, as it operates today, has a solid political anchor in collapse and government. This was among other things: important in the conflict between Norway and ESA with regard to the regionally differentiated employer fee. The current approach also shows that the special measures in place in Finnmark and Nord-Troms have finally been accepted by a large majority in this Chamber. When we deal with the action zone today, the divergent proposals are considerably reduced compared to 1990. One aberrant proposal is the opposition's wish to create a state action plan for the coast. Government parties can reassure the opposition that several departments are assisting in the coastal situation and therefore do not see the need to tie the effort up in a separate action plan. When the Action Zone is discussed, too many people have a good opportunity to present their heart issues in a broad sense concerning the Action Zone. In 1990, when examining the Proposition on the Action Zone, SV proposed the introduction of free schoolbooks in secondary schools in Nord-Troms and Finnmark. This was voted down by everyone, including the Workers' Party, who has recently made this a battle cause in the rest of the country. Today, too, there are proposals that have to be described as a little bit on the side of what is really being discussed. The proposal to amend the motor vehicle law for snowmobile tourism currently does not have a majority. The right view is that the intention of the proposal is good, but that it is promoted in the wrong time and in the wrong way. I believe that the revision to be made in the Motor Traffic Act after the evaluation of several pilot projects will pave the way for solutions that the minority is asking for here today. Snowmobile tourism can be a major industry in the action zone, and it is important that central authorities do not hinder it. I also believe that there are many other things in the Motor Travel Act that need to be amended, but that debate is not invited to take place now. It shall be taken at a later date. With regard to the proposal to extend the write-down of the student loan in the action zone, the right refers to its own proposal in the vote. This proposal signals a clear direction on the behaviour of the government parties in the case. Finally, the decision and decision to deal with the State budget is referred to, where it naturally belongs. Should developments in Finnmark go the way we all want, the key is profitable jobs in the private sector. This is best achieved through long-term solutions that improve the framework conditions for business, thus ensuring jobs and the future for those who want to live in the action zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e302	As case-rapporteur Ivar Østberg was involved in his speech, there is a broad political consensus on the main lines of this matter. The Progress Party supported the establishment of the Action Zone in Nord-Troms and Finnmark in 1990, and the Progress Party will also support the continuation of the instruments applicable to the Action Zone in an attempt to reverse the negative development of the population and business in this region. I just mention for the sake of order that geographically, the action zone is the country's 26 northernmost municipalities, and includes all municipalities in Finnmark and seven municipalities in Nord-Troms. In total, around 93 000 people live in the action zone and the total area is 59 000 km2. So it's a significantly larger area than the whole of Denmark we're talking about here. I have noticed that from all sides, representatives from the action zone have made it clear that the instruments have worked well and should be continued. Finnmark also called for further adjustment and strengthening of the instruments, for example: by indexing the personal deduction and the additional child's pension. However, the Committee has not found itself able to meet such wishes at this stage. The party noted that the establishment of the action zone had a positive impact during the first five years, from 1990 until 1995. But since then the effect has decreased, and the population has continued to decline. At the same time, jobs in the action zone have been lost at an increasing pace. The Progress Party supports the intentions of the Action Zone to create a new growth force in this region through a broad and long-term effort. However, this should continue to be done through general instruments, i.e.: they need not be applied for and they must cover all. The Party may provide its support for general and non-proprietary activities. In particular, in view of the significant challenges facing local authorities in the instrument area, the Progress Party has considered it appropriate to provide its full support for the continuation of the instruments, such as zero employers’ fees, exemptions from the electricity tax, lower personal taxes, extra child benefit and the write-down of student loans. But we have noticed that in three years' time the most effective instrument, zero employer's fee, will be evaluated by ESA, and that the scheme currently only works as an exception. We don't know what this is going to end up in. The Progress Party has often been accused of not taking any responsibility for district policy. They don't have a district policy and they want to shut down Utkant-Norway. This is a totally wrong picture of the party's district policy. By providing our full support for the continuation of the use of the instrument in the action zone, the Progress Party clearly demonstrates that the party is also seriously concerned with the challenges of District Norway. The Progress Party will also point out that in a macroeconomic perspective, the use of the instrument has a relatively modest proceeds effect for the State of about 10 %. DKK 2.5 billion in 2004. The impact of the instruments is intended to create 3,800 additional jobs in the action zone. Let's look at the price per person. work here, it's going to be about. 650 000 kroner, and I see, of course, that there are questions about such an operation. If the current use of the instrument in the action zone does not produce the desired effect in the future, we will have to ask questions about whether the scheme will continue for the future. But this will be determined in the future. With regard to the government's ambitious goal of having a rich diversity in the north, and that the action area will be an attractive region to live in and work and operate in, this may well be a vision that can be difficult to fully realise, as I see it at least. At present, the situation in the action zone has made the positive impact of the instruments largely invisible. Since 1995, the population has started to sink dramatically in several municipalities, especially in the coastal municipalities of Finnmark. The number of bankruptcies in the fisheries processing industry has been high, and we are talking about a major bankruptcy rate with subsequent high unemployment rates. Since fishing holdings and fishing have been a cornerstone for all years and the main basis for settlement and employment in coastal areas in the action zone, this has, of course, created major, negative ring-effects in local communities. Unfortunately, we have to conclude that after the action zone has now worked for almost 15 years, the positive effect appears to have been several times more limited. This is regrettable, but it's a proven fact. In violation of the objective, the deportation has continued. The population has continued to decline, and employment has been reduced. But then there is the big question, which was also raised by the case-rapporteur in his post: How much worse would the situation in the action zone have been today if the instruments had not been implemented in 1990? As Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen was also in his post and emphasised very strongly, Finnmark County is today in a very serious crisis, although it benefits from many advantages, both through the action zone and not least through the North Norway grant in the income system. I believe to record that many speakers from the region are now trying to mitigate the seriousness of the situation, in fear that too much negative focus itself creates increased pessimism and reinforces the problems facing the continent. I get it. In Honningsvåg, the population has dropped by about 40 pst. in the last 20 years. Overall, the coastal municipalities of Finnmark have lost 25 pst. of the population during this period, and this is dramatic. But after all, there is hope, too. Light points are available. In the four largest central municipalities, Alta, Hammerfest, Vadsø and Kirkenes, there is growth, and this is, of course, very happy isolated. At the same time, there seems to be an inconvenient optimism and belief in the future among many rapporteurs and other people in the region. The will to get over the knee is present at many in Finnmark. It's important. From the outside, however, this future-optimism may seem unrealistic. But in Finnmark you have, as you know, the ride of many a storm in the past, too, so in this part of the country, most of it is possible. Finally, we hope that the growth power and optimism will return to these municipalities in the high north. We trust that local forces in interaction with key actions in total will strengthen the country's ability to secure housing and create new productive jobs. By continuing the drug use in the action zone, the Progress Party and the Stortinget hope to facilitate the strengthening of opportunities for future housing and employment in Finnmark and Nord-Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e334	SV has supported the action zone in Nord-Troms and Finnmark. It's been important. We have also seen the need to strengthen some of the measures that the zone involves. But when that is said, there are enough changes in many other policy areas that are so important for the action zone to have a better development both in the people and in the economy than it has had in recent years. The action zone in Nord-Troms and Finnmark is highly vulnerable. It is vulnerable in terms of geography, climate, population and ecology. That is why it is very vulnerable to more market governance and more right-wing policy. This seems bad in areas that are far from large markets, where local markets are small, and where structural adjustment is difficult if only market management is considered. The son is also very vulnerable ecologically. We see that in the reindeer industry, where the reindeer number is too high. We see it absolutely in the fishing industry, and also when it comes to oil and gas activities in the sea areas. In the case of oil and gas, SV has been opposed to extraction in the area both because of the increase in the level of greenhouse gas emissions, which is a very important consideration, and because the Barents Sea and the area around the Lofoten are the most productive marine areas in terms of plankton, fish, bird and marine mammals. Our large commercial fisheries, upon which Finnmark is so incredibly dependent, are totally dependent. When both the Directorate of Nature Management and the SFT have been critical of the impact studies that were behind the expansion of the petroleum industry, SV believes that the Government – and the Workers' Party for that matter – should have allowed doubt to benefit nature and the environment, and not open up oil activities in the area. SV will also stress the importance of fisheries for coastal settlement. SV disagrees with the Government’s fisheries policy. We believe that it is poor for the sustainability of fisheries as such, for the sustainability of organic fish stocks and for Finnmark. It is therefore necessary to introduce a new fisheries policy. The most important thing is to have a financing system that ensures local processing of the raw material. There are many companies that are now bankrupt. The structure of this may not be right now, but there is no doubt about our policy that we believe that much more of the raw material will be taken ashore in Finnmark and processed there. Effective measures must be taken to comply with universal service obligations. Other countries, such as Iceland, has regimes for this that make it a real economic loss for those who do not comply with the universal service. SV also disagrees with the government's district policy, the government's municipal economic policy and the government's lack of commitment to research and development. All of these areas are hard hit by the action area and it is because the action area is vulnerable when there is no willingness to take broad societal considerations instead of market and efficiency considerations. With regard to the action zone and the measures taken as such, both personalised measures and general measures are envisaged. SV wants to focus most on the general measures. But there are two personalised actions that we have thought have been important to do now. One is the writing down of student debt. I see it as not being a majority for the proposal to do this now, but I choose to perceive the majority of the Storting positive when they say they have an intention to do it. This measure has worked. SV also asks that you look at a scheme where you can get less depreciation in the first year and then increase in the future. This will help people to live longer in the son, and they will be more closely associated with the son’s longer they live there. We know that helps people become. We also know that this ensures professionals for important skills. We've also wanted to reintroduce the boarding school for high school students. In the son, there are extremely many people who have to stay in the dormitory when they go to high school. We know that's precious. In particular, it is important to be able to travel home. We also know that the drop-out, i.e. those who don't complete high school, is very high in the zone. We know that especially many young boys linked to primary industries have low education and that there is a very gender-based labour market in Finnmark. That is why we believe that the outreach grant is important to have there, so that we have a system that makes it a little more attractive and easier to pursue higher education. We have also said that wage subsidies for pre-school teachers and teachers are very important. The pre-school grant is still in existence but has to be assessed while the teacher’s grant has been removed. They've been very important. We have also pointed out that wage subsidies should be assessed in other areas. I want to point to the dental health in particular. If you look at the statistics on the number of dentists per. person in Finnmark, it looks like the coverage is very good, and it might be if you count heads. But the dentist must be close to you when you need one. It's not okay if it's 15 to 20 miles to the dentist. That means you have to have a structure on these services that is such that people don't have to travel 20 miles to get to something as simple, when it's sometimes as acute, as a dental service. We have also wanted the professional and pedagogical reinforcement measures that were previously included as additional grants to be in place again. It is because we know that education is very important in all regions, but especially important in the declining regions, so that you have a growth force in the small population you have. SV has been very concerned about Barents' cooperation and that the Secretariat will be strengthened there, which will ensure the development of interaction, cooperation and trade with the regions to the east. We were very disappointed when the budget was presented and it was cut in these posts. We want this secretariat to receive funding that will enable us to invest in these important markets, which are close markets for Finnmark, which are large and interesting markets, but difficult. It has been shown that it has been difficult to do this. Therefore, we must ensure that this work is not slowed down, but reinforced. So we have had some points of view when it comes to the development of e.g. aid for transport in the region. We see that the government believes that the county councils have received money to provide transport support within their general instruments. It's probably a meaning that the government has, that largely the county councils have got money to do everything, with the small resources they have. Nevertheless, we see that parts of Finnmark’s business have a strong need for this. The county has small resources to contribute, and if it is lawful and possible for the state to establish a transport aid scheme for these enterprises in Finnmark within the EEA legislation, it is difficult for us to see that the State could not do so. Using the space within the EEA legislation to establish fully targeted support schemes against the business community requesting help, we find a bit unacceptable that the Government does not follow up. We have also asked, once again, that when you look at the revision, or the notification, as it says, of the exemption scheme for employers' fees in the action zone, this work is prepared in good time. The round we've had now, until we got this exemption, and what the regime should be like after the new EEA legislation was implemented, we shouldn't have another one. The actual political space we have to be able to use instruments should be thoroughly prepared and thoroughly explored. There are several governments that have failed. I appeal as strongly as I can, to the government we now have, to use its creativity and find the opportunities we have to conduct good district policies within the EEA legislation. That creativity has so far been lacking, but there are far greater possibilities than the ones we've used for now. Those possibilities should be used. I refer to the suggestions that SV is part of the package in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e368	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e371	Empty local to former fish processing farms in Mehamn, in Båtsfjord, in Vardø – the most known absurd when the committee was travelling in winter. It is most absurd that this part of the country should be dealing with a Minister of Industry who advocates business neutrality, and a Minister of Fisheries who thinks that the market should be raw. A new fisheries policy, increased local resource use, universality, regional quotas, available risk capital is needed. It is not day-to-day that a party triggers an alarm. It's done in Finnmark. The Centre Party is associated with the Workers' Party and SV to propose a State action plan for the economic activities of the fisheries communities in the action zone. The action zone for Nord-Troms and Finnmark is the strongest regional policy effort undertaken by the State in any area of the country. It is absolutely necessary. This area has very special challenges in terms of population density, climatic conditions and long distances. More research concludes that efforts in the action area should be stepped up, given that a demographic development would make it difficult to maintain the set-up. The central party is responsible for a completely different and more offensive district policy than the government proposes. Unfortunately, with the support of the Progress Party, the Government has failed to achieve the goals of district policy through changing building goals, and not least through a strong reduction in regional and industrial policy. More research is just about strengthening selective, innovation-right food. Troms and Finnmark county councils have both made important contributions to their work. In the Center Party, we have no reason to review the suggestions requested. We think there needs to be a significant reinforcement. Consideration should be given to both a new fisheries policy and to ensuring the need for risk capital in the context of industrial development. We want VAT exemptions for Sami duodji. We want price regulation and a strengthening of the rights of the agency. We want to expand the system of writing down student debt, but we actually also think that we should look at both a price adjustment of child benefit, an indexation of the bottom deduction of Finnmark tax and a reintroduction of the grant for overcoming elephants. The centre party will also pass on the pay bill to pre-school teachers, and we will pass on the pay supplement scheme for teachers. We will also continue the system of professional and pedagogical reinforcement measures. So a positive development in the action zone depends on a new policy course for Norway. In particular, it is important to give priority to reinforced infrastructure development – road, aircraft, ports, broadband – a strengthened and coordinated regional policy, a stronger industrial policy effort and a strengthened local economy. One of the biggest failures of this government is its misconception in relation to the public sector and its significance, not least in terms of the role of municipalities and county councils. Finnmark County Council and Trom County Council, both of them, are in practice regional development actors. It may not be difficult to understand that municipalities too are particularly vulnerable in the action area, as it is essential that they have resources, not just for school, for care and for culture, but actually also for the actor they are to be when it comes to industrial development. There are many who now have high expectations for more jobs in the oil and gas industry. In the Central Party, we have said that it was important to wait for the whole management plan to come before decisions could be taken on increasing petroleum activity. Then we found it rather embarrassing that the state has not so far provided State funding for the Barents Secretariat. With the possibilities there, it must be a priority task. In the end, I take up my proposals from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e392	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e396	Today’s debate shows that there are many people who care about and expect developments in the far north of the country. I'm not hiding that the tools in this toolbox have been and are important to the development we've seen. The action zone has worked well. The action area has been stabilising, and the action area has helped to improve the business environment in Nord-Troms and Finnmark for a very unique investment. I am thinking, of course, of the big industrial trip that is taking place in connection with the development of Snow White. It's the biggest industrial investment in North Norway ever. When work is now started in new fields further east of the Barents Sea, some coastal areas of eastern Finland will also be part of the gas adventure. You could say that the action zone is in place at the right time. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is? A week ago, I attended the large annual conference for travel life in Finnmark. There is optimism in the Council, an optimism I have rarely seen make. The tourism industry is, according to its own statement, the second largest industry in Finland. The number of visitors during the winter season is increasing. Substantial amounts are invested in increased marketing and businesses want to invest in natural advantages. Think if the Government could agree to provide very little extra in such a good time for business in the north, not in crowns and ears, but that they – I had almost said – had moved the decimal to the right a little in relation to the regulation on motor travel in the outland, so that the guests could be offered an organized Sami travel product right from the hotel door! The II proposal on which the Workers' Party is involved is tailor-made for the travel life operators in the interior of Finland. My claim is that this proposal would help limit snowmobile travel in many of these areas. The argument used to not support our proposal is that there is a pilot project in which eight Norwegian municipalities have extended their powers in the field of motor travel. The project will be completed in 2005. Then it's going to be evaluated, and then the government is going to see if the law is going to change. The justification cannot be regarded as anything but a substitute. Our proposal does not imply an extended authority to the municipalities. In our proposal, it is still the county council, the state's extended arm, who is to make the decision, as the county council decides today. Changing the snowmobile regulation was one of Finnmark's best election campaigns in 2001, and how much was it worth? Nothing. Is it nice that the tourism industry in the north is disappointed? So a little bit about chapter 7 of the message. There we find some of the areas of action that this government has focused on, namely innovation and innovation. I have said that before, and I would like to repeat it today: In this area, the Government shows interest. It shows initiative and, at least, verbal will for targeted action. That's good! Innovation and innovation in business are a ‘must’ to maintain housing and create interesting, safe jobs for young people both in the north and in the south. I would like to point out that targeted actions that stimulate bud shooting in existing businesses are often easier to achieve than to establish new ones. Despite reducing the resources of the regional instrument through several budgets, the Government has shown its willingness to focus on this important work – innovation and innovation. It is therefore sad that not a unanimous increase today can say yes to an action plan for the areas now lying down. It would have meant a lot to the people who live there. So far in the debate I have not been able to see what strategy the Government has. But the government should be challenged to give a good response to the coastal population in these areas, otherwise the disparities between the bankrupt coastal areas will be reinforced in relation to the positive developments we see in the Alta-Hammerfest region, and which we hope will soon be reflected in the areas to the east. Finally, in the Communication, the Government states that the challenge is to develop a regionally based innovation policy that builds up under regional advantage. I could imagine challenging the Council of State on this and asking the Minister to clarify what the Government means by the wording, and whether the Council of State sees this good objective as contrary to our proposal for an action plan for coastal areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e415	I have been at Stortinget for so long that I was involved in the establishment of the action zone. I also remember the background for the establishment of the action zone. When someone says that it is rare for a statesman to write such a letter, I have to remind you that the action zone, among other things. came on the basis of a popular reaction to the policy of the then Labour Party government vis-à-vis Finnmark — and this led to the entry of a state into the Stortinget with its own list. What is now defined as the action zone, and the whole package of instruments, is related to the cooperation between him and the Syse administration and to the impulses of that very cooperation. I think you should give credit for that. I was a little surprised by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen's contributions, because that was not entirely in line with what was actually the background to the establishment of the action zone. At the same time, it can be said that, in the action area, there are measures that existed before — and there are many good measures that work, but it is also important to remember that there were two different challenges to try to address with the action area. One was the traditional and very strong district challenge in Finnmark, linked to the lack of skilled labour in many public positions. The flow rate was fast. There were many people who quickly disappeared from work. So it was a business development challenge: creating new jobs outside the public sector. When assessing the measures in the action zone, they have been particularly successful in creating a different development in the public sector. Finnmark is now coming out better than many other districts in terms of the coverage of highly skilled professionals, and it is actually a very good development in the public sector in Finnmark, which is also learning for the rest of District Norway. It continues to be a key challenge to create a greater degree of new types of jobs in the private sector, including: because Finnmark has been, traditionally, very vulnerable to resource fluctuations in fisheries and to financial fluctuations in fisheries. I want to remind you that we have refinanced and saved – five years have passed, and we have had a new crisis. Then we have refinanced and saved, and then five years have passed, and there has been a new crisis. Now I am making sure that we pay for the refinancing made in the mid-1990s, and there is a lot of money that is now lost for the public in a new refinancing of the fisheries structure we have per year. the date of issue. And it is not the will of political Norway to say that the main problem is something else, namely that District Norway has most of the competitive business in this country – in Finland, the fisheries sector in particular. And it's primarily our ability to be competitive that is decisive for whether we can do this or not. It's not state action packages, it's not new refinancing packages, but it's our ability to keep the entire economy competitive that's also the biggest challenge for Finnmark. In the action area, there are many instruments that reduce competition and lower cost levels — and this should be lower. You have lower taxes, and you have zero employers' taxes, which would make it more interesting to invest. And there I probably don't think – I've said that often – that Finnmark has been good enough to market the action zone, to convince investors that this is good. It is largely Porsanger municipality that has done a job in terms of reaching out to them. I think there have been great expectations that things should come of themselves. So they haven't come off on their own. Active marketing, active work is needed here, and the truth is that what we do not like about the change in the differentiated employer's fee is actually an advantage for Finnmark. Relatively, it is even more beneficial to place and build new jobs in Finnmark after this change. In addition to this, this government has probably made the biggest and most important effort in relation to Finnmark, which has opened up again for exploration in the Barents Sea, which will result in more areas in Finnmark – not just the Hammerfest area – getting stronger impetus from exploration activities and the subsequent exploitation of natural resources in the Barents Sea. I am therefore very concerned that the worst thing we can do in view of Finnmark's future is to create a picture of that in Finnmark everything is bad and difficult, and it is impossible to do anything there. It's actually quite important for Finnmark for marketing reasons to say that yes, we have good public services in Finnmark, it happens very well up here, there are good conditions, and it should be interesting to move there. It's only when we get something that gives a better balance to Finnmark's economy, even when it comes to setting up private jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e434	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e437	There are two challenges that appear to be particularly serious in Finnmark. Firstly, it is the living conditions situation in Inner Finnland, which is among the worst in the country, that the Stortinget has taken up on several occasions. Secondly, the situation in coastal areas is particularly serious. In my post I referred to the fact that the county council in Finnmark has also raised the question of a state action plan. There is a need to get activity going, so that the people who go unemployed have a future to look forward to and get a job to go to. Why does the Government not take inward the seriousness of both the state, the rapporteurs in Finnmark and now also the majority of the municipal committee? As far as the background is concerned, I don't have any problems with giving Right Credit for the introduction of tax measures, although it's actually the Labour Party government that has increased them to the level they now have. However, I assume that the Council of State also remembers that the Right actually voted against removing the employer’s fee in Finnmark, and that most of the measures are measures proposed by others. Finally, I must be allowed to say very briefly that it is interesting when the Council of State indicates that the Right now opens the oil well – let me remind you that it was also the Right that closed. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e446	The President asks the representatives to respect the time set aside.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e449	So it was also this government that made sure to do the processing that was not done by the previous government, so that the Snow White expansion could actually happen without us having major problems with ESA. One of the important things is not to run things quickly and quickly without controlling them. Instead of doing good work in advance, the previous government’s round created relatively high levels of uncertainty. I want to say, yes, we have challenges in Fisheries Norway. We have challenges especially on the coast of Finnmark. When we say that there is no need for a separate action plan for this, it is because the main focus is on general instruments, and there is actually a need for some restructuring. There are, among other things: in relation to the delivery obligations made changes by the Ministry of Fisheries. There has been some concern about what has been criticised in some areas of the fishing industry, namely ensuring that supplies are better distributed in time in relation to the mainland industry. For one of the main problems has been that deliveries have gone up and down. There has been a great deal of progress at one time, so that there has been a low quality because there is a short-term intoxication. Then you have to permite, because there has suddenly been no more resources left. This is why there are a number of elements that need to be built slowly, but – and it is important to say – a much more solid basis for a structure that will be viable in the future also in Finnmark. So this government has moved many more jobs to Finnmark than any other government has ever done. Among other things, we have moved jobs to Inner Finnmark, which has not been focused in the past. For this purpose, living conditions are also about getting more highly skilled jobs into these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e458	The Council of State stated in its statement that creating new jobs in the private sector was a priority and was important. I'll just show you a little example in that way. When the committee was in Finnmark, we were presented with the problems that travel businesses and hotels had in being able to operate snowmobilesafari – therefore, proposals have been made today to access the legal loop network. It was produced as a major and important challenge for tourism — and attract tourists — in Finnland. So this is the government's rejection. We hear festivities, but when it comes to the play, to practical examples, you disagree. Why is the Government opposed to facilitating travel activities by accessing hotels and travel companies to the snowmobile network in Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e467	It has been clear for a long time that the regulations relating to snowmobile activities should be revised, based, inter alia, on: on the trials in eight local government municipalities. We've had a main line on that, that we're waiting to make changes, and we're taking all of these issues into account for the change of regulation to be done. I want to say that our ambition is to do it quite quickly, not wait long enough for it, once we're done with this period. We're facing a lot of such challenges that we should do a little bit here and there, for example. to liberalise or make changes related to snowmobile operations. We're taking with us all those things, but we've said that the entire main audit is going to happen right away, so we're going to see all the things in context – and make sure that we get a sustainable governance regime also for the use of snowmobiles. Then I want to say: there are tourism in silence too, not only in snowmobiles.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e476	Yes, I fully agree with the Council of State. The Council of State points out that it is important to launch private activities in the area, and that is precisely why the majority of the Committee is promoting a proposal for a State action plan. When the committee was traveling in Finnmark, we also met with the banking industry, which says that they are not financing any of the companies that now need to get up. We also met with Innovation Norway, which says that no, they do not intend to finance the companies that are located below. The structure of these companies may not be correct today. But if we don't make sure that any of these companies get up and get a production that is so varied that they can take some of the fluctuations that are in the fisheries, that production will establish itself elsewhere – and that's what it's about to do. That's what's so vulnerable. That's why we have to get going. A much stronger structural change in the fleet will also have to happen, but not in the direction that the Government will, because then the fish will not end up in Finnmark – then it will end up anywhere else. Workplaces and economics related to it then generate wealth elsewhere. How has the Government intended to meet that challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e485	I do not believe in any refinancing of businesses that do not also consider private capital to be profitable. In fact, I do not believe that we can pick winners and losers from the state or state agency. Then I just think that we're going to continue as we do now, that we're paying, among other things. for the refinancing round of the fishing industry in the mid-1990s by the Minister of Fisheries at that time, refinancing after five to six years because there was no market basis for operation. Therefore, there has to be cooperation between public and private capital. Innovation Norway has a framework for entering and investing. They have also been replenished by the loss fund linked to it. But they have to find it commercially profitable and likely that businesses will be able to cope in the future. If they believe that the criterion is not met, I think it is actually to throw blues in people's eyes that we should go in and refinance if we know that in five years' time you will be in the same situation. Let me also say that structural changes are important. The most important thing is that we are able to deliver fish at a competitive price in the markets where we are going to sell the fish. That is why I believe that SV's policy is wrong. We cannot make export industries a purely domestic industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e494	The Council of State focused on the subject in its article, among others: on the major resources, both natural and personal, that are in Finnmark — the more attentive to the passive attitudes of the Government with regard to the future in the northernmost part of the country, and how government and growth can contribute. For example, the government says: that each measure should be assessed in the context of the annual State budget. There is no particular reason for optimism. In addition, the government says: «The government will ensure the basis for equivalent living conditions primarily through the municipal income system.» Can municipalities in Finnmark count on more money for school and care, for culture and for business development? Can they possibly expect there to be a match between tasks and resources? Or are they supposed to cut, like today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e507	I think it's a little amazing that the government can be accused of the passive attitude of a party that is deeply skeptical of the development of, among other things. the main future industry in Finnmark. If we're really going to look at what creates new jobs and new types of activity, it's related, among other things. to natural resources, which the Centre Party is traditionally very concerned about using. When we look at how development is in Hammerfest, a development that is really too fast in the sense that it's going to be a Klondike mood, and that the effect should spread over larger parts of the county, you'll see that it's just where you're probably getting the biggest growth impulses, the biggest innovation initiatives. There are also some new types of enterprises and new types of activities such as ring-fenced development itself. When we are concerned with annual government budgets, it is because we have to make government budgets that are ultimately linked. That is why, among other things: We cannot promise to increase the study funding as much as the Workers' Party has proposed. But it is clear from the big news that we are positive about it, and that we will come back to it in connection with government budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e516	It is very good that Snow White has been developed. I note that it happened with the tax solution that the Workers' Party actually proposed, but limited to Nord-Troms and Finnmark. At the same time, I told the Council of State that I think it is alarming that the Council of State boasts that an oil company has been opened up that you shut down again. It's hardly very much to boast of. But it makes a strong impression to travel from place to place along the coast of Finnmark and note that the population has fallen by over 25 pst. in the last 20 years, see that industrial activities which were part of new and modern buildings have been shut down, that more than 1 000 industrial workers have been out of work, and that 40 pst. has gone bankrupt in the course of a year or so. So the Council of State says that there are general instruments that should work. They're cut from 179 million. NOK 113 million. kr. But when industrial societies stop, it is not just general instruments that get them going again. Political craftsmanship is required, and the Government has not been close to exercising in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e527	I fully agree that it makes a strong impression to see any society that is being emigrated. It is a human tragedy for those who have committed themselves on the ground and who wanted to continue it, and who in fact also lose large sums associated with, among other things. housing. This is why it is so incredibly important to have politicians who dare to take restructuring when they are needed. I think Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen should think about how many of these coastal new buildings came after he was Minister for Fisheries, and how, at that time, shifting the need for conversion that was there, and that has made us still in this five-, six-, seven-year cycle – from crisis to refinancing, from crisis to refinancing. I think it's time we took time to find the businesses that are most viable, and where we get private capital to stand up, so that we don't have a crisis in seven years' time, where new people have invested money and new communities all the time feel threatened. We are committed to finding instruments to make the fishing industry in Finnmark competitive, including in terms of production.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e536	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e541	It's a liberating openness on the part of the Council of State. You understand what she's saying, and it makes it all the easier to disagree. Two weeks ago, a fisherman from Alta City called me, and he described the situation in Kavfjord. Quail soil is a very small place in Alta municipality. He told me that six initially had vessels that enabled them to deliver to the local fish farm. So he said that the government is adding up to a policy where you pay people money to dispose of the vessel under 15 meters, while Alta Municipality is doing what they can to maintain the fishing farm that is in Kavafford. And then he said, "At the same time, you're wondering why people are moving from the quail soil." He further said that someone who has a fishing vessel there does not see himself profited from letting his son take over that vessel. The state pays him too well for it. It's too uncertain, and the factory jet fleet takes the resources south to get them further processed. He said that it had not been very difficult to take allowances from the factory jet fleet and make sure that the vessels that the Government is now actively paying to be disposed of were strengthened, in order to get renewed activity. It wasn't like that that son didn't want to stay in Kavfjord. He wanted to be there. But the point is that when you have a government that actively pays people money for them to move, people end up moving whether they want to or not. I have heard quite a number of people saying that there is a greater threat to the settlement of Coastal Finland than the Government and the Minister for Fisheries per year. current date not. It's relatively clear speech, and you see that. You get it when you go around. A policy of getting money to give away what was going to feed your life, that is, the vessel, makes people end up moving. I want to say that what the debate in many ways bears the mark of the Government's side is the discussion of buttons and gloss pictures of a population that had had access to raw materials and resources, and was given the opportunity to further process this locally. It is quite well done by one of the Right Representatives to make a ten-minute post – the main post – without mentioning the word fish once. But that was actually the case. That's understandable, because as soon as you start talking about it, you're in an area where the Right helps depopulate the coast of Finnmark. Now it goes so fast that we see that you might lose 5 pst. of the population in a year, or up to 20 pst. during a 10-year period. It's no use for Erna Solberg to talk around, no matter how clearly she speaks – namely, that the government's policy has led to the maintenance of this development. Finnmark faces challenges that are greater than ever before. There is a certain difference between the Labour Party approach. The population didn't go down so fast when the Workers' Party sat down with the government force.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e558	One question that needs to be asked is that of the opposition parties: why did not the parties that have made up the majority for most of the period following the introduction of the action zone implement all these measures that are requested in today's debate? I think it has been skillfully avoided to answer this question, while at the same time making every effort to spread a pessimism in today's debate that must scare people who might think of moving back to the action zone. You make sure to completely shade the many great and positive possibilities that exist in this area. At least the scope of the action zone is not needed when the last Minister of Finance, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, left the government office in 2001. They had a strenuous effect on all competitive sectors in North Troms and Finnmark, and made sure that we were at the top of Europe when it came to interest rates – if in the name of justice we ignore Russia, which we do not have to compare with now. Almost as in a post-game clean-up, you now see the negative effects. The framework conditions led to a price at which competitors Nord-Troms and Finnmark did not have a nubbess – strongly backed up by the fact that the fishing industry has had completely impossible framework conditions. Among other things, the Centre Party and SV in today’s debate – every day – actively provide Norwegian fishing industry with the worst possible framework conditions and export conditions. They're actually fighting to make even worse by cancelling the EEA Agreement. I think one forgets to look at the current market outlook for oil and gas – the new market window that opens up in the context of snow-white development. The centre party and SV call for action in today's debate. The largest project that has been carried out over the years in North Troms and Finnmark, which these days provide local supplier industries with jobs and orders for DKK 1.7 billion, which in sum overshadows all the measures that any plan could give. This should put these batches in a serious embarrassment. This does not mean that this region is not facing major challenges, but we must not stick a mourning framework around this region, which I feel those who have been sitting with most of the government and care from 1990 to today have done. You can't ask for any more plans, which we have enough of for this area. We must help to give the region a competitive edge so that it can survive in the market in which to sell its goods and services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e569	First, I have to do a visit to what the council said. She doesn't think it's possible to go in with public capital unless private capital is included. But no one has asked for a business life along the coast that is based only on public capital! Furthermore, the Council of State said that we need to restructure the fishing industry. In fact, it seems that the Council of State believes that the day the Bondevik government came to power, thought: We must start with restructuring in Finnmark – in the fishing industry, in the municipal sector or in other sectors. As if there has not been a continuous restructuring in Coastal Finland about since 1950! So to the representative Kristiansen, who said we shouldn't draw a black mourning band around the action zone. It has not, in truth, been done by the Workers' Party. There was not one word in my post that was negative. There was not one word that did not show optimism. I tried to find out in the best way the “goods” development on Snow White has given our region, and the optimism that exists in the business world, in travel life and in the Kirkenes region now reaches the gas production and exploration towards the east. There is one field that has received little attention today, and it is Inner Finnmark. I have a heart for these areas, and there I think the government might have to have a focus. There has not been much talk about it in the message either. I should like to say briefly that the reindeer industry has a major challenge. When the calving is finished this spring, there are 200,000 pure in Finnmark. It's clear that the result of this is that when spring comes, a large number of these animals will starve in size, because it's not enough food for everyone. It will be an ecological disaster, and there will be a dramatic situation for the animals. I had hoped that the next crossroads could have had a greater focus on inner strokes and the challenges that lie there, both economic and social. The size has a responsibility to take a little hold on these regions. We're good at talking about travel life, and we're good at talking about fish, but we should also take a lift for the Sami people in Inner Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e587	Ivar Kristiansen does not deny himself. I have to be allowed to repeat to him that the Workers' Party has actually implemented the Student Loan Scheme, we have had the employer's fee removed in Nord-Troms and Finnmark, against Højre's votes, we have had a significantly higher level of regional policy instruments, with 179 million. kr against today's 113 mill. kr, and we have had specific investment tax instruments in the northernmost areas. When I was Minister of Finance, fishing research, which is to bet on the future of this industry, actually increased by 60 pst. in a single year. But it was cut immediately after Svein Ludvigsen took over the Ministry of Fisheries and Per-Kristian Foss Ministry of Finance. When I myself was a fisheries minister, we also had challenges along the coast of Finnmark, that's quite correct. We introduced a new financing scheme for the fishing fleet, which allowed for up to 50 pst to be stimulated. State grants in the case of new vessels. This led to fleet renewal. We started the industry that was quiet. We imposed delivery conditions on the trawls, and we followed up and tightened up against those who did not fulfil the universal service obligation. We doubled the number of farming concessions in one year. Then the representative Kristiansen says we're painting black. Yeah, we're explaining that in a year, 40 pst went by. of the fishing industry facilities in Finnmark bankruptcy or in a bankruptcy-like situation. 1 000 industrial workers were unemployed. So the representative Kristiansen says that we should forget this – because it disturbs Right's ideal of tax relief for those who have good jobs and good income. But it may be time for the representative of Kristiansen to come out of the idyll and look at the reality of the people affected by this unemployment. The government's behaviour is not only sad, but the majority of the Municipal Committee of Storting notes that it is «highly critical».
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e596	In addition to what was now said, the representative Kristiansen claimed that the government's financial and monetary policy has been such that it has actually reduced interest rates at the right time. It doesn't have it at all! The government did nothing for a long time to ensure that the objective of monetary policy was to focus on something more than low inflation. And when you just sat stared at that number, and didn't care about unemployment or interest rates, didn't do anything to change this, then a lot of Norwegian industrial jobs smoked. That is the responsibility of this government. Then I also want to say that when it comes to the oil and gas business, it is true that SV has been critical of it. It is precisely because we follow the advice of the professional bodies, who believe that the impact assessment for all-year-old activities is not good enough and threatens the important nutritional basis that exists there, namely fish, which is a food tray for the whole world, and which is a resource base that I think is really getting the size of. We see that this is very vulnerable. It's probably making this issue difficult. But sometimes you have to make difficult choices, and then you have to take future ones into account. That's what we're trying to do, sail if it's hard. I hope that we can do this when it comes to fisheries policy. Instead of kind of ramming up who did what when, we have to see what we can do in the future to make sure that the market that's going to have the fish actually gets a fish that has a quality that makes it competitive. Then you can't bet unilaterally on the big fleet. Then you have to bet on the small boats, which Olav Gunnar Ballo was also up and talking about. Because they take the fish when it comes into the coast, and they take it in such a way that it has a quality that allows it to be sold at a completely different price than fish taken in another way. This is very important to think about. It is also very important to remember that if there is not a lot of private capital ready to finance some of the fish farms that are going to live in Finnmark – if we believe that we are going to have a fishing industry there, and that means at least SV – then the state has to take a responsibility now to be involved in laying the floor that makes someone want to take that risk. Then we'll have to discuss how this structure should be. So the state can't wait for a rich uncle to come and do this. It is the country that is the rich uncle who now has to make sure that activities start on land before all the business is moved elsewhere. There is little point in talking about the action zone for Nord-Troms and Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e605	I must honestly admit to this assembly that I am not completely familiar with all the descriptions that have been of the county in which I live. That is perhaps what has shaped the debate in the past and throughout history, that there are some who define as the truth what may not be quite right, as the last speaker suggests fisheries policy and fleet structure. One sort of forgets in the debate that 70 pst. by the quotas on the Norwegian side are taken by the coastal fleet and that the trawl fleet has been a very useful supplement for the Finnmark industry. My parents would actually not have had work it would not have been for the trawls. It's that simple. So the one-sided black paint that's here, I think you should stick to it too well. Then there's a fight about history, and that's what politicians like when they meet to the broom. When Stortinget discussed the action zone last time and it was about bankruptcy and the fishing industry, Anders Aune said the following: ‘The whole fishing industry, except for three enterprises, was bankrupt during the last working party administration.’ Then you can discuss who's to blame. The year when Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was Minister of Fisheries, the year the population of Finnmark fell most. Who's to blame? The employer’s fee is discussed. Who proposed to remove it, and who voted for it? Yes, it is true that the Labour Party, as they are doing now, made a proposal outside the budgetary procedure that was voted down, but it was the Syse government that included it in the budget and got it implemented. The delivery obligations – yes, it is true that it was Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen who introduced the principle, but it was Svein Ludvigsen who made the principle of functioning and making regulations to enforce it. Another thing that is also being discussed is the flight prices. If you read the report from Møreforsking, which is the background to the notification of the action zone, it is a moment to be taken up, the high cost of travelling by air, and it is referred to as a problem in Finnmark. Since the Cooperative Government came to power, air prices in Norway have fallen by 25 pst. One can now fly one way from Alta to Oslo for 400 kroner — while the cheapest ticket when the Cooperative Government came to power was 2000 kroner — as a result of active competition policy, as a result of reducing taxes and taxes. And I got a little frustrated when I heard the message from the main speaker from SV, where she spent a lot of her post apologizing because you don't want petroleum activity in Finnmark. Then I ask SV and those who are against it: what will Finnmark's population live on if you are against new industries and look back all the time for solutions for the future population in Finnmark? I'll ask you, what's the alternative? What will Finnmark live on if you say no to petroleum activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e622	Based on the high profile that Karin Andersen holds in his criticism of the Government, and so just as a little bit says that no, because one believes something that is very controversial, that the impact assessments should not be done well enough in relation to the opening in the Barents Sea, then you can't focus on it, in fact, I think you should calm down a little bit about the criticism of who is doing something for Finnmark and not, because then you have chosen to go on very uncertain analyses within one of the safest industries we have. I would like to remind you that the oil industry is among those who have decided fewer accidents, who have the greatest control over what they are doing compared to many other businesses, precisely because there are many vulnerable areas. Then I want to say to Eva Nielsen: yes, it is actually that over several years a competitive incapacity in the Norwegian economy has been built that is going to shut down District Norway first, if it continues. And so from May 2000 to January 2003, the competitiveness of Norwegian industry deteriorated by nearly 20 pst. From 1995 to 2002, only wage and salary statements had a deterioration of 14 p.m. in relation to competition. At the same time, we are getting stronger competition from other countries. It is clear that it will also affect all business activities in Finnmark, in District Norway and elsewhere, and then it is not just a matter of quick pinching and saying: more public action. So when I say general instruments, I'm not talking about regional development funds, I'm talking about the framework conditions for the Norwegian economy as a whole. This is related, and in Finnmark it was absolutely striking. So I would say that then it is possible that we should have tightened up more in the first half of 2002. But it's just a little bit relative to the whole big competition gap that's here. But what I really wanted to say is that I fully agree that we have a challenge in Inner Finnmark. Now we delivered a big message in 2002 as among others. referred to as part of the follow-up and conversion work in Inner Finnland. In particular, the development of reindeer management is worrying, but it is not just a question of the number of pure meat, at the moment it is primarily about the provision of reindeer meat – ensuring that there is market power for reindeer meat and getting it to the markets. If this whole industry isn't much more at risk, then you're producing a market you don't get into. It is an area where I know that the Minister of Agriculture is working intensively, both by ensuring that it is advertised for people to use more reindeer meat, and by working to gain market access. That is why we have established a regulatory policy for reindeer management. It has been discussed among reindeer owners, but it must therefore contribute to the balance of reindeer management also in relation to natural conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e631	I noticed that the representative Robertsen said that he did not recognise himself in the state in which he lives, and there may be a lot of the explanation that he is so concerned about addressing the problems that the county is facing. When you ask what to live on in the county if you're not going to live on from the petroleum industry, it's clear that you have a problem. When you look at the cavalry in Alta, you'll find 5,000-year-old cavalry of fishing gear, and probably you've been fishing for up to 10,000 years. The perspective we're talking about with regard to the petroleum activity is 20-50 years. With the rate of extraction requested from some, the perspective may be even shorter. So, as a representative of a state that has been fishing for between 5,000 and 10,000 years, what is the population going to live on? Don't you see that you have a problem? It is clear that what SV says is that we should manage resources, including in the case of petroleum activities, in a way that is sustainable and does not conflict with fisheries resources, and that we ensure that the food supply represented by fisheries resources is maintained, not only for Norway, but for the world as a whole, in a way that is not conflict-making. I remember sitting in the gallery in 1977, after having had a discharge in the North Sea. Then Bjartmar Gjerde had told me in advance that it was as likely to get a blow-out in the North Sea as a Chineseman of Norwegian parents would be born. And I remember Berge Furre saying that now a Chineseman is born of Norwegian parents. It is clear that the type of de minimis activity has always been heard by those who want to provide the business, and then it has been debatable even when the consequences came. The fact that there are lots in this room that are taken up by the impact investigations that the government itself is initiating, the government should be the first to be pleased. That's what we call responsible policy. And we see how the government is just securing a majority in terms of snowmobile driving in Finnmark. That is exactly where I fully agree with Mrs Solberg. If there's something you should be much better at in Finnmark, it's analyzing the possibilities that have to be available for tourism in other fields than just for motorized travel. I myself met two girls from Montana who went from Karasjok to Alta on skiing, and who had discovered that it was possible to do so, just through a little note in the tourist guide Lonely Planet. Finnmark has made no attempt to make it a tourist industry. I am absolutely convinced that the potential is great. Therefore, it is also important to analyse the impact of increased snowmobile use in a perspective where you should be concerned with business activities that provide space both for the type of tourism and for a tourism where people seek silence, get into the terrain on skis and perhaps travel over longer areas after traveling all the way from the other side of the world in order to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e644	I believe that, despite developments over the last 12 to 14 years in North Troms and Finnmark, the personalised measures have proved to be the most effective. And that's who we have to build on. Of course, it must be allowed, as the representative Robertsen did earlier in the debate, to ask the question: what are we going to live on in this region? What kind of jobs do you have to offer the part of the population you want to keep, or those you want to move back to Nord-Troms or Finnmark? That's where I record that the opposition doesn't at all pattern with a single answer. You choose to take refuge in the fog home when you ask this question. Then you can discuss the threat of petroleum activity etc. and take a discussion about it, but I just notice that those who call for action from the Government are opposed to most of the constructive measures that can help get real speed in North Troms and Finnmark. It's this government that put in place the Snow White project, and it's probably this government that -- hopefully -- gets a Snow White II project in place. I'm hopefully also in the situation that I think it's this government that has made sure that we're going to become an active part of the development of petroleum activities in the Barents Sea, starting with Nord-Troms and Finnmark. It can contribute to putting Norwegian environmental standards into place in an area that, regardless of what you might think in Norway, is going to be one of the largest petroleum regions in the world in a short time. That the Socialist Left has not realised that we have been reduced the interest rate in Norway from 7 pst. to 2 pst. from October 2001, there is little reason to be surprised, but it has at least resulted in Finnmark's population and business being left with an estimated DKK 1 billion more in their own books than would have been the case if Schjøtt-Pedersen's interest rate level were to be continued to the current date. Is there anyone in this room who thinks that the level we were at, the conditions of competition that existed then, would have given more speed in Nord-Troms and Finnmark? So you say you're concerned about the fishing industry. 95 pst. by what the industry in Nord-Troms and Finnmark produces is exported out of the country. At the same time as saying that one is interested in the fishing industry, one fights durably against the conditions of this industry in the market in which it is to sell goods and services. I record that there is no alternative for Nord-Troms and Finnmark to the policy of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e659	So there is a big message about the action zone and the means we have to deal with it, but it has gradually developed into a debate on petroleum activities, history and fisheries. With regard to the fishing industry, a fundamental condition is the clear imbalance between limited fishing resources and the over-total fishing and production capacity of fleets and industry. A realistic assessment of the situation suggests that this will have consequences both for the number of enterprises and for the number of persons employed. But it's a certain optimism to trace in the industry, and we're not going to paint in black, we're going to look at the possibilities. If we are to realise the industry's value creation potential, we now need to focus more on exploiting one of our major and most important advantages, namely the proximity of resources and the ability to supply large and purchasing markets with fresh products. This will require industry actors. Particular attention needs to be paid to the development of skills-based and profitable fishing industries capable of providing jobs, thereby contributing to the security of employment and rural settlements along the coast. This will mean increased use of modern technologies, and the Ministry of Fisheries, the organisations of the fishing industry and the instrument has for some time financed specific projects specifically for the development of, inter alia, the fishing industry. new filleting technology. Hopes are linked to the future use of such technology. In itself, however, this will not be enough. The effect comes only when combined with increased emphasis on direct communication between key market players, whether customers or consumers. Governments at both State and regional level support as mentioned for the current performance. This applies not only to co-financing but also to the organisation of business networks and other forums for the exchange of knowledge and information. In conclusion, I would like to point out that at the turn of the year the Minister for Fisheries set up his own working group, the so-called Green Nevet Group. The head of the working group and its six members have extensive experience in different sectors of the fisheries and aquaculture industry. Their mandate is to: ‘Propose changes to the public framework conditions and any other measures that may give rise to improvements in the profitability, competitiveness and value creation of the fishing industry’. The report and recommendations of the Group shall be handed over to the Minister for Fisheries on 15 June of this year. So I still do not see any need for the plan requested by the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e681	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e684	The people who are unemployed in the fishing industry in Finnmark see the need for this plan. They demand our attention, just as the communities that now have a significant decline in the population demand our attention. I note that the State's own representative in Finnmark, the County, is among those who have taken the initiative to develop such a plan. I can only strongly appeal to the Government to take a responsibility in relation to the people and communities affected. Secondly, this debate has been too much about history, as major debates unfortunately too often do. I believe that we now need to focus on the three challenges that lie on the table. It is to get the fishing industry going, it is to improve the instruments, as the majority of the committee recommends, by strengthening the study funding scheme, and there is a relatively limited extension in the field of motor travel, which could mean a great deal to developing business, and I think it is very unfortunate that there does not seem to be a majority for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e693	Karin Andersen has taken the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e696	SV has realised that the interest rate has fallen, but the point in my remark instead was that the government did not increase unemployment and the exchange rate in the Norwegian Bank's monetary policy mandate, but stuck and stuck to the inflation target for so long that many thousands of industrial jobs were lost. Now the government has turned around, and that's good, but it was too late, and the government has to take that responsibility. Those who are willing to take high environmental risks both locally and globally and on behalf of future generations can quickly get many jobs locally. It's a balance you have to take. SV has assessed it in such a way that the danger is now too great. It is absolutely right to have strong safety practices in the oil industry and in the oil industry, but the danger if it goes wrong is so great. That's what's very serious. [[The President clubs.]] I just want to point out to the vote...
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e705	The time has unfortunately ended, and the representative has spoken three times in the debate. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e708	Then I have to ask for the floor for an explanation of vote when the vote comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e713	You'll have to do that either. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2774]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e731	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there will be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e738	The size of the measure is currently addressing the 2002 Annual Report of the Sameting. The Annual Communication was adopted in Sametinget’s plenary session on 20 May 2003 and is annexed to the Annual Report. First of all, I am sorry that the suspension for time reasons has not yet been translated into Sami. This will be done as soon as possible. The setting of the Municipal Committee comments on issues raised by the Sameting, but also on issues raised after the adoption of the Sameting Annual Report. As rapporteur-in-Office, I am very pleased that there is a broad political majority on the same policy issue. All, with the exception of the Progress Party, are in line with a policy that ensures Sami culture, language, business development and social life. This majority also considers that the Sameting is the central authority’s leading premiscuous provider and dialogue partner in the common policy. The Committee has noted that the annual report on the composition of the pool indicates that the current structure of meetings between the Sameting and the central authorities is not satisfactory. It is therefore positive that the Government is working on developing procedures to ensure the participation of the Sameting in the development of common policies. On behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, I would like to recall the protection plan work in Tysfjord/Hellemo. We have expectations that the Sami interests in this lulesamian core area will be safeguarded in the process established between the Ministry of the Environment and the Sameting. Sami nutrition needs to be developed further. In this way, it is important to cooperate with local business and local authorities. Even more important is the establishment of cooperation with regional authorities in order to contribute to the maintenance of the Sami perspective in regional development. In their role as regional development operator, the municipalities with Sami settlements are also responsible for Sami economic development. In 2002, administrative responsibility for a number of cultural institutions and actions was transferred to the Sametinget. Within a framework allocation, priority should now be given to Sámi cultural activities. The majority of the Committee has noted that the conditions of Saemien Sijte in Snåsa are difficult. This is the main meeting place for Southern Sami culture and administration. We therefore ask the Department to assess the situation of Saemien Sijte. There's generally low registration in the same number. It's worrying. In particular, women are underrepresented – only 36 pst. women. Despite the implementation of projects aimed at women and young people, the objective of increasing female participation in the cohabitation has not been achieved. New recruitment campaigns to mobilise and recruit to the same number are therefore necessary. Similarly, the legitimacy of the voting system of the Sameness is under pressure as a result of the distribution of mandates. It is therefore essential for the Government to assess the different elements of the electoral system, the introduction and distribution of equalisation mandates and the representation of women. For the government parties, it is important to add that the Storting should continue to have overall responsibility for the electoral system for the Sameting. The Sameting addresses in its Annual Report the question of cheap payments for co-workers suffering from educational injury. Once again, I would like to take the opportunity to recall that the time is overdue for us to put in place a system of uprooting or compensation for those groups – indigenous people, national minorities or others – that have been subjected to public neglect or harassment. The Committee majority will challenge the Government to provide a quick clarification on these issues. An indigenous people must ensure their peculiarity by passing on their way of life, culture and values to future generations. It is therefore an important symbol and expression of a national desire for a strong and viable Sami culture that from 2004 the day of the Joint Peoples' Day, 6 February, has been made the official flag day in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e770	The big debate on the principles of common policy we had last year in connection with the principle communication, and I shall therefore confine myself to commenting very briefly on two aspects in the position. One is a question which the rapporteur also raised, which concerns the electoral system of the Sameting. The Labour Party believes, in principle, that it should be the Sameting itself that determines the electoral system on behalf of the Sami people, but takes note that a majority in the Storing believes that it is still the Storing that takes its position. Let me, however, stress that the Sameting has on several occasions highlighted the need for changes in the electoral system. I assume that the Government will follow it up, which the Committee also stresses the need for. However, I have noticed that from the political leadership of the Ministry of Local Affairs, there have been views on possible reforms in the electoral system of the Sameting that differ somewhat from what the Sameting itself has initiated. I assume that to the extent that changes are to be made to the electoral system, it is done in such a way that there is an opportunity for the Sameting to discuss it, and that no change is made to which the Sameting disagrees. The other thing that I would like to mention briefly is the comment that a majority of the committee also had in the last year's position, where one pointed out that many Sami people cannot read Sami, and that there is a need for newspapers directed at the Sami population, even if they write in Norwegian. It is therefore important to point out that strengthening support for Sami-language newspapers is not to be financed by a reduction in aid to Sami newspapers writing in Norwegian. In this case, the provision of information to the vast majority of the Sami population, which is dependent on information in Norwegian, will actually become worse. Moreover, I refer to last year's position and last year's debate on the fundamental issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e783	The progress party takes St.meld. No 10 for 2003-2004 on the activities of the Joint Undertaking for information purposes in 2002. On that occasion, however, I will be shown that the Progress Party stands for a completely different view from that of the majority in this area. When both in the message and in the setting reference is made to the fact that there is a large, but not a unanimous, uprising around the main lines of the Norwegian common policy, it is the Progress Party alone to which it is aiming. The Progress Party clearly believes that there are no important reasons to pursue a separate policy for co-workers in Norway. The Progress Party believes that the policies currently being pursued in this field, put into practice in an overall social perspective, are more damaging than beneficial. There are several good reasons to refrain from granting groups of people specific democratic, political and status rights in Norway, based on ethnicity. Discrimination against people on an ethnic basis is, in the long run, an unsustainable condition, even if this discrimination is so-called positive discrimination. Every Norwegian citizen, whether he is an Austrian, a Southerner, a common or a Northerner, shall have the same rights and obligations as the same political, democratic and social rights in Norway. But it's not like that today. For example: The unification, it is a kind of parliament whose ethnicity is absolutely crucial to the right to vote and to the right to stand as a candidate. It is pointed out that Samer has the status of indigenous people and is thus protected by international conventions that grant different rights. Here I would like to point out that, in the light of recent research, it is interesting to note that much indicates that Sami in Norway can hardly be regarded as indigenous per capita. definition, according to the criteria of international conventions. One important element in this is that cohabitants as a population were probably among the last to arrive in Finland in time and use the resources of the district. Other peoples had probably arrived in Finnmark long before they arrived together. And in such a historical perspective, it's not going to be right to define together as an indigenous population in Finnmark. The party of progress will abolish the law of union, and consequently we will put an end to the conspiracy and respect everyone in exactly the same line with all the other citizens of this country. - It was supposed to be missing! Such a procedure is the best and least conflict-making process in the long term. On the part of society, a conscious and real non-discrimination of people regardless of race or ethnicity is of paramount importance in order to avoid conflicts and social unrest. The Progress Party also strongly advocates that rights for the use of resources in Finnmark should not be based solely on Sámi requirements, but must be a good one for all those living in the whole state and all of whom should have their equivalent access and right to use. Equally right to land and water in Finnmark has long been the recipe of the Advance Party, because we certainly believe this is the best solution and the least conflict-making line in the long term for Finnmark. The party of progress is fundamentally in disagreement with the common policies of the other parties, also because the current common policies may be uncomfortable for the sake of co-operation, even because special treatment often has a stigmatizing effect. I am convinced that the vast majority of the group in Norway is not asking for special treatment, as the authorities' policies misinterpreted. There is reason to argue that the special treatment – through its own co-operation, the Sameting, its own samian flag, its own Sami national day, its own Sami national song and its indigenous status – has been pushed forward by marginal Sami groupings, without the particular support of the most common. It is therefore high time to change policy in this area. I want to end my article on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e800	I just want to sign out a couple of questions that were raised. Yes, we continue to work on changes in the electoral system. We're going to use the rules of the ILO Convention and will consult the Conspiracy on important things in the process, and have a discussion. There are some issues that I also think in this area are actually of national importance, among other things. the principles governing what constitutes a parliament and that it is therefore right that the legislation on the electoral system be finally laid down by the Stortinget. The second thing I want to say is, yes, we're working on the replacement schemes. I would like to remind you that one of the problems that has arisen is that the Justice Committee last time – with reference to the Compensation Fund, the Same People's Fund – wrote comments in connection with the treatment of the cheapness allowance because of that. The fund was considered to have also been compensated for the individual needs in relation to some individual matters. This means that it is not least important that we make sure that the Storting gets a broad discussion about the principles of compensation in relation to the cost-benefit ratio. We have several things that concern this. This is about the question of the war children, which Stortinget has dealt with several times. It concerns the forced sterilisation of tattoos. These are tattoos that have been subjected to other types of assault, and those that have lost school during World War II. Therefore, the Government has an ambition to come back with a statement of principle about this, if not for too long, with concrete instructions on how to possibly proceed. It's important, I think, that we don't take each case separately, but that we see things that obviously have some common challenges in common, in a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e809	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e826	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e843	We have now come to a number of proposals that have been submitted from the Odelsting meeting on 23 April this year. It is not natural, nor practice, to start a new debate. I refer you to the debate that was in Odelstinget. Equally full, there is reason to point to one aspect, and that in these proposals, the Storting asks the Government to submit various proposals by 1 June 2004. Since it is shortly until 1 June, I think it is worth recalling that the Committee's position was given on 2 April, and that it happened after a previous case, so that the Government has been familiar with both the Committee's position on this matter and its assumptions for a relatively long time. So it's not like the Storting today instructs the Government to come back with suggestions in 14 days or so. Therefore, allow me to refer briefly to what is the background to these proposals. The majority of the municipal committee of Stortinget, the members of the Workers' Party, the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, point out that: «these batches took the initiative in the autumn of 2003 and in the new year 2004 to ensure the thorough preparation of any action in the labour market area in order to avoid any negative impact on the extension of the EEA Agreement». Further reference was made to their comments at the Innst. S. No 149 for 2003-2004 on the need to implement the necessary legislative and regulatory changes from 1 May 2004 in order to prevent social dumping. The majority noted that the government had not, however, started the necessary legal work in time. The majority said that it was thought that this was very unfortunate. It was therefore found necessary to give the Government a deadline of 1 June 2004 to promote a new case for the Stortinget with the relevant legislative changes. The background was that it was thought that there would be a safer treatment than if the Committee, without prior consideration by the Government, had carried out the legislative work. This is the background to these proposals. It is therefore entirely right to ask the Government to come back on 1 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e859	I must also be allowed to refer to my intervention in the same debate. I would like to stress that from 2 April we have known that there has been a majority behind these proposals. I still think that two months of preparation to make such changes is short of time. That means we're going to break all the usual routines and all the common instructions that exist, to present the bill to the Stortinget. But the Stortinget was also informed at the time that there would be proposals that had not been consulted, and that all those affected by it had not been given a thorough briefing or had been given the opportunity to express their views. But you've done that with the open eyes of the Storting. Then I expect that, when the proposals come to Stortinget, you might take time to hear a little bit about the consequences of some of these proposals. There are several proposals that I don't think are problematic, but some of them I think you should have a round on – how practical is it to implement it that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e866	With regard to the reality of the proposals, we had the opportunity to discuss it earlier. We will probably also have the opportunity to discuss it when the Government's proposal comes. However, in the light of the input of the Council of State, it must be allowed to say that the background to the time pressure here is not a lack of knowledge about the need for this type of action, but there have been different policy assessments. The government has not wanted to follow up the clear wishes expressed on several occasions by the majority of the Storting Municipal Committee. So when the matter had not been given the preparation that one must expect, the committee felt the need for the government to come back. It should have been started from 1 May. It was not possible because of the government's lack of preparation. I assume we're getting a real foundation until 1 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e873	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e890	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2776]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e907	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2776]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e924	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2776]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e941	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2776]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e958	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2776]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e975	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2777]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e993	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2777]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1010	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2777]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1027	I feel the need to pay particular attention to the proposal in question. 13, although I would have liked to have said something about all the suggestions. As the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen and also the Council of State were in, this is an area that is developing. A lot has happened in a short time, and there is a lot of information that the agency providing services will be a very special challenge for Norwegian pay and working conditions. I want to show that the Council of State itself is now sending around an article printed in several newspapers, the latest in the Jærbladet on 10 May, where it announces that it will periodically assess the need for general action in the light of developments after the extension. It focuses on the risk of pressure on pay and working conditions when enterprises from new EU countries are given short-term tenure stops and bring their own workers here. It's part of her article. So she says it's a special challenge, and she wants to follow developments herself. On the basis of what I think the Stortinget can today be the leader was – the leader was in relation to the information that has appeared several times in the media, about the company that is now establishing itself outside our country to offer services here, and the leader was in relation to asking the Government to submit proposals for a law house. When the government proposal comes, it is possible to discuss whether or not to put it into action. So if you're making such a secret now, you're going to be a leader. I thought it was very sad if only the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party were behind that particular proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1034	We're working on a proposition for the Storting based on a request from a majority of the Storing and signals from the previous treatment. If we find ourselves in a situation where we are required in 14 days to submit complete regulations on the basis that the majority constellations change here in the hall, I think the Stortinge should think that they should set different deadlines. It's technically impossible for a government to do. In 14 days, we have gone a long way in presenting a comprehensive bill drawn up in two months, and at the same time breaking any instructions available for consultation with the parties. It will be very difficult for a government to deal with it, and practically impossible to implement in such a short time, if this changes. I hope the Stortinge also respect that. They're people, the people who work in the departments, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1041	Compared to this EU enlargement, the size of the population is in a special situation because it has been decided for a long time that a majority want more measures than the government initially provided. I note that the Council of State itself sends out articles in which it announces — and in this way tries to create security — that it will carry out an ongoing assessment of the need for action beyond what has been seen so far. I also hope that she does not add to the suggestions that have been discussed in connection with Ot.prp. No 44 for 2003-2004, but that she actually takes them into her assessment and is aware that she, both in relation to the proposal in question. 13, and on the second point, in fact, will have the possibility of being offensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1046	Then it seems that it is left as a request. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2777]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1065	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2777]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1082	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2777]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1098	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1107	We are now dealing with this matter for the third time. It should have been unnecessary, but the Council of State, Solberg, is not going to get caught for that reason. We're getting the shot at the target, the State Council of the Davøy, who is now arriving at the hall. Let me make it clear that this matter is about changing the rates of living under the debt regime to 85 pst. of the minimum pension. Today's rates are regulated on the basis of the basic amount of population protection and are 75 pst. of the minimum pension. The case was brought before the Court on 3 December 2002 and 11 November 2003, where the Labour Party, the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party stated that: ‘no debtor should have less to live on than about 85 pst. of the minimum pension. This should be incorporated into future indicative rates by the Ministry’. Instead of following up on this, a circular was sent out in June 2003 with indicative rates corresponding to approx. 75 pst. of the minimum pension. The Ministry has chosen to maintain the low rate and has justified the fact that a sobering standard of living under the debt regime is essential, including: for the public to accept the scheme. I actually think the public understands that living for 85 pst. of minimum pension is no life in luxury, but just an absolute sober life. It is difficult for me to understand that an increase of 650 kroner for lonely and approx. 1 700 kroner for couples may impair the legitimacy of this scheme. I don't think so many people find it attractive to be in a debt victim situation. The government boasts in every respect that they have invested in the fight against poverty, but why won't the government help make life a little easier for those who want to settle? I cannot fail to remind the Council of State that rationalisation and redundancies lead to an increase in unemployment, and the loss of income affects the individual and is, to the most extent, a contributing cause of people becoming victims of debt. The government should take a lot more seriously. This arrangement is intended to help people in a period of life when the economic situation has become difficult, even hopeless. With this arrangement, debtors may be helped to discharge their obligations. There are people who want to make up for themselves we are talking about here, and it must be our responsibility to help them. That is why I am pleased that today too, for the third time, it is a majority who support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1127	In Document No: 8:37, from the staging representatives of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken and May Hansen, it is proposed to increase the indicative rates of living of persons under the debt regime so that no debtor gets less than 85 pst. of the minimum pension to live on. The Government Parties will strongly advise against this proposed amendment. The balance between the debtor's and creditors' interests, on which the entire Debt Scheme Institution is based, will be distorted by this. The distortion applies both to the distribution of the debtor's income by a specific debt arrangement and to the right of a much larger group to claim a debt arrangement. We are concerned about the increased burden on depositors in this proposal, and that loans to vulnerable groups can be more expensive, or that loans will not be offered at all. It is important to consider the implications of the proposal when making political decisions. If you want to weaken the Debt Scheme Institution, that's exactly what this proposal achieves. The main idea of the 1992 Law on Debt Regulations is, according to the Graver Committee, that ‘people have to pay their debts’, but there must still be an emergency valve for those who have ended up in a disaster they will never have the opportunity to get out of it on their own. If you need help, the debtor must find himself in ‘a very sober standard of living’ and ‘adapt the standard of living to a minimum level’ during the period of the debt regime. If you survive the period of the arrangement, all non-pension liabilities will be extinguished. It must in itself be satisfactory for someone who has not been able to service his debt. That's the idea that government parties are holding on to. As politicians, we should be concerned that the Debt Scheme Institute should retain its legitimacy, in society, towards the creditors, but also towards other debtors who do their utmost to pay their obligations. By increasing living rates, we can get a situation where those who pay their loans get higher interest rates and thus contribute to the cost of those who get debt. The living rates are regulated according to the basic amount of the public interest, which has provided more than a compensation for price increases. Therefore, we believe that it would be very unfortunate to make such a marked leveling of the rates of living proposed. A reintroduction of the 85 p.m. rate will lead to maximum normal consumption of households under the debt regime, and in some cases more than that. It is not in line with the previous leaders given by Stortinget. The proposal states: «A change in the rates would hardly affect the number of debt instruments». That's not right. The changes would much rather lead to a significant increase in the number of persons eligible for the debt regime. It is surprising to me that the Progress Party goes into two stages with SV in this case. When the scheme was introduced in 1992, the representative Carl I. Hagen said the following: ‘I think it is absolutely essential for the understanding of Norwegian society that a system should not be set up to encourage its exploitation. So it must not be too favorable. It must not be too easy to get under the scheme, and if you come under it, it must not be too good, for then there will be too many applicants.» This is the opposite of what the Progress Party believes today. When the parties to the government oppose the proposal, it is mainly because it weakens the debt regime. This is an arrangement we want to maintain and retain the legitimacy to. A reintroduction of the 85 p.m. rate is unfortunate and could jeopardize respect for the Debt Scheme Act, by making the standard of living under the scheme too high in relation to many households who despite efforts pay their debts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1155	In my previous life, before I came within these protective walls, I worked for a number of years, starting in 1992, as a public-sector indebted adviser. That is, I had my job in the social office. I had an average of 100 victims of debt in a year, some of them self-inflicted, but some of them had found themselves in a situation where they couldn't handle their financial obligations. And I'm mildly provoked. In fact, I know far inside the stomach right now that the post that came from the representative, Afghan Rafiq, hit where I would rather not. I am provoked when I read the comments of the government parties, and perhaps the most provoked when I read the letter from the council. I think it's high time someone each took a walk into real life and saw what it was like out there. I'm not a witness of truth, but after working with victims of debt for five years, I actually think I have a certain understanding of how they feel. As one of my orders, I also had it to go on a home visit to a part of the victims of the debt, to see that they did not live above their ability, or lived too well. I can assure the President that I have seen the poverty, poverty and hopelessness of more than one home – home furnished with pulleys for chairs and pallets as a table. Maybe there's a lack of competence, and it's clear that not everyone here has the experience that I have in this field. Or maybe there's a lack of empathy in some parties, what do I know? But it's not like you borrow money first, you don't pay, and then you get a debt arrangement. Very many of the victims have lost their jobs, lost their jobs, or lost their marriage, and there are psychological problems hereafter. Yes, every victim has his own story. But every single victim of debt also deserves respect. They've struggled, they've fought, and finally they've succeeded in getting a debt arrangement. I have to add that not everyone gets a debt arrangement, and some, actually quite a lot, give up along the way. In my years as a debt counsellor, I experienced three adults who killed themselves during the process, and four youths with parents who were under the scheme, were unable to live anymore. Maybe this had happened anyway – I shouldn't wonder about it – but it's still indicative of how tough it is to be a debt victim. And all tough parties may be for children and young people who grow up in homes where you live from five to seven years under a debt arrangement, and where all the extra expenses have to be charged to the reputable, and then you get to hope that the creditors agree to get a little less money that month, whether it's confirmation or burial to be covered. We all know how hard it is always to say no to children and young people who are going to something. For some people it actually wasn't going to last. When the government parties see it as a problem that there is a cause for normal consumption, I have to ask what they mean by that. If the washing machine smokes into a debt victim, or if the victims receive large medical bills, they cannot borrow, they have broken the debt regime. They have no money in reserve, as most of us have. They also have no opportunity to get an extra job, because the money from the extra job should be provided to the creditor. It is easy to say that you have to live easily and sparingly, but I know that most people who come under the debt regime have lived in this way for many years before they get a debt arrangement. They have sold all valuables away to serve their creditors. Then they undertake to continue living like this for another five years in order for the creditor to get some of his claims. I don't think anyone's applying for a debt arrangement if they're not absolutely forced to do it. And that an increase of 650 kroner for lonely and 1700 kroner for couples would help create resistance to the Debt Order Institute, I don't see as an immediate danger. As for the government parties, they say that there can be a more restrictive line from the creditors and the courts, I think these too are pure speculations. It has been the public debt for which most victims of debt have had the greatest difficulty negotiating a solution. Private creditors are often much more benevolent than both cashier and loan fund. Finally, there should no longer be any doubt in the Council of State that there is a majority of the Stortinget who want the victims of the debt to have 85 pst. of the minimum pension to live on. It's about dignity, it's about hope and it's about quality of life. This should be done by the Storting and the Government to provide the victims of the debt in Norway, so that they can actually start a new life after the end of the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1178	Today we are dealing with Document No. 8:37 p.m. for 2003-2004, a proposal by Mr Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken and I signed that the rates of living of persons under the debt regime should be set at 85 p.m. of the minimum pension. I will clarify that, because that is the third time we are dealing with this proposal in this Chamber. I would also like to say, as the previous speaker has said, that we seem to be living in two different worlds when you hear the representative of Afghan Rafiq. I hope that Representative Afshan Rafiq can clarify what she meant with pensioners in her post. I didn't understand what she meant. The Ministry of Children and Family prepares annual indicative rates for the cost of living of persons under the debt regime. Until 1998, the rates amounted to an amount equal to 85 pst. of the minimum pension. Today the rates are 75 pst. of the minimum pension. As Stortinget dealt with the Debt Regulations Act, Innst. O. No 15 for 2002-2003 and Innst. O. No 7 for 2003-2004, the majority in the Committee agreed that the rates should not be lower than 85 pst. of the minimum pension. However, on 30 June 2003, the Ministry of Children and Family sent out a circular with guidance rates for living where the rates were not adjusted according to the leading figures of the majority population. The majority therefore repeated their observation at the Innst. No 7 for 2003-2004. And here the majority says – which others have also been involved in, but I think it's important to retake it: ‘The majority will point out that the indicative rates are below the recommended majority of the Stortinget and therefore the Government has not followed up the wishes of the majority of the population.’ Despite the clear leadership of two deliberations, there was another rematch in the budget position of the autumn. Therefore, today for the third time, the Storting must state that the 85 pst indicative rate should be reintroduced. I believe that respect for political decisions in this Chamber is not present on this matter by the Council of State. The Ministry has pointed out that the implementation of the 85 pst. rate would exceed the rates for similar benefits, for example: social assistance. But the debt regime has never been meant to be a benefit in the same way as social assistance. Persons with a debt regime must live up to these conditions for many years, and the purpose of the scheme is to have the opportunity to get on their feet financially. A report from the State Institute for Consumer Research, SIFO, shows that when debt regimes are abolished, it is mainly because those who owe money are unable to pay their payments to the creditor. The report states that SIFO’s findings can be interpreted as an expression of the excessive financial situation of households. Although the rates of the State are set to 85 pst. for minimum pensions, there is no reason to believe that living under the debt regime would be attractive, but the change could contribute to the success of more people. There is a serious increase in the number of open debt negotiations. From January 2003 to January 2004, we had an increase of 40 pst. Therefore, it is of social importance to take measures that make it most likely that new debt regimes will succeed. In its letter of 19 March 2004, the Council of Stasraad claims that an increase to 85 pst. the minimum pension would jeopardise respect for the indebtedness regime. This cannot be taken seriously by the Council of State. What about the families of children living with this pressure over a long period of time? We have, on several occasions in this committee and in this great hall, been concerned with children living below the poverty line. It's our responsibility. Living under debt regimes is a heavy burden on life and family life over several years. What consequences this could have was, I guess, the previous speech was very clear. We are now seeing a formidable increase in numbers, and this proposal, which is now being promoted for the third time, is helping to make the living situation of those who have come into this difficult situation a little better. It can't be the opinion of the Council of State that this gives such good conditions that people think it's OK to live with this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1202	I explained in the budget proposal last year why we did not find ourselves able to increase the rates of living in debt settlement cases. As the committee had no comments on this in the budget position, I understood it so that my argument was accepted, and I therefore understood the matter as clarified and concluded. The indicative rates of living are a very important element of the Debt Schemes Act. If they are too low, many will obviously have problems implementing the debt regime. If they are too high, the law of the debt regime can be seen as unfair and simultaneously stigmatising those who come under the law. In addition, the losses of creditors will be greater than necessary. It is a fundamental principle of the Debt Scheme Act that life expectancy must be such as to allow for only a simple, yet sound level of consumption. I would advise against raising the rate of living to 85 pst. of the minimum pension. It is not because I do not enjoy the financial life of the debtors under the debt regime. The point, in my opinion, is that today's rates are already fully sound enough to ensure this. In order to understand what the matter is, we need to look at the economic realities. The rates used today shall cover all consumption, including electricity, but not rent. If we start with a couple without children, reintroduction of the 85 pst rate will result in an increase of more than NOK 20 000 per year. years. So this is not a negligible adjustment. I believe that this cannot be said to be either a sober or a simple level of consumption, which is most evident if we compare with the so-called standard budget produced by SIFO. According to this budget, normal consumption for a couple in 2004 will be DKK 10,830 per year. month plus stream. The 85 pst rate will be significantly higher than the standard budget. The budget is drawn up on the basis of accurate price measurements of goods of general quality and reflects, according to SIFO researchers, general consumption costs, or consumption acceptable to most people, as expressed in the report of the budget. It is also a long-term budget, which is to be applied far beyond a normal period of indebtedness, and therefore allows for the purchase of expensive and durable consumer goods. I have also noticed that only the holiday part of the standard budget is NOK 1700 per person. month, or in total NOK 102000 during a five-year period of indebtedness. So the 85 pst is going to be above this. The 85 p.m. rate will thus undoubtedly lead to the maintenance and above of full ordinary consumption of households under a debt arrangement. I am therefore asking whether the Storting really believes that under the debt regime they should have a consumption level beyond the normal level. Should we now disregard the principle that the person to be granted a debt regime must adapt to a sobering standard of living? At the time of the introduction of the Debt Regulations Act, both the Progress Party and the Labour Party agreed during the negotiations on the importance that debtors subject to the law should have a sober standard of living. Carl I. Hagen said, among other things: that it must not be too easy to get under the scheme, and if you come under it, it must not be too good. The Labour Party pointed out that the Debt Code must be perceived as fair by all those who are struggling to get the ends to meet. I would also like to mention the opinions of a unanimous finance committee in the wording of the law that: «persons subject to the law must adapt their standard of living, including standard of living, to a level which does not make the granting of a debt arrangement consistent with others». I find it very difficult to understand why this should no longer apply. And what about those who don't have enough income to make them enjoy increasing rates? 40 pst. by those who have a debt arrangement today will not benefit from this increase because they are in any case non-payable. The proposal that no one should have less than 85 pst. therefore, the minimum pension cannot be met, regardless of whether the rate is increased as proposed, because the increase does not benefit the weakest. So they're already indebted. The introduction of the 85 pst rate will also provide significant results in the area of contributions. Indebtedness rates are used to assess whether the contributors have the ability to pay contributions. It will be difficult to explain that, for example: may have almost NOK 20 000 for annual holiday activities, but at the same time no ability to pay for the entertainment of their children. These are just examples of the nature of the impact of new indicative rates. I'm afraid the grips of the majority of the Storting are about to take, can help put the system in trouble.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1233	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1236	The working party stands for what we stood for when this was dealt with earlier. The thing doesn't really get much better if we do a lot of math. This is based on calculations made in dealing with these cases two times earlier. I listened to the post from Afghan Rafiq, and then I felt a little fuss from the past. I'm aware that the Right stands for what was said, but I thought the Christian People's Party would help those who will actually settle for it – because that's what it's about. That's why they're in this arrangement. They'll try to make up their own. I think the concern for the individual and the desperate situation they come into must be more important than that we should now ride our horses. So it has already been adopted in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1243	My concern here is that SIFO's standard budget is made on the basis of the current cost level, and there is also a consumption where both holiday trips and other things are in the picture. That's good. What the Storting adds up to, is going significantly beyond this. Take a few examples: A single person today will be able to make 245,000 dollars per year. years at the same time as you don't want to be able to serve your debt. A married couple with a couple of children can earn up to NOK 420 000 gross and in fact are unable to serve their debt. We all know here that there are many who have a lower income than that, and who are in debt that they have to be able to serve. In the case of the minimum pension and the 85 p.m. rate, I have to say that minimum pensioners also have to cover housing costs under this framework, while in the case of debt victims, of course, they have to cover housing costs as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1248	I hear what the council says. So I hear she's not suggesting we raise the rate to 85 pst. of the minimum pension as an indicative rate. But then there is something I have not understood. I thought we had parliamentary guidelines to follow. This has been adopted at Stortinget, not only once, but actually twice before. And then it's very close for me to reason that even if we decide this today, we have no guarantee that this will be done. So I'm going to ask the Council of State now: do we have a guarantee that the third time we adopt this in Stortinget will actually implement it, and that a circular will go out immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1254	The answer to the latter is that of course the department will follow up if it is adopted in the Stortingen today. But I have to be allowed to say about the procedure that has now been in Stortinget: it is correct that we made an index regulation without an indicative 85 pst rate last year, because the department thought the consequence of this adjustment should come to light. We presented this to the Stortinget in connection with St.prp. No 1st of last year. The Financial Committee chose not to deal with this matter at the time, but to forward it to the Scientific Committee during the budgetary procedure. The Trade Union Committee asked the Council of State questions in connection with the examination of St.prp. No 1st of last year. We gave a supplementary reply from the department on why we were not supposed to go to the 85 p.m. rate. No decision was taken in the case concerning the budget. That is why I was actually in good faith and believed that the Storting had accepted this and not wanted to make that decision, which the Finance Committee had not asked them to do at the time, in other words during the budget debate last year, but they said the matter should be dealt with by the Trade Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1261	I'm getting quite provoked. It is quite clear that the Committee made a mistake when the budget recombination took place. But this has been adopted twice, and it provokes me that the Council of State does not follow up decisions taken in this Chamber. I'm not going to go into all of the other issues that apply, but I hope we get a clarification that this will be taken into account when we now decide this for the third time. I am also a little surprised that the Council of State is not more concerned that we have over 100 000 unemployed and that we have many children living below the poverty line. She says in her letter that debtors should live easily and sparingly under the debt regime – and that is clear, they do. An increase to this effect could also be seen as unreasonable given that the creditors are financing the consumption. I feel that the councils here are more concerned with the creditors than with families who for a long time live under difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1273	When you draw out the monthly numbers, it might seem like a slight increase. But for the same reason, we're talking about almost NOK 40,000 in a five-year period of indebtedness, and for a couple it's going to be over NOK 100 000, so it's pretty substantial. It's possible the committee made a mistake, but it can't possibly be my fault if the committee made a mistake. When the Financial Committee first examined the matter, they stated in a majority opinion that no debtor should have less to live on than about 85 pst. of the minimum pension, etc. So the finance committee pointed out this position, sent the matter over to the family, culture and administration committee, and said that this relationship will be dealt with in the context of the committee's position on this proposition, that is, St. prp. No 1st@item: No decision was taken at all, despite the fact that the Council of State replied to a letter just in this case. And then I had to believe that the matter had actually been concluded by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1285	SIFO's standard rates were also the focus when we debated contribution rates in this room. Then it was found that a number of expenses are not below SIFO's rates, such as money for holidays, leisure, etc. For most people, it's a natural part of everyday life to be able to spend money on such things. We recognize that this is a mess with the Council of State. The Council of State claims that this is a defensive scheme, and by being the nukes people should be able to live on it. But with the strong contributions that have come from this pulpit, wouldn't it be natural for the Council of State to join the plural? Can the Council of States state that of course it will follow what the majority here has expressed, instead of standing here and arguing against the expressed wish of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1292	I understand, of course, that this is desirable. On the other hand, as the Council of State, I feel a strong responsibility that we should not have a debt arrangement that is such that people with very common incomes see that it is possible to have a debt arrangement, whether one alone has well over NOK 200,000 and a married couple well over NOK 400,000 in gross income, while others are struggling with debt and debt and are meeting their obligations. I'll ask the Storting to believe that I have a real concern here. The standard SIFO rates are high enough to live well in this country. At least I think so. But you say here that you should be able to go significantly beyond this. It's a concern I have. We must not get into the situation where a debt regime might get too good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1297	I have a great sense of government councils who are responsible. Today it is decided that we will get an 85 pst. rate. That's the decision. Then I have to ask the Council of State to come to this pulpit and tell her to do it. We need to clarify that right over here. So there are some people who come in such a situation that was well described by Karin S. Woldseth. So this is not a permanent arrangement, but a arrangement for a period of life. Because it is that ordinary people can occasionally get a ‘threat’ and get into a life situation that requires them to reach out and ask for help. That's who we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1304	As I replied to the line from Karin S. Woldseth instead, the department will of course do this. We're going to do this as fast as possible. The new indicative rates can be applied from 1 July of this year – just so it is clear from me. So there's something I once again want to clarify. There may be a lot of numbers, but I think this is quite difficult – just listen to the following example: You can get a living rate under the debt regime – now I am talking about the new 85 pst. rate – which is 12,835 kroner per person. months. In addition, for example: could keep the cost of living for two children, amounting to NOK 3 900. Support for child care expenditure will be maintained, for example: NOK 2000 for kindergarten for these two children, and you will also be able to keep up to NOK 8 500 in support of living expenses. A total of NOK 27 235 – this can be obtained in the new debt regime with the 85 p.m. rate. I think it's pretty loud. But the Storting wants it like this – and gets it like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1311	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1316	It's a pleasure that we finally get this decision in place, but it's legal late, because it's been a year and a half since Storting's first treatment. I think this debate is quite outrageous in two ways. One is the government party's argument, and the other is the Council of State's explanation of what has really happened in this case. So it's the case that crystal-clear leadership from the Financial Committee has been put in the form of a note twice without the Council of State having complied with this. One has to wonder how big letters Stortinget has to talk to to make the Minister of Children and Family understand. There has been no misunderstanding in this matter. Nevertheless, it has been decided to train the decision that has been taken, the clear leadership that had been put in the form of a comment. I think it is a little honour for the Minister to try to transfer responsibility for it to the Financial Committee in this debate. Then I also think that Rafiq's posts were an example of a fundamental lack of not understanding, so at least the ability to take into account and understand the situation of many of those who have it tough in our country, i.e. the situation of the debt victims. This fear that people who are already among those who have the most difficulty, as well as getting it too easy, seems to me to be quite special. This whole argument that it is possible to speculate in the debt regime, to speculate about becoming a debt victim and thus to escape its obligations, is – with respect to reporting – nonsense. There is no one in this country or anywhere else who wants to be a debt victim. A debt regime shall not be a penalty. It's going to be an instrument to give people the opportunity to start again and come back to society. Then it's in the interests of society that we make sure that people are able to complete the debt regime, and it's too few that do today. The research clearly shows that it is the private economy that puts an end to those who are unable to complete. The Council of State may feel that the scheme is too favourable, but in that case it is too favourable today. It is quite absurd that a difference of NOK 600 per month makes a scheme work well or if the scheme is too favourable. When the representative, Afshan Rafiq, is concerned that the banks are going to stop borrowing money, or even more wonderfully, that interest rates are going to rise because we are going to adopt this today, I think it's special. I think the stock exchanges are already faltering in view of the decision we are going to take today. This just doesn't matter. I am particularly surprised that the friends of the neighbourly love in the Christian People's Party are buying such a bad argument in such a bad case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1331	Before the Council of State was on the pulpit the last time, my claim is that we are approaching dangerous is the parliamentary situation. So it's not up to a government council to stand up and refuse to accept a decision that will be made in the Storting. It is true that this has not been decided in the past. But I have to say that the government is undermining the observation institute relatively strongly. This note has been valid from Input. O. No 15 for 2002-2003, which was adopted at Stortinget in the autumn of 2002, and there was no doubt as to what the majority of the Committee on Finance meant at that time. It was also repeated by the same majority of the Finance Committee at a later stage, and yet the Government has not found it appropriate to follow up on the ambition known to a majority in this Chamber. So I have to say that I'm a little shocked by the approach of the Council of State to this. You'd almost think you'd fear this decision so much, because now people will become mere speculators to be allowed to be victims of debt. So there's no arrangement that any of us would really like to get under. There are also strict rules on how to get under this scheme. Once you've come into such a situation, the whole purpose is to be able to maintain a satisfactory quality of life while working in a tidy way to get out of it in a tidy way. I think it's going to be a little special when you read the letter from the Council of State to the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and Administration, where you can make yourself write: ‘The introduction of the 85 % rate would thus lead to maximum normal consumption of households under the debt regime’. I wonder if the Council of State has been in contact with people living at this level, in everyday life, and heard a little about how difficult it is, about how demanding it is to get the ends to jump when trying to clean up a difficult life situation at the same time. I think it's an unworthy debate to witness. I now expect and hope that this debate and the decision that the Stortinget now has to take because the Government has not been willing to follow up the majority remarks that have been repeated and repeated, is the final line for this, and that we now immediately see that the Government follows up the intention of the Stortinget for quite a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1344	I think I have to refer again to what the Finance Committee did the second time they commented on this matter. It was in the budget position last year, where reference was made to its previous comment and sent the matter to the family, cultural and administrative committee and said that they would deal with this matter in the context of the budget – which I realized they did then by not taking decisions in the matter. That's the situation. But as for the follow-up of the case, you will also be able to see from the record that already after Karin S. Woldseth's posts I replied confirm that the department is following up, and I have responded to that one time later. And of course we're going to do that. I haven't used the word "speculation". I haven't taken it in my mouth. But Hagen used it once earlier and said it was important that we didn't have a system that would make you wonder. I actually don't intend to use that word, nor do I think anyone is going to do it. But I'm worried about the system as such. If it happens that the whole scheme might be in danger, everyone will lose weight. Now we're going to hope that that doesn't happen. But I actually have a concern, and I believe, as the Council of State, that it must be legitimate to be allowed to express or highlight it from this pulpit. This is also based on the department's settings and letters, which the Council of State has not only taken up in its head, but which we have also considered professionally. So this isn't such a very, very simple thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1353	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2778]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1361	Before we start voting, the President will make a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1366	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme be amended for the next week, so that the minutes of the Odelstinget meeting will be held on Tuesday 18 May at the end of the Annual General Meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1375	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 2-4, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on the proposals No. 5 and 6, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Centre Party, The President will first vote on the proposal No. 5 and 6 from the Center Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to adjust the tax base deduction in the action zone in the context of the 2005 State budget.’.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks for a price adjustment of the Finnmark supplement in the amount of the child’s pension in relation to today’s krone value.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1407	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to reintroduce the special outreach grant for secondary school students in the action zone.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to reintroduce the system of pay supplements to teachers in the action zone in the context of the State budget for 2005.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the State budget for 2005, to reintroduce the system of professional and pedagogical reinforcement measures in the action zone.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1454	The President assumes that the Right Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1478	In the case of III, a correction must be made. The text of the proposal for a decision under III has become incorrect in the event of a so-called incurrency. The correct wording can be found in the option on page 13, second column, third paragraph, which is the reason for the vote. So III is replaced by the following: In the context of the 2005 State Budget, the Government is asking for the extension of the study loan write-down scheme in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, so that the maximum amount of depreciation is increased from SEK 16 500 per year. years to NOK 25,000 per year. years. The President expects the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1497	There is still to be a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Christian People's Party. Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1502	After the fall of III, on behalf of the Workers' Party, and I also assume the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, I would advise these parties' representatives to vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1507	We would have done that, but that's okay. There is then a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the context of the 2005 State budget, to assess an extension of the study loan write-down scheme in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, so as to increase the maximum write-down amount from SEK 16 500 per year. years to NOK 25,000 per year. years.’» The President expects that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will now support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1543	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 April 2004: ‘The Government is asked by the Government of the State Budget for 2005 to report on the experience gained from the use of Norwegian welfare benefits resulting from the EEA enlargement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1559	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 April 2004: «By 1 June 2004, the Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to extend the enforcement powers of the Labour Inspectorate for the enforcement of rules laid down in public tariff agreements and to strengthen monitoring of compliance with the rules on working time and other relevant conditions of the Working Environment Act, as well as housing and set-aside standards, in connection with the posting of workers.» The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, and the President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1579	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 April 2004: ‘By 1 June 2004, the Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals extending the reporting obligation to the Central Tax Office for Foreign Affairs to all foreign workers in all sectors. It is assumed that exemptions from the reporting obligation may be granted.’;» The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, and the President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1596	The president was wrong. There must be 58 votes in favour of the motion by the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party and 40 votes against. The proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1603	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 April 2004: «By 1 June 2004, the Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a legal basis allowing the employer to make sure that all employees have an identity card, to require employees to display identity cards on request from public authorities, and to impose on the employer, the main contractor or the contractor who has a contract with a builder to be able to provide crew lists and records of wages and salaries.» The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, and the President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1623	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 April 2004: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit legislative proposals before 1 June 2004 to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate assumes responsibility for overseeing compliance with the conditions for the granting of work permits granted by the UDI.’ The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, and the President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1644	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 April 2004: ‘By 1 June 2004, the Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to extend the powers of the Labour Inspectorate and other relevant supervisory authorities to control and enforce sanctions against breached establishments, in order to comply with the legislation, including the conditions of pay, working time and housing.’ The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, and the President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1664	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 April 2004: ‘By 1 June 2004, the Government asks for a proposal for a law ensuring that establishments using workers without a work permit are notified and that they are subject to significant fines and the withdrawal of profits.’ The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, and the President assumes that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1684	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 April 2004: «By 1 June 2004, the Government asks the Government to submit proposals for legislation which, in the case of service supplies, tenders and sub-contracting prices, confer on employees the right of access to pay and working conditions provided for by law and contract of employment on the part of subcontractors, but which does not include rights of access to personal relationships or the collective agreement of other trade unions.» [[(see section 4.4). § 55 C)]] The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, and the President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1704	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 April 2004: ‘By 1 June 2004, the Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a law providing trustees with the right to debate in connection with lease and sub-contracting decisions.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, and the President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1725	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 April 2004: ‘By 1 June 2004, the Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to ensure that the main contractor, or the contractor who has a contract with the builder, is held liable for the payment of taxes and charges by subcontractors and complies with the applicable laws and regulations and that the builder’s responsibility for ensuring legal conditions in the construction site is intensified.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, and the President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1746	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 April 2004: ‘By 1 June 2004, the Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals for the approval, registration and control of agencies providing or hiring out labour in Norway.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, and the President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1767	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 April 2004: ‘The decision asks the Government by 1 June 2004 to submit proposals for the implementation of ILO Convention No. 94 in Norwegian legislation.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, and the President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1788	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 April 2004: ‘The Government is asking the Government to extend the regional protection agency scheme to several industries’.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal, and the President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1813	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-14.ana.ud2660e1832	There is no record.
