ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e48	I'm not going to add up to any debate. We took it earlier today in Stortinget, under case no. 3rd@item: inlistbox But there is one thing I want to clarify on the part of the Council of State, because I have a feeling that the Government does not reject the proposal that is under consideration and that is proposed in the attached minutes. In a letter to the Committee - I estimate that the date may be 27 April - the Council of State writes: "I don't see it as appropriate for the ministry to be the first instance in all matters that could be involved, for example, an element of foreign policy considerations. For example, this could relate to a wide range of visa issues and would require a significant upgrade of the ministry's work on individual matters. On the other hand, I see it as more appropriate for the Directorate to prepare a case and submit it to the Department for Assessment." My question is: is the proposal unclear as to what intentions we have with that? Because as one of the proposers, I have tried to point to the issues that we specifically want to deal with automatically by the Department and the Council of State. As I understand it, there are very few cases that have such a character that there is a danger to the security of the state, and that have such an impact on foreign policy issues - it might well be 10-20 cases per year. I see that the Council of State is trying to state that this involves several issues, so I would like to ask for advice from the Council of State: what do the proposers have to do to capture the individual issues that we want to point to, which are really a threat to the security of the state, and which can really have consequences for foreign policy issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e58	There are a wide range of issues that can be considered to relate to national security or foreign policy issues and that are assessed during such a process as not to have it. Because there are a number of issues that we're asking the police security service to assess. There's a background, that's the story of individuals -- to cancel or confirm their stories. In this context, questions may also arise as to whether this is a matter of national security or not. That is why it is far more than the cases that are finally dealt with, compared to the fact that we can instruct in them, which in a process at first instance is assessed in relation to foreign policy implications and issues of national security. If we were to be the first instance, it's a fact that relatively many things had to be screened -- you had to make that assessment, and in very many of these cases it would also be consulted whether you think this is a matter that you want to go into and instruct in or not, or whether you think there is a need to look at where the limit goes to do it. I can't say on the stand how to get this done, and that the law should look like this and so on. Our whole point is that when we can instruct on a matter, that means that the first round of proceedings is conducted by UDI, they come to us with a recommendation, and then we consider whether to instruct on the basis of that recommendation or not. It has something to do with what control points UDI has had in the first instance, e.g. whether there are other services, either from the outside or from the police, which have to point out aspects of individual cases which provide a basis for a more detailed assessment of them. There are relatively few issues where the attention comes primarily from the media discovering them, but we have had some. And on the basis of these, we have just created systems to secure ourselves against the issues that arise. I believe, therefore, that, in order to have the overview and control of issues related to foreign policy and the security of the state, there is no need to formally make the ministry the first instance reviewer, because we are instructing at first instance. However, it assumes that the UDI is a purely instructive body linked to the submission of the case, and the UDI acts as case handlers for the Department of that type of case. I am not sure if there had been any legal possibility other than that we had gone into all the cases of the first instance, to be sure that we had picked up all the issues relating to the security of the state and to foreign policy considerations, but it is clear that we are making independent assessments in cases where it has been notified by some other authorities that there may be problems. In the screening of all cases, we make independent assessments of whether there are grounds for using the paragraph on national security and foreign policy considerations, and whether or not we should see the decisions, review the proposed decisions. We would then like to have an independent procedure before the first instance. I fully agree that we're busy doing the same thing, but I don't think we can do it if we're going to move all the issues that might affect questions like this. as regards the national security, until the department carries out the procedure at first instance. But it is we who take the real decision in those cases, because it is we who instruct what the decision should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e73	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 521]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e89	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e98	The government is promoting in this odelstingsproposition proposals for changes to the Law on Social Security as part of achieving the objective of lower sick leave. The agreement on an inclusive working life was evaluated after the second quarter of 2003. According to paragraph 2(c) of the Agreement, the entire agreement will cease if the evaluation report shows that it is not possible to achieve the objectives set unless the Government and the social partners agree otherwise. Although the parties have acknowledged that the objective of reducing sick leave by 20 p.m. It is difficult to reach, it has been agreed to continue the agreement until 31 December 2005. This is done in the light of the significant scale of the agreement and its long-term success. The Government’s proposed amendments are based on the assumptions for the continuation of the contract of an inclusive working life, set out in a declaration dated 3 December 2003 by the parties to the agreement. The legislative changes impose stricter requirements on both employees, employers and doctors. I will briefly refer to the main points of the legislative changes proposed by the Government: For the employee, an activity requirement is introduced in order to qualify for sickness benefit. Inactivity beyond eight weeks shall be medically justified. The active health care system is targeted by assessing classified health care messages in which the employee can partially carry out his or her normal duties. The functional assessment and documentation of a doctor shall be available within eight weeks at the latest. The employee is given the obligation to help clarify the functioning. Doctors who do not comply with the new medical standards may lose the right to issue medical declarations. The legislative changes are supported by a unanimous committee. In addition, two minority proposals have been put forward, both of which deal with the organisation grant. I leave to the proposers themselves to justify their proposals. I also leave to the other parties to comment on their own comments and the reason for supporting the legislative proposals and the continuation of the IA agreement. The development of sick leave is very alarming. From the second quarter of 2001 to the second quarter of 2003, sick leave increased by 11.5 pst in Norway. That gives cause for concern. High sick leave is a problem for society and not least for individual workers. Despite the IA agreement and the 20 pst objective. In other words, less sick leave within the four-year period of the contract has greatly increased unemployment. New measures are therefore needed to reverse this trend. To achieve the objectives of the agreement by the end of 2005, sick leave must be reduced by 30 pst. The right fully agrees with the social partners and the Government that this is not realistic. Nevertheless, when the Right supports the Government’s and the parties’ desire to continue the agreement, it is because very many public and private jobs have become IA enterprises. This in itself leads to an additional focus on sick leave and working conditions in the company. Therefore, there is reason to hope that the IA agreement can lead to positive results if it has any further effect. The agreement on an inclusive working life depends on the government supporting the agreement. The government has done so, including through concrete instruments. However, there must never be any doubt that the main responsibility for reducing sick leave lies with the social partners. Proposals for legislative changes make more stringent demands on both employers, workers and doctors in a balanced manner. It is important to make all parties responsible for reducing sick leave. Most of us consider it a privilege to have the opportunity to use our abilities and resources. It helps to give us a meaningful life. For individuals as well as for society, it is essential that we facilitate the return of the most sick-patient population to work. Then we have to get away from the idea that either we're 100 pst. Fresh, or we're 100 pst. disease. It is therefore appropriate to introduce an activity requirement in order to qualify for sickness benefits. The sick person shall be tested in work-related activity as soon as possible, possibly with classified or active search messages. If we are to get this done, we are dependent on employers taking their share of the responsibility. It is therefore right that the employer's obligation to facilitate a diagnosis of employees who are not entirely in shape is reinforced. Exclusion can lead to penance. The doctors are given a significant responsibility to reduce sick leave. Printing a search message obligates. Therefore, doctors need to consider patients much more thoroughly than today before they print out a search report. If they do not follow up, it is a right decision to deprive them of the right to print out search messages. I record that the president of the Norwegian Medical Association has also stated that the doctors have not followed this up in a sufficiently good way. All in all, I believe that today's decision by the Storting to make stricter demands on all the players in the world of work and to have increased focus on the workplace is a long and important step in the right direction towards a more inclusive working life for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e146	More and more people are being pushed out of work because of illness. Fewer people with disabilities have room for work. More and more people receive sick pay, return or rehabilitation money, and many experience difficulties in getting back to work. To reverse these developments, an obligatory and whole-hearted teamwork is required between the sick person, the doctor and the employer. This reciprocity is emphasised in the renewed IA agreement, which underpins the changes in the laws we are dealing with today. The sick person should receive a closer follow-up from both the doctor and the employer. The employer must assume greater responsibility for organising work so that the sick person can return to work more quickly and the worker must follow up on the provision of treatment and organisation. By introducing activity requirements after eight weeks and giving the employer responsibility for following up and facilitating the sick person, we focus more on the importance of the workplace. However, the rule that inactivity beyond eight weeks should be justified on medical grounds should not be enforced in a way that creates guilt in workers who may need longer-term medical attention. And above all, it must not be interpreted in such a way that responsibility falls unilaterally on the employee. On Friday, 4 June, the Minister for Social Affairs said: "The worker himself must be open to be in activity despite being poor. If you don't, you can also lose the right to get sick pay." In my opinion, this is a misleading description of what the parties agreed to in the IA agreement. The rules should not be practised in such a way that the sick person must return to work no matter how sick they are, otherwise they will lose their sick pay. The agreement on an inclusive working life is our main means of preventing exclusion from the labour market. That's why we need a government that gives clear and unambiguous signals that "we believe in this." Unfortunately, the government's signals have not been ready. Just five months after the Government signed the renewed IA agreement, the new Chairman of the Court of Justice went out to News Eighth and characterised the agreement as 'voodoo' and expressed distrust for the means to reduce sick leave. When the Government thus cast doubt on the IA agreement, it sends a very unfortunate signal to the other parties to the agreement. There may be reason to ask if the Government really wants the IA agreement to succeed. When the sick leave problem is discussed, the Right spinal reflex is to address the threat of men's days - despite the fact that long-term absence is increasing, while short-term absence is actually falling somewhat. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is not appropriate to weaken the rights of workers in the sick pay scheme. We believe that we come further with cooperation than with threats and coercion. Therefore, we will actively support the IA agreement. We have a lot of examples that it works. Here is one: In Holmestrand the company Aven AS the sick leave went down by 40 pst. after only 10 months as an IA holding. The company's daily manager, Jan Kristiansen, says to the evening post on March 31st: "It's not enough just to sign an agreement." "The agreement must be deliberately followed up with concrete measures and conscious dialogue between those concerned." I feel that through that quote Jan Kristiansen also came with very good advice to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e178	The government proposes in the proposition we now have to deal with, some minor changes, among other things. to try to reduce sick leave. There is a certain degree of intimidation towards workers, which is a sensible approach, as well as an increased penalty for doctors who do not follow the new rules on notification. Perhaps the most extreme proposal in the proposition is the introduction of an activity requirement in order to qualify for sickness benefit. This must be fulfilled within eight weeks at the latest, as long as medical reasons are not clearly prejudicial. The proposition is, as it appears, a consequence of the discussions that have taken place between the social partners and the state in the context of the evaluation of the IA agreement. This is an agreement which, unfortunately, has proved to fail in absolutely all the areas where it was intended to have a positive effect. The IA agreement had three main pillars. It was to bring down the sick leave by 20 pst. by the end of 2005, increase the actual retirement age and, last but not least, increase the employment of people with disabilities. Not on any of these points have we seen a positive development. Sick leave continues to increase at risk, the real retirement age decreases, and the number of disabled persons employed also decreases. The time should be right to admit that the IA agreement does not seem to have the effect you wanted. When it is now seen that the organisation grant granted to enterprises in order to better facilitate workers with disabilities is to be given only to companies that have signed the IA agreement, this is also a warning. The progress party cannot accept this, because the only ones who will be punished in this respect are workers who work in companies where management has either not seen fit to earn, have had time, or have the opportunity to follow up an IA agreement. The Progress Party shall take account of the person in need of an organised job, prior to the requirement that a contract be signed. The Progress Party also wants to assess whether the amount of the organisation grant is ideal or whether it should actually be increased. The time is approaching for a much more thorough debate on how to achieve a significant reduction in sick leave, increase in the real retirement age and more employing people with disabilities. In this context, perhaps the most important instrument of all for investigation is somewhere in the state apparatus. This is about being able to capitalise on the skills of both the social security system, the social security system and the social services without the obstacles we see today. We need to be more effective in getting people who, for various reasons, are away from work, back to work. I recommend to the Minister of Social Affairs to put pressure on the work that is now being done, so that as soon as possible the changes needed to ensure the most effective follow-up of the individual, for the benefit of workers, employers and Norwegian taxpayers, can be dealt with and adopted as quickly as possible. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Progress Party alone, and what we are together with other parties about, and which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e191	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has drawn up the proposals he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e194	Friday, June 4 at 2.30 p.m. Half an hour in the morning, at the time of getting up, I heard an item in which the Minister of Social Affairs presented a new system of health insurance rights to be introduced, with a significant tightening, and where workers would come out much tighter than before. It was also said that whoever does not cooperate loses the right, even if you are bad. It was also about fines. It was at all a list of negative measures in the workplace to force more people into work. I must say, I stunned. I was wondering, what's the government going to do now? They can't possibly get any support for this. Then I discover, when I start to go into the matter more closely, that the Minister of Social Affairs is able to give such a description of something that the Social Committee has already dealt with, that I myself, who is a member of the Social Committee, cannot identify it. So SV has supported the agreement on an inclusive working life because we think it is appropriate, and that in many ways it is a right for workers to be able to get in touch with the labour market even when you are ill. Time and again, businesses start processes after relatively short absences, so that they do not have any jobs to return to. This means that the mechanism - if it goes beyond eight weeks without contact with the labour force - can simply lead to exclusion. This means - the Minister of Social Affairs would have been able to present this as - that it is in many ways a right for workers to be able to be guaranteed access to employment and contact with the employer, and that the employer has a duty to maintain that contact if no illness prevents it. But what we have of course supported is a long list that exemplifies diseases and conditions that make the employee not have this obligation. It doesn't mention the Social Minister with one word on the radio. On the contrary, she reinforces the impression that new burdens are being imposed on a group of people who already have enough to cope with. I think in many ways it's alarming. I think the impression was reinforced in the post from Beate Heieren Hundhammer. SV is concerned that we are now beginning to develop in general both in terms of the labour market, in terms of traineeships, and in terms of exclusion - with different mechanisms - which are extremely worrying. We have summarised the costs of people of working age falling outside the labour force for various reasons, to approx. 98.2 billion for 2003 - these are those who are sick, those who are rehabilitating, those who are on a day-to-day basis, those who have a disability pension and those who have social welfare benefits. The development we're facing is that all of these groups are increasing. All benefits are increasing and all groups benefit from new ones that fall out of the labour market. It's a development that's so alarming that we have to find the reasons for it. But the SV's clear impression is that instead of asking what can give the type of mechanism, which is alarming, you start at the crazy end, which is to blame those who are sick. In addition, it is said that fines should be applied to the employer and that doctors do a bad job. I think it's right to say that there are crooked vessels in all the camps. There are even sick people who should not have been. But the signal you're sending out is going to be completely wrong. I got reactions the same day from Mental Health, who asked, "What are you going to do about the Storting compared to what the Government is now adding up to?" I think it is amazing that the government does not see that on the way to solutions to include more, in order to motivate more and get more willing employers and more employees to keep that contact, you have to try to bring it along with the good. In this respect, the Social Minister's signal on 4 June was actually relatively disastrous, because it also removes the common understanding that it makes sense to take action to create an inclusive working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e205	Work is a major and important part of life. Work gives us a sense of mastering life, and it gives us a social arena. Increasingly, work also gives us identity. Loss of work, or getting sick, can lead to a sense of lack of mastery and quality of life. The Christian People's Party believes it's important that all people can participate in society based on your abilities and abilities. Since the IA agreement was concluded, there has been a strong agreement that the workplace is the most important area for the prevention of illness and the testing of functioning. Ot. pp. No 48, on changes in popular protection laws, underlines even more than the IA agreement that everyone has a responsibility to reduce sick leave: workers, employers and laymen. I just want to comment on a few points, as there is a big deal in the committee. According to point 4 of the Declaration of 3 December 2003 from the Parties on the continuation of the IA Agreement, the medical report shall be as early as possible in work-related activities and the inactivity beyond eight weeks shall be justified as medically justified. This is now also being legislated in popular peace. The Christian People's Party is pleased with this. According to the IA declaration, employers and employees have a joint responsibility to clarify functional aspects as early as possible and to draw up a follow-up plan within six weeks. According to today’s rules, the doctor should always take as a basis a functional assessment, according to the health report. Section 8-7, third paragraph. Although today's legal text also suggests that the doctor performs a functional assessment in relation to his or her work before the doctor signs a medical report to a person, this is now explicitly incorporated into the law. The doctor shall always assess, in the context of initial and subsequent sick messages, whether he or she may be at work or in work-related activity. Other health professionals should also be able to provide a functional assessment. The assessment must be based on the workplace and it is therefore proposed that employers should also be involved in the functional assessment. It is said to see if these measures will have any effect on sick leave. The results so far have not been good. Nevertheless, I believe that this work that the Government has seen in the works has been necessary in relation to attitudes to sickness and work. In the same way as with people with disabilities, one is too one-sidedly focused on symptoms and let it overshadow what the individual can do. One has done too little to understand the patient's function, to map the resources available to him or her, and to facilitate the use of one according to your abilities. Many who are currently out of work could perhaps be helpful if they had an interest in the clarity of work and the ability to rehabilitate them. Work can make us sick, but work can also make us healthier, at least if it is the right regulations that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e222	Ot. pp. No 48 for 2003-2004 is based on the continuation of the agreement on an inclusive working life. One has understood that what is stated in the Government’s proposition is under the agreement between these three parties. We think it's going to be wrong when the social minister went out last week and said that now we've got a new arrangement that means a significant tightening up, and that the non-cooperating person should lose his rights in connection with illness. There's not so many of us in the social committee have at least interpreted this. Strong reactions have taken place, including: from organisations representing mental health. They certainly also have reason to respond to the statements of the Minister of Social Affairs, in my opinion, if the Minister of Social Affairs and the Government draws that conclusion and makes the practical measures in the extension of this IA agreement between the Government, LO and NHO, and based on the treatment here in Stortingen now, that one should be able to tighten up in such a way that one could say that the employee should return to work even if she or he is still ill, and is too sick to go back to work. That clarification seems to me to have to come from the Social Minister today. So until the matter is resolved by the Government. We are pleased that the State and the social partners have agreed to continue the IA agreement, so that at least the uncertainty has been overcome. We also believe it is right that this agreement should be continued, despite the fact that it may not be realistic to achieve the 20 pst objective of the agreement. reduction of sick leave by the end of 2005. However, the agreement and the situation in the labour market show that it is important to create an inclusive working life, perhaps a more inclusive working life than this agreement so far has been able to achieve, and that it is very important to reduce sick leave, get sick workers back to work, and not least to get older and disabled people back into work. In this context, the IA Agreement has not been followed up, not least by the State. It's important that the state here takes on the extra responsibility that you have for being a driver in that context. Therefore, the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre find reason to ask questions by, among other things. whether the organisation grant is too low and too poorly organised today to bring disabled people back to work. We have therefore had the hope that the Government could come back with an assessment of this in the 2005 budget. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for this today, but it is still a clear signal to the Government to intensify this task of bringing the disabled and older people back into work and making working life inclusive for this group to a greater extent than it is today. Then it is important that the state also make resources, both in terms of economy and in terms of personnel, available for the best possible success of the IA agreement. I am thinking of institutes such as these work centres, the Social Security Agency and the Labour Inspectorate. They must have the resources to now be able to actively participate and contribute to the best possible success. At the same time, it is also clear that the State has a special responsibility, not least through the Health Services Act and the Health Enterprise Reform, for those who get sick. It turns out that the doctor’s absence and absence go beyond the employer’s period are increasing. It cannot be interpreted in any other way than the fact that long-term sick leave and those in need of treatment and rehabilitation pose the greatest challenge in relation to increasing sick leave. At that time, the government must ensure that sufficient resources are available to provide rapid and good treatment for those who are ill, as well as rehabilitation where appropriate. In this case, the Centre Party believes that it is important to have sufficient resources in the healthcare sector, in the specialist healthcare and rehabilitation system, so that one can receive the fastest possible treatment and also the best possible rehabilitation, and that the rehabilitation capacity available in the country can be exploited, which is not the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e233	Odelstinget is currently treating important changes in the rules of search notification. I am pleased that the Government has received unanimous support for all the proposals. The social partners are behind the strategy of increasing the focus on the workplace as a central area for preventing sick leave. It is worrying that sick leave continues to increase. The intention agreement on a more inclusive working life has not met the set objectives so far. It is particularly unfortunate that long-term absences are increasing most. Long-term sick leave is often the beginning of a lasting exclusion from work. Every five persons of working age now have social security as their main source of income. The increase in sick leave involves high costs for the individual, for the employer and for society. For individuals, a search report means that the possibility of social contacts and the use of their abilities is just being lost. The personal burden of being out of work is significant. The employer suffers a production loss and loses valuable labour. For society, increasing sick leave means a huge burden on spending. In addition, there will be a significantly smaller room for prioritising other important welfare tasks. The legislative proposals make greater demands on all parties. Both employers and employees need to take a more obligatory responsibility, both to prevent sick leave and also to facilitate the rapid return of sick people to work. In many cases, it is possible to maintain links with the labour market with a better organisation of work. An increased effort by employers is required to adapt the employment situation to the individual situation. This will be a good investment in one of the main resources of the company, namely the employees. The doctors and employees, on their side, need to pay more attention to what you can do despite illness, rather than just focus on what you can't do. The proposals that Stortinget is dealing with today will increase the possibility for employees to be at work even if you are not completely healthy. The government will strengthen the employee's right to be at work, even when you cannot provide 100 pst. Under the Employment Environment Act, the employer is obliged to organise the work of a worker with reduced working capacity. From April 2003, the employer has been obliged to draw up a follow-up plan. Work on the follow-up plan shall start at the latest when the worker has been away from work for eight weeks due to illness. The employer is obliged to deliver the follow-up plan to the social security office. If this is not the case, the social security office shall obtain the follow-up plan no later than after 12 weeks of passive search. I have noticed that the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party consider it reasonable to harmonise the provisions of the Working Environment Act on the deadline for the follow-up plan with the six-week deadline of the IA declaration. The members of the Right and Christian People's Party also ask the Government to assess changes at this point in the further work on labour law. I'm going to deal with this issue with the Minister of Labour and Administration. In the light of the agreement with the social partners, it is proposed to introduce an activity requirement during the sick pay period. In order to qualify for sickness benefit, the sick person shall, as early as possible and at the latest within eight weeks, seek what is called work-related activity. The general rule is that you have to be at work. Only when disease prevents it, you should be able to be away from work. If you have the opportunity to work part-time or work in the workplace, you should do so, and the employer should facilitate this. The employee must help to clarify the functioning as early as possible. The doctor shall always assess, both at the time of first and later renewal, whether he or she may be at work or in a work-related activity. The game will get people to work, not send them to bed. It is about twisting attention and focus from what limitations the disease involves, to what opportunities it has to be active. The medical association and the social security system have jointly launched a professional development programme on the role of a doctor in the inclusive working life. This programme is being implemented across the country. Studies carried out by the Rikstrygdeverket indicate that active health care reports contribute to a higher level of sick leave than is necessary. The government therefore proposes that classified search messages be evaluated before the active search. Active search reports shall be reserved for those cases where the sick person is unable to carry out the usual tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e256	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e260	I have to say that I think the Social Minister has today described what we are going to adopt, in a balanced way. I believe that the changes that take place in the IA agreement, and the changes that are now taking place in the law, are absolutely beneficial to all parties. That's why it's amazing that the Minister of Social Affairs was able to make the happy message, the good news, in the way she did in New Year's New Year, and as we woke up on June 4. I almost have to ask: is it such that the NRK has completely misunderstood the Minister for Social Affairs, or is it such that the Minister for Social Affairs has gradually learned how to convey this message? If the message is to be presented in the way we experienced on 4 June, at least there will be no connection to this agreement, and that is understandable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e267	For those of us who are up a little earlier, the message was more nuanced at noon. 7:00 a.m. - that was also later than the day. But I can reassure the representative Hanssen that my starting point is that most people actually want to be in work even if you're a little sick. We believe that having a right to work is important, even if you cannot deliver 100 pst. The changes proposed now provide an increased opportunity to work, and I believe that this is positive both for the employee and for the employer. The new rules mean that attention is given to the workplace as the main place of action, both for prevention and for facilitating effective interaction, which in many cases has not been good enough. Sick leave is also related to how you feel about the job, and it is important that you get the arrangements that the matter is about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e274	The amendments to the proposal for restrictive measures contained in the proposal for a resolution are supported by a unanimous committee. Much of what the Minister for Social Affairs was involved in, was well-balanced and can be fully supported. As the Minister for Social Affairs said, better organisation in the companies is important. That is why it is logical to propose, at the same time, that the organisation grant be granted only to companies that have signed an IA agreement. Those who lose it are just the state, or the taxpayers, by paying sick pay instead of getting people back to work, or the employees, who do not get an organized job so that they can function in a good way out of businesses. I have to ask the Minister for Social Affairs: does the Minister for Social Affairs really think it makes sense to just give the organization grant to the companies that have signed the IA agreement, or is it simply an attempt to force people to sign?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e283	The social partners that evaluated the agreement with the Government on 3 December, which is part of the background to the case under consideration today, have requested that the organisation grant be reserved to the IA companies. So, in good Norwegian, it's going to be IA-exclusive. Of course, it is also an objective that as many businesses as possible should participate, and per. Thus, in May of this year, 6,650 enterprises have entered into an inclusive employment contract, covering approximately 1 million employees or about 54.4 pst. by the employees. But I'm also going to say that the work on getting more businesses from New Year's is slow. By the turn of the year was 51 p.m. by the enterprises covered by the contract and the increase to 54,4 pst. is too small. But it is these companies that have the facilitation grant, and it is also recommended by the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e290	The new rules strengthen the employee’s right to work, said the Council of State in its main contribution today. That is absolutely in agreement with the SV. Obviously, the social partners also agree and therefore enter into an agreement that includes those changes. But the play we heard on June 4th in the Newscast at 4:00 p.m. 07.30 was that the right to be ill-appointed is greatly reduced. It is quite obvious that the social partners would not have concluded an agreement if the employees put the impression that they are being heavily reduced in health insurance. Therefore, it is important for the Swedish Government to take a stand on these two statements. Which one is right? Is it such a way to strengthen the right of employees to have contact with the place of work when you are sick, to get out of a medical report, or is it, as you said in the newscast, that the right to be sick is greatly reduced? In short, are the search warrants greatly reduced here?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e295	The current rules affect all parties, the employer, the employee and the doctor. The starting point is that most people want to be at work, and we need to strengthen this by providing for a right to be at work, and that it is an obligation for the employer to do just that. Whether you should not be at work is a medical assessment as to whether activity is incompatible with the diagnosis and treatment you receive. This is the reinforced role in relation to the doctor's interaction with the worker. The employee also has to participate in the functional assessment of himself: what can I do despite not being completely in shape? Thus, the employer can make it possible for him to work with the skills and opportunities he actually has.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e302	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e307	I'm a little surprised by the rough outcomes that came from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The representative Ballo also criticized me for adding up to a confrontational line in my post. I find that strange, because in my post I just underlined that it is a common responsibility for the employer, the employee and the doctor to reduce sick leave. The laws also embrace all three parties. I also do not understand what I said that would be an attack on the employee. So there is a stronger focus on the workplace. That should be an advantage for the employee. Furthermore, it should be an advantage for the employee to have a greater pressure on the employer to participate in a business plan, a plan that will make it easier for employees to work at work. It must also be an advantage for the employee to be accepted in order to be able to work and work at work without being 100 pst. fresh. That's the opposite of exclusion. It's real inclusion, and that's what the activity requirement is. Then I would also like to remind you that we actually have a unanimous attitude. It's a unanimous committee that ends up on the Government's proposals. What is adopted today is based on agreement between the social partners, and it should weigh very heavily on us politicians, since it is the social partners that have the primary responsibility to reduce sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e316	Beate Heieren Hundhammer reminds Stortinget that we have a unanimous attitude. It may well be worth turning it the other way around and reminding a minority government that the unanimous attitude will not remain unanimous for a very long time if you choose the kind of rhetoric that we have heard from the Social Minister lately. What we've seen of reactions from different employees and from different stakeholder organisations is that if that's the approach you're going to take to an inclusive working life, they won't be involved. That's why it's a good idea to try to act this way towards employee organisations that they realize that it's a reality that you're looking for inclusion, instead of operating the way Heieren Hundhammer now does, with a kind of pressure to get people in, or so that whoever doesn't want to, it should, as you can hear from the wording of what's said. In 1998, the total benefits in Norway for sickness, rehabilitation, re-employment, disability, and social welfare were about EUR 10 million. NOK 56 billion. By the end of 2003, that figure had increased to DKK 98.2 billion, which is an extremely dramatic increase, and where all groups are increasing. What you can ask about, when you don't have any explanation for the reasons for this, is about the government's approach, as they are now running the policy, reinforces these trends by creating a non-inclusive, out-of-date, work life, and where people feel that they can't cope with that kind of work. Instead of targeting the various parties who are willing to cooperate on solutions, the government should perhaps think through whether there was anything the government could have done, something the ministry could have done, something the Council of State could have done, to improve the development that is becoming paralysed to all the economies of Norway, which now accounts for one sixth of the entire state budget. But I don't see any kind of self-recognition here. Instead, the aim is to target those who are seeking to contribute through the inclusive contract for a working life that will include as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e325	It is possible that there were relatively strong outcomes from the Centre Party and SV. I can't believe it. But at least there is reason to ask what is the reality, and what is the position when the wording and the conclusion on the basis of the case we are dealing with today are the following: the right to be sick is greatly reduced. I'm in favour of an inclusive working life, and I think it's positive, as I said in my first post, that we've got that agreement, and that it goes on. Inclusion is, among others: to be entitled to work even if you are "a little ill", as the Minister for Social Affairs said. It's positive. But then the question is, what is "a little sick"? The activity requirement during the sick leave period is in line with the IA agreement, said the Minister of Social Affairs. It's okay, too. The doctor shall assess this and the fitness to enter, for example: parts of a job in the company. We asked questions about this with the organization system in the companies is good enough. This has to do with inclusion, and it's good. But is it possible to subtract from what we have here, that the right to be sick should be greatly reduced? The question is still -- I had no opportunity to get a reply, but I want to ask the question again: Do you strengthen employees' rights in the event of illness, or do you weaken the right to be ill? In that case, it's the opposite of inclusion, namely exclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e334	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 522]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e342	The odelsting should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e349	During the debate, Mr Sandberg, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: "Decision of the Act amending Law No 24 June 1988 64 on the admission of foreigners to the State and their residence here II Law 24 June 1988 No. 64 on the admission of foreigners to the State and their residence here is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 43, new last sentence, is replaced by the following: in matters which may include matters relating to the security of the State or to foreign policy considerations, decisions are taken by the Ministry. [[Law on Foreign Affairs]] [[Law on Foreign Affairs]] This Act enters into force immediately.The Government asks the Government to take immediate action on all matters which are now dealt with by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs and which may include matters of national security or foreign policy." The proposal under B shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e382	An alternative will be between the option and the proposal from the Progress Party under A.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e385	We would like it to be voted separately over the proposals of the Progress Party under A.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e390	Then we vote first on the proposals of the Progress Party under A.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e405	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: "The government is asked to assess, in the context of the 2005 State budget, whether the amount of the facilitation grant is sufficient to counteract the negative development of employment and follow-up of disabled persons." Proposal No. 2 sounds: "The Government asks the Government to ensure that non-IA enterprises are also able to receive an organisation grant in line with the IA activities." The proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e672	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-08-lower.ana.ud1454e682	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
