ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e49	I'm not going to start a debate. But in the case of an incurrency, SV is in the committee's comment, the first part, and is going out of it. We are going to vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e56	It's the same with the Central Party that the previous speaker picked up. In the event of an incurrency, the Centre Party has entered into the Committee's notes on page 1, second column. That's not where we're going to stand. On page 2, first column starting with "The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Socialist Left Party", shall also be included. Otherwise we will also vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e68	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 530]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e84	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e93	Two years ago, it was decided to extend the temporary ban on xenotransplant until 1 January 2005. The majority wanted to wait for the Council of Europe guidelines. These guidelines were delayed but have now been adopted. It is suggested that the regulation of xenotransplantation should include comprehensive control, monitoring and safety measures to prevent the spread of unknown animal-to-human infectious agents. The guidelines of the Council of Europe also underline the importance of providing information to patients undergoing such transplantation. There should be strict rules for consent, public transparency and broad public debate on these fundamental issues relating to the crossing of species boundaries. One must also take into account the health and welfare of the animals. Norway has set up an interim body which recommends the development of a permanent regulatory regime that allows for xenotransplantation under specific conditions. The government agrees to this, but believes that one needs more time to investigate such a law before it is sent to the hearing. It must be reconciled with several other laws, and regulations must be drawn up. In view of this, the Government requests that the temporary ban be extended until 1 June 2008. The interim body shall continue as an important expert body during that period. If Norwegian patients wish to participate in clinical trials abroad during this period, the Ministry will consider exemptions from the temporary ban. An overall committee supports the Government and wants a law based on the precautionary principle, the guidelines of the Council of Europe and the WHO. The majority, consisting of all parties outside the government parties, believe that the law should be completed one year earlier, and promote proposals in line with this. The Christian People's Party does not understand this urgency. Xenotransplantation has not been clinically used anywhere in the world. Something's happening in the United States and in England. However, there is no treatment provision that is clear and waiting for those who need such a health service. Today’s use of processed animal tissues, such as heart valves and veins, is not live cells and is therefore not subject to the prohibition. Like the rest of the committee, the Christian People's Party is concerned about the lack of organs for patients. We know that a transplant allows for better quality of life and longer life. Developments in Norway have improved following the use of donor cards. According to the Foundation organ donation, there has been a positive development in the number of donations and transplants in 2003. For the first time in ten years, the waiting lists for organ donation have been reduced, and for the first time, we are topping the list in Scandinavian context. Last May, a donor-responsible doctor was appointed at all 28 donor hospitals in the country. The Rikshospital makes a great effort to coordinate and train health professionals in this context. There has been a discussion in the Committee on the establishment of an organ donor register to further increase the number of donors. A joint committee wants to explore such an opportunity. The parties to the Government support the new proposal presented. The Christian People's Party is pleased that someone will now take time to look at the experience of countries that have introduced such a register. It has been shown that one must have a very high registration rate in order for such a register to lead to increased access to bodies. One has to look at whether administrative costs are proportionate to the result. It is worth noting the experience that Spain has had. From the worst in Europe, they are now leading in relation to access to donor organs, without having their own donor register. At the same time, it is important to make use of accessible bodies. According to the letter of 2 June this year from the Foundation organ donation, last year the Rikshospitalet had to say no to 26 offers of organs due to capacity problems. Here we have a challenge. Finally, I take up the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party, which are referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e133	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e136	The lack of organs for transplantation is a problem. Many people are on long waiting lists to get lifesaving organs. This problem is the background to the debate we have today. In the future, new medical possibilities can be opened up for the transfer of living biological material from animals to humans, i.e. what we call xenotransplantation. Developments in this area are fast. It is therefore important to facilitate participation in any development here in Norway. In Norway, we have a temporary ban on xenotransplantation, which would only apply until 2003 and which was subsequently extended until 1 January 2005. The Government is now proposing to extend the ban further until 1 January 2008. The Labour Party considers this to be too long and proposes, together with the majority, an extension until 1 January 2007. We believe that a permanent regulation of the law should be developed that opens up xenotransplant under specific conditions, as recommended by the national interim organ for xenotransplantation. The Council of Europe has already developed guidelines in the field of xenotransplant testing. The Council of Europe recommends that the indications for the use of xenotransplant must be strict, and the individual institutions for transplantation must be national and approved for this use. The WHO also recommends national regulation of the xenotransplant area. In the light of the work of the Council of Europe and the experience and knowledge gained in this area, the Labour Party and the majority of the Committee believe that it should be possible to draw up its own Norwegian legislation within a period of two and a half years and that the current ban on xenotransplantation should not be extended beyond 1 January 2007. It is important to stress that a future law must be based on the precautionary principle. The use of animal biological material may pose a risk to humans from a donation. It may endanger the lives of recipients, but it may also endanger the spread of infection to others. Therefore, the majority believe that clinical trials must ensure that such a risk of infection has been identified before the prohibition of xenotransplantation is lifted or dispensation given. It is also absolutely necessary to lay down a law to protect animal health and which does not expose experimental animals to unnecessary suffering. In recent years, due to increased awareness of the need for organ donation, both in the population as a whole and in hospitals, we have gained somewhat better access to organ donors. Nevertheless, the number of people waiting for lifesaving organs is still too high. The Labour Party believes that it may be reasonable to set up a dedicated donor register, where those who wish to give up their organs for transplantation after their death can register. I am pleased that there is now an agreement to ask the Government to assess the establishment of an organ donor register or other measures in order to achieve increased organ donation, and to present the matter to the Storing in the spring of 2005. This could be an important contribution to ensuring even more organs for transplantation in Norway. It can save lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e155	Today’s technology and the ability to save more and more lives contribute to the increase in donor inventories in Norway and the rest of the world. Compared to the population, Norway has been on average in the middle of the tree in Europe for several years in terms of the number of donations. In 2001 and 2002, we experienced a worrying decline before the trend, fortunately, returned again in 2003. The statistics show that in 2003 Norway was in a good fifth place in Europe, compared with the number of inhabitants. This is a positive trend, which fortunately continues into 2004, and which we must help to continue. The goal must be to be able to offer the safest and best form of transplantation to individual patients in the future on the day of the need. In order to achieve this, access to donors must continue to increase. Looking at Spain, which was the worst in Europe ten years ago, we see that it is useful to work to recruit more donors. Today, Spain is best in Europe in terms of access to donor organs. Norway must aim to be at least as good as Spain. In order to be the best, efforts must be made to strengthen measures related to the internal organisation of hospitals. Knowledge of donation needs to be upgraded through motivation and training of health professionals and donors in individual hospitals. Targeted information campaigns in relation to the donor card scheme need to be strengthened, so that more people take a positive view of donation. For all to be tested, the Right and Government support the proposal to assess the establishment of a donor register and/or other measures in order to achieve increased organ donation. However, we would point out that the Foundation's organ donation refers to poor, bureaucratic and precious experience from other countries in that type of register. However, it is important to assess this, so that nothing is lost in the fight for increased access to donors in the future. The right and government don't want any haste in this matter. On the contrary, we want to slow down. It is necessary to facilitate a broad societal debate on different ethical issues related to the transfer of living biological material from animals to humans. For example, in the case of xenotransplantation: whole organs, body fluids, tissues or cells from animals to humans. We know today that such transplantation is risky and can put the recipient's life at risk. Such donation may also pose a risk of transmission of infection to the rest of the population. In order to ensure that there is a risk of possible spread of foreign infectious agents from animals to humans, it is considered important that more precise knowledge of the risk of transmission is put in place. For this reason, we believe that there is a need for more time to put in place the necessary regulatory mechanisms and a broad public debate on xenotransplantation. The faction from the Right and Christian People's Party therefore supports the Government that the temporary ban on xenotransplantation must be extended by three years until 1 January 2008. The proposal by the minority has been taken up by the representative Woie Duesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e174	An overall committee agrees with the Government that a permanent legal regulation of xenotransplantation should be developed in Norway, but the Government does not take a stand in favour of the possible promotion and implementation of this legal regulation. However, the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Party of Progress and the Socialist Left, in the vote, advocates that such regulation be drawn up and ready for use from 1 January 2007 and that xeno-transplant is opened in Norway from the same date. The possibility of transplantation of animal-to-human tissues and organs has been explored for a very long time. The main problems during the research period have been to provide a guarantee that different infectious agents can be transferred from animals to humans through such transplantation. This problem now seems, according to scientific literature, to be more or less eliminated. However, over several years in Norway, as in other countries, calves have used heart valves for the surgical treatment of heart valves in humans. The last similar case was pending in Odelstinget, it was pointed out that the Council of Europe had not at that time made a final decision in relation to xenotransplantation. However, on 19 June 2003, the Council of Europe adopted a decision opening such a transplant based on national legislation and regulations. This with control and monitoring measures is an important and crucial element for the prevention and, where appropriate, control of transmission. I also point out that the World Health Organisation recommends national regulation of xenotransplantation, and that it is in close cooperation internationally. Unfortunately, the Government does not seem to pay particular attention to either the Council of Europe decision or the WHO recommendation, but proposes to maintain the ban on xenotransplant until 2008. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, also promote in the vote proposals to allow such transplantation from 2007. Furthermore, the majority supports a proposal for the Government to draw up a new xeno-transplant law, based on the Council of Europe guidelines of 19 June 2003. The Progress Party is aware that the countries that have previously introduced donor registers have varying and, in part, poor experience with this register. However, the Party considers that the donor register should not be out of date in Norway and looks forward to the investigation that the entire Committee is now asking for the Government to carry out. It's positive. I think it is positive that in this setting it has finally succeeded to split the government parties and the Socialist Left Party in these kinds of political issues. This can be a good promise for the future, so that we can make more use of this technology in the future, as development progresses in Europe and in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e189	In 1967, Christian Barnard transplanted the first human heart in Cape Town, and since then there has been a worldwide development where it has become increasingly common to use organs that have been donated. Heart transplants have also been performed in Norway, on a significant scale, since 1984, and not only in the Rikshospitalet. We see that kidney transplantation has occurred and that liver transplantation is also being performed. This means that, unlike 40 years ago today, organs are available that allow the treatment of previously fatal conditions. I had a conversation with the Foundation organ donation just two days ago. One I talked to had a heart transplant eleven years ago. So what would be a medical sensation in 1967 is now so common that in the big-scale restaurant you talk to people who have had such a transplant done, without thinking about it in particular. Then we see how technology has still made progress and is facing new challenges. As has been mentioned, the use of flaps from animals to human implantation is already under way today, but there are dead cells and there is no risk of infection. For many years cells have been used to make animal insulin, but technology has now made it possible to use it instead of human beings, thus achieving an even better result. SV is concerned that new technologies should be made available, but that the precautionary principle should be maintained. We know that if we use the possibility of transplanting whole organs from animals to humans too early, then one can face a significant risk that one must seek to eliminate. Nor have we recorded that it has been possible to transplant whole organs anywhere in the world so far, but we see a development in which you might not be able to use living cells as long as you can make use of them. What we see through the Council of Europe's treatment is that there is a need to regulate this area, in order to meet the challenges that will come in a few years. I think that a bit of the debate today makes it clear that on each side you see that the law means that you either remove the ban if it comes, or on the other hand, if you just push the law out in time, you ensure that the law is also pushed out in time. But SV has a completely different view of this law. It must be fully possible when you have a law of xenotransplantation, to differentiate with respect to the methods that it is about, where it reaches, for example. in the case of the most extreme, such as organ transplantation, may continue to have a prohibition which is prolonged on time, while there may be methods which are less extensive and which at that time are established as treatment methods and for which it would be natural to open. In other words, it is possible, through the legislation, to differentiate between methods of what it is appropriate to have a prohibition on legislation and what it is not appropriate to have a prohibition on legislation. Then we notice that the Council of Europe considers it appropriate to have legislation in place in all European countries before lifting the ban on xenotransplantation. Norway also has a responsibility to create this law. Unlike the Government, SV believes that it is possible to obtain this legislation in two and a half years, when guidelines from the Council of Europe are now available. We in SV have been concerned about stimulating organ donation from humans. Essentially, it will be about people who are dead - kidney transplantation is an exception in this regard - and we have believed that registration schemes could be a contribution in this respect. When we promoted this proposal in the committee, we later recorded reactions from a number of trade unions, including from the Foundation's organ donation, regarding different experiences abroad. Those are the objections we're taking inwards. We think it is appropriate that the government be given the opportunity to both investigate it and take into account the need described by the Foundation's organ donation, namely that it would be appropriate to have a type of national organ donation coordinator, so that better coordination and better exploitation can be achieved than is currently available. The Committee has put forward a proposal, proposal D, which I am promoting. Point C of the opinion of the Committee shall be deleted and replaced by proposal D, which shall be sent to the Grand Duchy for examination.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e212	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e215	In Section 15 of the Norwegian Transplant Act, a temporary prohibition is included in respect of xenotransplantation, and this temporary prohibition applies until 1 January 2005. The Government is now asking that this ban be extended and extended until 1 January 2008. It's important that we get right here, and that we don't do it in such a way that we make problems instead of making a better solution in the health field. As previous speakers have also pointed out, it is not as long as this with human-to-human transplants, and this with xenotransplantation, i.e. the transplantation of animal organs or animal material to humans, is only experimentally staged and little tested. We know that the Council of Europe has dealt with this matter and said that it is desirable that all the Member States have their legal bases and have regulated this area before a broad-based one opens it. I think it's right, as the government also points out, that you take the time here. In order to get the record right, I would like to point out that the representative Alvheim took a very bold majority with regard to the position: the centre party also forms part of this majority. We believe that this ban should last until 1 January 2007, and that good time should be spent there in light of both the ethical and medical conditions that need to be elucidated and clarified before possible xenotransplantation in Norway. It's not like the representative Alvheim said that from 1 January 2007, everyone in this majority believes that it should be opened for xenotransplant. It is a debate and an assessment - medically and ethically - to be carried out up to that time, and if one is mature, this temporary ban will be replaced by a law that takes on board the need to have a code of xenotransplantation. To the principle that underlies our position here, it's saying that it's the precautionary principle, which means that we want to have a continued ban on xenotransplant. There are many things that are related to this with xenotransplantation, among other things. the risk of infection to humans, both for the recipient of the organ and the risk of infection from that person to other parts of the population. This needs to be clarified much better than today. It is also an animal protection aspect in this case that ethically needs to be clarified before this can be started. With regard to the need for organ donation, there has been a good job in Norway recently, including in the United Kingdom. with these cards. In addition to what the majority propose here today, we hope that the Government will take this up and evaluate an organ donor register, will mean that we will get more people volunteering to donate organs, so that the need for xenotransplantation can decrease, and also that we will release the trade that is now increasingly seen with human organs from the poor part of the world to the rich part of the world. It's an international trade that we shouldn't have, in my opinion. So I hope that the Government will look at the proposal that has now been put forward by the representative, Mr Ballo, on behalf of the majority, and that during 2005 we will get back a case in which we can deal with how ordinary organ donation can be strengthened and increased in Norway, so that we can avoid the trade that I mentioned, and that perhaps we do not have the great need for xenotransplantation when we are going to take the new debate in front of a change to the law on 1 January 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e232	Odelstingen is currently examining the proposal to extend the temporary prohibition of xenotransplantation by the Transplant Act pending the development of permanent regulatory regulation of the field. Although there has been a positive development in transplants in Norway in recent years, there are still long waiting times for such treatment. The lack of organs is an international problem, and the possibility of carrying out xenotransplantation has therefore been discussed in many countries and in several international organisations. Xenotransplantation can become a current form of treatment for several diseases or disorders in the future. At the same time, the form of treatment involves a number of uncertainties, not least in relation to the risk of accidental transmission of animal infection to humans. However, as underlined in the proposition, the results of some recent trials suggest that the risk of such infection is less than that assumed when the Xeno transplant committee in June 2001 survived its stoppage. At the same time, it must be recognised that the data base is still limited and that further research and testing will be necessary. In particular, in view of the uncertainty regarding the risk of infection, it is underlined in the proposal that, before xenotransplantation is opened in Norway, a permanent regulatory regime should be developed to draw the limits of such activities. As you know, the Ministry has proposed to extend the current ban on xenotransplantation by three years, i.e. approx. three and a half years from today. This extension is justified by the importance of such a timeframe for the development of sound legislation in the field. The field of xenotransplantation is characterised by highly complex and high-tech human and veterinary medicine and raises a wide range of difficult ethical and medical issues. In addition, complex veterinary and animal ethics issues arise from such activities. For this reason, the preparation of a regulation will be similarly complex, comprehensive and time consuming. There is a need for a broad public debate on the issues and general consultation on future regulatory proposals will be very important. The majority believe that such legislation can be properly developed until 1 January 2007. As indicated in the proposal, the Ministry has carried out other assessments thereof. The proposal has shown that certain forms of clinical trials are taking place in some countries. However, there is no reason to assume that xenotransplantation will be widely used in the near future, neither in clinical trials nor in clinical use. However, it must be taken into account that medical developments can take place quickly and that it is difficult to predict with certainty whether or when major breakthroughs can occur in the field. For this reason, the Ministry of Proposition has stated that if clinical trials are to be initiated before the entry into force of a permanent law or the development of treatments abroad that Norwegian patients would also like to take part in or benefit from, the Ministry will consider the need to make specific derogations from the prohibition. As I see it, this would ensure the care of Norwegian patients' interests until permanent regulation has been developed. However, the Ministry will give up its work on the basis of the decisions taken by the Stortinget today. The government is also requested to assess the establishment of an organ donor register or other measures to strengthen organ donation in Norway. I share the scepticism of such a register as expressed by the Foundation's organ donation, but in line with the proposal put forward by the representative of Ballo on behalf of an overall committee today, I would like to make such an assessment and come back to the Storting in spring 2005, as requested. I do not consider this proposal to prevent the government from working in the meantime with other measures to strengthen organ donation in Norway. We've seen good effects of public information, and the Foundation's organ donation has launched the donor card, which has been of great importance. Hospitals have established a system of donor-responsible doctors. I can inform the Stortinget that, in a letter of 7 June this year, the Social and Health Directorate recommends the establishment of a national donor coordinator in hospitals in line with the so-called Spanish model. The Ministry of Health will follow the request and recommendation of the Directorate of Social and Health to establish such a national coordinator. A European Health Social Security Card has also been introduced that replaces the old form E 111. In the EU, it is discussed whether this card should also be used as a smart card with defined personal and health data. In the long term, this will also be relevant for evaluation in Norway. In that case, it could replace today's paper-based donor card. This shows that there are a number of important processes in place to strengthen organ donation, and these are processes that we will follow up, as well as that we will come back with the assessment Stortinget asks for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e259	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e262	The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve said that the government would "illy slowly" in this case, and that also gives the proposition the impression. But I'm not so sure if it's of the same interest for patients who are in a situation where organs cannot be provided, and where the result is then. My question to the Minister of Health is concrete: Is it the ideological starting point of the Government that makes you think you are an extra leader in this kind of case, or is the ban until 2008 based on professional criteria, from the viewpoint of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e269	There is no doubt that the international process, among other things: in the Council of Europe, took longer than we anticipated when the previous proposal was dealt with in the Grand Duchy. That is a major reason why one today is not ready with a proposal for new legislation. It is also true that it is not a subject status that suggests that a person can now implement xenotransplants as a treatment provision in Norway. Thus, it is possible, even in the interests of professional status in the field, to establish the leading sense of good which I perceive that the majority, at least the majority of the majority, is behind this case. On the part of the Government, we have pointed out the uncertainty that is, and the ethical and legal clarifications that must happen, and we believe that it is necessary in the time we have recommended to present this to the Storting, but we are dealing with what the Storing decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e278	I think I can enjoy the Council of States saying that it is not just the majority of the majority, but the whole majority who are in favour of using the precautionary principle. I have seen that the intention of the Council of Europe's recommendation is that the law can precisely regulate the challenges we face. It is not the case that patients lose some rights today because this law is not in place, because there is no treatment provision related to whole organs. However, if it were later to appear that type of transplant, regardless of what one might think of it, a kind of law must also be in Norway to deal with that situation. In theory, Norwegian citizens accept an offer abroad, and follow-up is required in Norway. Then we need a law that takes account of that situation, and then you simply don't know how to deal with it. My question to the Council of State is: Is it not just appropriate - irrespective of the position of xenotransplantation - to have a law regulating this activity and clarifying how such patients should be able to deal with offers and with treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e287	Yes, I will answer confirmatoryly the question asked by the representative of Ballo. It is appropriate to have legislation to address a situation, whether it concerns the development of a national treatment provision or developments in other countries from which Norwegian patients can benefit. That is why the Government has just proposed that we should have such a legislation. It is not right, as the representative Alvheim said, that the Government creates uncertainty as to whether we should have such a legislation. We've clearly said that in the proposition. It is my clear view that such regulation should be able to deal with the type of situation that the representative, Mr Ballo, points to, until permanent legislation is in place, possibly by way of derogation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e294	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 531]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e312	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 532]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e320	Odelstingen then goes to voting in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e400	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e413	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e427	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e434	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposals by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party for the D, by Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Labour Party, Right, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and the Center Party The Committee had suspended the adoption by Odelstingen of such decisions:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e470	There is an aberrant proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: "Law No. 9 February 1973 No. 6 on transplantation, hospital autopsy and discharge of corpses, etc. the second paragraph of Section 15 shall be replaced by the following:Section 6a shall cease to apply on 1 January 2008.IIThe law shall enter into force immediately."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e494	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e504	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e519	the position of the Committee on C is deleted; In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget. The proposal from the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party to D reads: "The Government is asking the Government to assess the establishment of an organ donor register or other measures in order to achieve increased organ donation, and to present the matter to the Stortinge in the spring of 2005. This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e601	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e611	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-09-lower.ana.ud2541e622	There is no record.
