ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e57	The President has to ask the representatives to stay in the Chamber until we're done with all the formalities. We have some voting left over yesterday, which we have to do before we start on today's map. The representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative of Inge Wohnning will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e67	With this, I submit proposals from the representatives of Jørgen Kosmo, Inge Wohnning, Lodve Solholm, Ågot Valle, Odd Holten, Berit Brørby and Carl I. Hagen on the amendments to the Constitution § 20, 30, 86 and 87 and new sections 15 and 82, concerning the Riksrecht.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e72	The representative of Kjell Engebretsen will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e75	I have the honour, on behalf of Jens Stoltenberg, Jørgen Kosmo, Carl I. Hagen, Berit Brørby and myself, to propose amendments to the Constitution with a view to introducing a system of dissolution and positive parliamentaryism, investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e80	The representative, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e83	On behalf of the representatives Siri Hall Arnøy, Heikki Holmås, Ågot Valle and myself, I will make proposals to amend Section 50 of the Constitution. The proposal is to change the age of voting rights from 18 years to 16 years in the event of major elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e88	Constitutional proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative of Inga Marte Thorkildsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e93	I allow myself to put forward a proposal to lift the ban on begging.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e99	The representative Signe Eye will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e102	On behalf of the representatives of Heikki Holmås, Lars Rise, Trine Skei Grande, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and the undersigned, I will present proposals for Vietnamese boat refugees residing in the Philippines with close relatives in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e107	The representative Per Sandberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e110	On behalf of the representatives of Carl I. Hagen, Arne Sortevik, Karin S. Woldseth and myself, I would like to propose measures to promote integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e115	The representative Anne Helen Rui will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e118	On behalf of the representatives of Gunn Karin Gjul, Knut Storberget and myself, I would like to propose measures to strengthen the legal certainty of victims of rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e123	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e138	We are then going to vote on the remaining items on the agenda for yesterday, no. 101. We had come to case no. 29 before the wetting plant collapsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e145	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party for the Advancement of the Odelstinget meeting on 15 June 2004: The proposal reads as follows: "With reference to the Basic Law § 83, Stortinget Höjesterett asks for a consideration of the following in relation to the Basic Law § 97 and 105: 1st@item: inlistbox It would be contrary to the Basic Law to introduce a right for parties to be able to demand the redemption of the fastener without the agreement of the landowner in relation to existing fasteners.2. It would be contrary to the Basic Law if any sum of redemptions were to be legalised to a certain number of times the fixation fee without an individual price fixing in which other factors are also weighted." Here the Central Party has announced that they will agree with the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e172	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Marit Arnstad, on behalf of the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstingt on 15 June 2004: "The Government requests the setting up of an independent expert committee to assess the relationship between the Government's proposed redemption rights for landowners and the Constitution § 105."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e188	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Marit Arnstad, on behalf of the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstingt on 15 June 2004: "The decision asks the Government, on the basis of an evaluation of the effects of the current law on the land, to propose changes to the law on the fastening of land so that owners of dwellings or cabins can be protected against unreasonable increases in the fastening charge."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e204	Proposals made by Marit Arnstad, representative of the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of Odelstinget on 15 June 2004 have been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: "It is recommended to the Government to ensure that the revenue of State Forest as a result of the redemption of the fasteners in the general government is distributed in the same way as the income of State Forest from fixed charges in the general government today." The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without a trial of reality - and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e216	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 15 June 2004: "The decision asks the Government to instruct the Information Society's Fund and State Forest so that the fee charged in the party contracts where OVF and State Forest are parties can be set at a maximum of $4,000 per measure of land, instead of $9,000 as today." [[OVF]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e248	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government asked the government to postpone the implementation of the monopoly decision on vending machines. Existing drafting authorisations shall be extended to ensure that the revenues of the voluntary teams and organisations are secured."; This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e270	It was supposed to be the votes that remained from yesterday's meeting. We shall now proceed to agenda No. 102. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. - No objection has been raised against the President's proposal, and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1-5 is dealt with as a whole - and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e331	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group, after parliamentary leaders, after the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and after the other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e342	The Financial Committee gave its opinion on the revised national budget on 11 June. The purpose of the budget revision is to adjust the budget in relation to changes in the financial framework conditions or to any specific need for changes in the decisions to be taken after the adoption of the ordinary budget. There are relatively modest amendments that the Government has promoted, and of course it contributes to less noise and concern about revised national budgets than we have experienced in the past. That's essentially what the government hasn't done -- what it hasn't done -- that's perhaps the most critical. It is only clear that the government parties and the Labour Party, which are seeking to present themselves as main opponents of Norwegian policy, have now agreed on both the state budget and the revised national budget for the current year. This means that these four parties agree on all the essentials of Norwegian policy. Jens Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party have been accusing the Government of not investing enough in the fight against unemployment throughout the winter. They have also listened to criticism of the economically very difficult situation of hospitals and a number of other factors. The Progress Party agrees that the Government has not done enough in a number of important areas, but it is just to note that there was no more than SEK 1.3 billion to make the Workers' Party feel very satisfied with the situation. There is no reason to believe that unemployment will be significantly reduced as a result of this reconciliation. The working party has repeatedly called for amendments to the rules on leave. The Progress Party is proposing this today, but the Labour Party is voting against it. It will therefore be difficult to take the Workers' Party seriously in the future. It doesn't help to sit and criticise the state of things on TV when you don't really have the chance to correct the distortions. The Labour Party cannot take full responsibility for economic policy - for the hospital economy, for the lack of sufficient funds to combat crime, for fiscal policy, for the sale of defence property, for increased passport fees and legal fees, which particularly affect them with poor finances, for schools, for the local economy, at all, depending on government appropriations. The Party notes that neither the Government nor the Workers' Party complies with the rules of action for the use of oil money, even though both parties are seeking to manufacture it in this way. The rule of action can now be interpreted as meaning that the proper use of oil money is the level at which the Government and the Workers' Party agree at all times. The Progress Party had to endure criticism when we presented our alternative government budget in the fall. We then used too much oil money, even if we proposed to invest them in road construction, industrial development and lower taxes. When the government provided revised budgets, they used themselves equally. But then, of course, it was perfectly sound and absolutely necessary. In any case, the rule of action is a remarkable construction, which should be completed as soon as possible. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is not possible to explain the fact that the state is only getting richer and richer, while important public tasks are not being satisfactorily solved. We should use this unique opportunity to invest in our own country, create growth, create new jobs, build roads and lower tax burden. But the rule of action stands in the way, and the profit is getting bigger and bigger. The Progress Party is sorry for the unfurnished fiscal debate that arises as a result of increasing expenditure in one area being covered in crowns in another area, regardless of how this crown is used and how it affects the development of the Norwegian economy. Let me do some examples. The government is rightly concerned about the increase in the cost of popular security. However, in order to balance the budget, they propose to reduce budget lines in completely different ways rather than to look at the reason for the growth of expenditure. In any case, it is certain that there will be no fewer unemployed, fewer insured or fewer sick persons by reducing the allocation to pave the way, cutting funds for innovation and innovation, or taking the famous cheese floor and cutting a little in the cabin and tormenting a number of budget lines. Another curious example becomes apparent when the Government uses oil money to compensate for the loss of tax revenue by the country. But they don't want to use the same mechanism to all the municipalities that experience failure in tax revenue. The municipalities have to deal with less money, is the answer from the Government. A third example is when the Government finds that the social security costs are higher than foreseen when we adopted the budget in the autumn. It's corrected for by cutting in a number of other areas. However, when revenue from the oil price rises sharply, this should be taken for information purposes. Oil price expectations are not just about transferring significantly billions of dollars to the Petroleum Fund. It also leads to a higher price of petrol and diesel. The government has calculated revenue from the petrol tax and diesel tax in the original budget. But here there is no corresponding zeal in correcting estimates, because of course this means giving people the most an advantage by reducing both the petrol and diesel taxes so that the price of the pumps becomes the one provided for in the budget when it was adopted in the harvest. As I said at the outset, this is a revision of the budget, and it means that the Progress Party has not tried to counter several political issues, although there are several aspects that we did not agree with when the budget was adopted. We have limited ourselves to making proposals in those areas where the problems seem most acute. The Progress Party has given priority to the fight against unemployment, the improvement of hospitals’ economies and increased means of combating crime. The Progress Party also rejects a number of the cuts proposed by the Government. Some of the cuts would be politically agreed upon during a regular budgetary procedure, but at the same time we are of the opinion that predictability is so important that in the middle of a budgetary year, sudden and unwarranted cuts are simply not fair. There is reason to continue to worry about unemployment. In the view of the Progress Party, tax relief would provide important supply side incentives to the economy, which in turn would result in increased growth and thus reduced unemployment. It would also make sense to invest more in road construction and industrial development across the country. A simple thing like improving the rules of leave in line with the requirements that have come from a number of industries and from the trade unions would have been a good contribution to many of the companies that would otherwise have to be cancelled. It won't be less available then. I note that in several public debates the Labour Party has agreed on a lot of this, but they must obviously have changed their perception now, as they do not vote for any of these proposals today. It is growth capacity that determines welfare developments in Norway. And there it is essential to promote value creation and productivity both in the public and private sectors. Then it becomes strange that the Government rejects the need for a more active industrial policy and an offensive and growth-creating economic policy, which is precisely the basis for promoting growth and value added. We also call for major structural reforms by the Government - structural reforms that will improve the efficiency of the public sector and the functioning of the economy. The government has long said that they will be committed to strengthening the basis for a growth-intensive business and increasing the efficiency of public activities. But where are the concrete measures actually going to be? I hope that these will be seen more in connection with the government budget of the autumn. In the revised budget, the Government has a broad reference to petroleum taxation. The part of progress has for a long time warned that the petroleum industry may face a negative development unless the necessary action is taken. So far, unfortunately, it's just to establish that there's no political will to act among the big crowd, since we're already in the so-called weather trail. The Government's proposals to promote the harvest are far from sufficient and will have only a marginal impact on the level of activity on Norwegian soil. The Progress Party has taken over the recommendations made by both oil companies, the supplier industry and the trade movement, and we believe that it is absolutely necessary to change the special tax on new findings. However, we will come back to this in the context of the budget procedure for the autumn. Today's debate is likely to be marked by a vigorous effort by the Workers' Party to expound what they have now done in the revised budget - or perhaps what they have not done. But it's not possible to do with trustworthiness. The Workers' Party has made itself flat for the Government. It is not possible to explain everything you have previously announced that you are going to do something about it, but you are not going to do anything about it when you have the chance. I see in the Double Communications of the Workers' Party the following: They indicate the need for additions both here and there. We can read that every day in the paper, that the Workers' Party is not satisfied either with the local economy or with the state of things in general. But that's since they're going to do something about it-- maybe next year, maybe the year after, but not now, not now when they have the chance to do something about it. So I can't help noticing that the Workers' Party at any time creates the impression that there are contradictions between reducing tax and tax pressures on the one hand and having clearer priorities related to increased public expenditure on the other. At the same time, it's a fact that there's been a few billion dollars in tax reliefs so far in this period. And now it looks like it's okay. Or is it that we might have to expect that the Workers' Party will increase these taxes and charges and bring them back to the level at which they were originally at, in order to afford to finance all the promises that they are going to make? That's not good to say. I would like to state that there are no contradictions between creating a competitive tax system on the one hand and finding room for right and necessary additions where it is a state task to solve welfare developments. It is a fundamental understanding that a competitive tax regime provides a basis for growth. It allows the state to collect more revenue from taxes and taxes over time, as a consequence of the fact that the wheels will go faster around the economy. I think that the Workers' Party could benefit from the rhetorical track they are now on, and start to discuss this in a slightly more constructive context, simply because tax policy must not confine itself to being a question of envy compared to the neighbor. It has to be a question of how we're going to live, and what we're going to live on in this country for decades to come. In conclusion, I would like to make the suggestions in the vote that the Advance Party is promoting either alone or together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e397	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e402	That is precisely what the Labour Party is doing: using the chance to correct serious errors in the Government's proposal in the revised national budget, while the Progress Party does not get much in the real world by putting itself far on the sidelines for the second time in terms of the budget for this year. There's going to be the most money for use in TV debates of that kind of opposition activity. It is interesting to note that the representative Siv Jensen attacked the Workers' Party more than the Government. It's probably part of the new strategy to be able to get into government offices on a later option that she's now starting to blush to the government. Now, the Progress Party has not taken the trouble to present an overall alternative, so it is a little difficult to get an overview of how much more oil money the Progress Party believes it is proper to use in this year's budget. But I assume that they did not intend to sit on the side line until the fall, but would use it as a training session for government cooperation with the Right after the election. So how much oil money does the Advance Party intend to lubricate that society in the government offices with?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e411	No, the Labour Party has not used the chance. The working party announced quite early that it was necessary to add a minimum of 700 million. kr to the country's hospital. They don't know that. They could have made it clear if they had joined the Progress Party and SV during the review of the revised budget. They didn't. It is not that we have not promoted an alternative to revised ones. If Svein Roald Hansen had read the setting on the desk in the hall, it would be easy to see that the Progress Party has reversed some cuts, made some additions and some amendments to what the Government did. With regard to the use of oil money in connection with the autumn budget, we will come back to that. But I would also like to remind you of a significant thing: the Progress Party is the party in this hall that actually also has the ability to cut significantly in a number of the expenditures that the state currently has, and that others can solve in a much, much better way than the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e420	The Progress Party began its comment on the economic situation by claiming that the development of the economy is not as good as the Government believes. In another note, the Progress Party writes that the Norwegian economy has almost no growth. So the black paint is starting to become a practice for the Progress Party. In the debate following the financial speech on 8 October 2003, Mr Jensen said: "The government estimates the growth of the economy next year to 2.5 pst. But why on earth should we believe in that prognosis?" In the evening post of 11 February this year, the representative Jensen claimed that "it is barely going around the Norwegian economy". And in progress April 3rd, she says, "Norwegian economy is within a dark development. Unemployment continues to rise, and business profitability is failing." The reality is that this year’s growth is expected to be well above 3 pst, five times higher than it was in 2003. Statistical central agency continues to track low interest rates, low inflation, higher growth, better profitability in enterprises and the decline in unemployment. So pessimism has become the trademark of the Progress Party in the economic debate. Can the representative Jensen say a little about the professional basis of these gloomy prospects?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e441	I have also seen what the Statistical Central Bureau has said. Today's Business Today, it's easy to see what forecasts they're making for the coming years. Yes, interest rates will stay low, they say, but unemployment will be reduced dramatically. It will come all the way down to 3.8 pst. in 2007. If that's the government's definition of a dramatic fall in unemployment, I don't think we have the same reality of what unemployment should be on. At the same time, the Central Statistical Office also notes that the growth in consumption and the investment in oil are driving the economy. They immediately say that there is little reason to believe that the same growth will take place in mainland Norway. This is what the Progress Party has warned against. We have always said that what is crucial to the development of the Norwegian economy is that growth comes in all the small and medium-sized enterprises in the country. Because that's where you finally have to hire more people in order for the wheels to go around.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e448	The progress party and SV have both 1 billion to the hospital in our revised national budget. Siv Jensen himself felt that the hospital was in a very difficult situation. Unfortunately, we don't get multiples for that. Thus SV has a proposal to push the balance requirement for healthcare professionals to the end of 2006 and not 2005, as is currently the case. It appeared at a board meeting in Health West this week that Health West has a deficit of 873 million. kr. Because of the balance sheet requirement, which unfortunately is not plural to push, half of the efficiency has to be achieved in the current year. It is therefore too late to push on the balance sheet requirement of the 2005 government budget in relation to large cuts and many cuts in the hospital sector. Why doesn't the Progress Party's proposal to push the balance requirement so that we could get a pressure against the other party in this room and get a multiple for it, and thus also got multiple numbers to prevent large cuts in the hospital sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e457	The Progress Party itself has made similar proposals on several occasions, simply because many of the country’s hospitals are facing a difficult situation. But I want to stress that many of the challenges we face as a consequence of the whole hospital reform are not solved by just placing more money into the sector unilaterally. It is also about improving efficiency and rationalising operations in a good way. I think we, although several of us recognize the need to also spend more money, simply because the consequences of not doing it mean longer queues, that fewer patients get treatment, also have to be honest enough to say that implementing such a comprehensive reform takes time. Then we also have to have some ice in our stomachs, given that some of the structural changes that are going to happen need time to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e462	In the Christian People's Party, we are very pleased with the introduction of ethical guidelines for the Petroleum Fund. In the verssaman context, this is what Norway is all about. The aim of ethical guidelines is precisely to prevent our prosperity from leading to accidents for others. When it comes to ethical guidelines for the Petroleum Fund, I need a certain clarification of the holding of the Progress Party. They agree with the comments made by the Committee that one considers it positive that the Government establishes ethical guidelines, but then the Progress Party goes out of the majority when the majority specifies that there are two fundamental ethical obligations to be met through the administration, to ensure that future generations become part of the oil assets, and to respect fundamental rights of those affected by the operations of the company in which the fund invests. I hope that the Progress Party will be able to clarify a little bit how they view this subject?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e472	The representative of Sørfonn shall be a little careful with throwing stone into glasshouses. When a majority in this Chamber put forward proposals last year to assess and explore the possibilities of introducing ethical guidelines into the Petroleum Fund, the Progress Party was part of it. Then the Christian People's Party voted against the proposal. So there was a completely different majority in this room that worked to get this done. We agreed because we also see the possibilities and the need to put in place practical guidelines. And our assessment is that what the government has committed to the revised budget is good and comprehensive. So we don't need to write long and complementary comments on this when we've taken the government's assessments for information.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e477	There are many economic theories that have been tested under this government. One of the theories is that large tax cuts for people provide moderate wage-fixing and thus increase the competitiveness of businesses and increase employment. The Progress Party also uses this opportunity to identify large tax cuts with this theory as justification. The 2002 State Budget provided us with a huge tax relief with a forward-looking party profile. 80 pst. Of the relief went to 20 pst. by the richest. In addition, a tax exemption was granted which meant that 41 billion kroner were paid tax-free. Wages and salaries in 2002 were record-priced - plus 5.3 pst. The party of progress nevertheless believes in this theory, as far as I have understood. What went wrong with reality in 2002, or is it the theory that has been refuted?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e486	The correctness shall be correct. I was injured to speak in my previous reply. The parties voted in favour in the Chamber, but they were against the vote as it stood from the Financial Committee. I'm not sure if I understood the question from Morten Lund. But I still can't see that this is a problem, or that there's some contradiction between giving tax relief and at the same time having a clear profile on which areas of activity you want to strengthen, rather on the contrary. And then you don't have to think that giving tax relief in itself won't mean that even those with high wages will get tax relief. It's now the more you earn, the more you pay in taxes. We must not try to turn the tax debate unilaterally into saying that those who pay at least in taxes will get the most tax relief. After all, at the end of the seventh, you actually get a gift of income that you don't pay taxes on. The Progress Party has always been committed to improving the social profile of the tax system, and that means that we will continue to make proposals to improve the social profile by increasing the relief from the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e495	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e498	I've said many times that in political matters the Progress Party jumps around, and it's not always so good to know where you have them. But in one area they're definitely to recognize, and that's when they're outside influence. Then they're really going to recognize. And that's how we saw the representative, Siv Jensen today, standing on the sideline and yelling. Then the political attacks become both unreasonable and rather unhealthy, and actually a little difficult to take seriously. The last harvest, when the Progress Party, which was in its time instituting the Bondevik II government, would not contribute to the adoption of the state budget and putting itself on the sideline, the Workers' Party took responsibility and negotiated an agreement with the government parties. This led to increased efforts in the fight against unemployment, more to school and care for the elderly in municipalities and more to health. It was therefore with great wonder that we had to note that the government in our region came to the Stortinget with proposals for cuts in most areas of the Labour Party prioritized before Christmas. It was therefore far from a matter of course that the Workers' Party would agree with the government parties on the revised budget this year. In order for us today to take part in the revision of the budget too, several important changes had to be made. In the budgetary agreement with the government parties, the Workers' Party has strengthened the fight against unemployment, we have strengthened the efforts for research and innovation and improved the hospitals' economy with a total framework of DKK 1.3 billion. The biggest challenge facing us in the Norwegian economy is the high unemployment rate. Despite the fact that the Norwegian economy is in a period of good growth, there have not been fewer unemployed. The sum of registered unemployed persons and persons on ordinary labour market measures has been stable since last autumn. There is also considerable uncertainty about the evolution of unemployment in the future. No later than yesterday, the Central Statistical Office estimated that the reduction in unemployment in the future will be small, perhaps only 0.5 pst. until 2006. It would then be thought that the government in the revised budget would focus on an active policy to create new jobs and an active labour market policy. But it did the opposite - cut in labour market measures and cut in research and innovation efforts. It must indicate that the Government is satisfied with a situation where about 100,000 are unemployed. Nor was the government willing to continue the additional 6000 action places created for the first six months of this year by agreement between the Labour Party and the Government Parties. The working party believes that it is important to prevent the high unemployment rate from getting stuck. There is a great danger of some being permanently excluded from the labour market, even though the economy is growing and interest rates are low. It is therefore not a good strategy to do as the Government does: sit and hope that it will take care of itself. Then we risk that many unemployed people will never come back to work. The Labour Party cannot or will not support such a policy. I am therefore pleased that in the budgetary agreement with the government parties, there was an agreement on 4000 more action places for the second half of 2004 than the government proposed. At a seminar on unemployment in the Finance Committee of the United Kingdom on 12 May this year, the Director of Labour concluded that: "Work market measures have a positive impact on the future career of participants - especially for those with specific labour market problems." Experience has shown that targeted efforts towards the unemployed and the disabled are a good social economy. The Labour Party also believes that the 42-week leave system should be maintained with today's unemployment rate, and we are pleased that the government parties agree with that. The proposal in 26 weeks, as it existed from the Government, is therefore rejected. It seemed that the representative Siv Jensen had not got this. Norway is going to be one of the world's most innovative countries, says the Government. A week later, the Prime Minister repeated it. In the work of innovation and innovation, the government says one thing, but it does something else. At the time of the presentation of the revised budget, all those involved in innovation and innovation were shocked. It is no longer more than 10 February that Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, Gabrielsen, at a large conference on Innovation 2010, said the following: "In order to secure our value creation, we need to make a common promise of innovation across the country." What Gabrielsen forgot to say was that the government had not intended to join in on that promise. On the contrary, three months later it proposed a series of cuts in the appropriations for innovation. Cut at nearly 200 million. kr would mean stoppage of a number of projects. When our traditional industry is struggling, both in terms of fishing and in terms of metal, it is particularly important to make a strong commitment to the creation of new jobs. The government's proposals would have a particularly significant impact on new entrants, on entrepreneurs and on businesses at an early stage. In the budget agreement between the Labour Party and the Government Parties now in the revised budget, these cuts are corrected. Nor will it be any of the Government's proposals for cutting the scope of the competence development programme, for nutrient research, for fisheries and aquaculture, for marine research and for fisheries research, or for value creation in agriculture and forestry. I am pleased that we have prevented these cuts in appropriations that are important for research and for innovation. In the debate on the tax communication a week ago, Right Jan Tore Sanner asserted that the Workers' Party was not concerned with creating. Today, Sanner should be pleased that the Workers' Party has prevented the fury of the efforts for innovation his own government provided. I am also pleased that there has been a majority in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal for a re-evaluation of changes to the rules in the Tax FUNN. Such a scheme today is not deducted from non-remunerated labour input. This means that many small businesses, such as individual enterprises and entrepreneurs, cannot avail themselves of the scheme. That is what the Workers' Party believes is unfortunate. I would like to mention in particular the major challenges facing Årdal and Høyanger in Sogn and Fjordane. Several hundred industrial workplaces will be closed in a few years. The downpour will have serious consequences for all affected, including employees in the aluminiumworks, their families and communities. The Labour Party believes that Hydro has a responsibility to contribute to alternative industrial development in Årdal and Høyanger, but that the State must also contribute actively. In the budgetary negotiations with the government parties in the autumn of 2003, it was therefore essential for the Government to commit itself to active efforts to create new jobs in Årdal and Høyanger. Then came the government proposal: $5 million. kr to the conversion work. It's for nothing. The agreement on the revised budget has now reached an agreement to allocate a total of 100 million. kr to a package of measures for Årdal and Høyanger. 50 million. kr is granted in 2004 and the remainder of the State budget for 2005. In the government’s report of hospitals’ finances in the budget, it appears that health business deficits in 2004 appear to be about DKK 1 billion higher than previously assumed. The working party is concerned that this could lead to the need for companies to implement structural measures that do not have good health grounds and to savings that would be at the expense of the provision of patients. Through the budget agreement, the Workers' Party ensured the health enterprises DKK billion more this year. Through this increase, we hope to avoid shifts that will offer patients poorer offers. The fact that the Government also proposed in the revised national budget this year an increase in the proportion of its health accounts was incorporated into the range of draft budgets proposed by the Bondevik II Government - never a draft budget without increasing its specificities! In the agreement with the government parties in our company, the Workers' Party has corrected this. Finally, the revised budget refers to the discharge and lifting of the Icelandic trawler Gudrun Gisladottir. Following the presentation of the revised budget, the Government has previously decided to lift the trawler, which is sunk in the Nappstraum. The trawler represents a pollution hazard in an important fishing area, and I am therefore pleased that a majority in the Stortinget are holding on to the lifting of the boat. It's important that this be clarified before the Storing separates. I therefore refer to the distributed proposal, No. Seventy-three. I include this proposal and other proposals in the vote to which the Labour Party belongs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e563	The representative Hill-Marta Solberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e568	"Never a budget proposal without increased propensity," said the representative Hill-Marta Solberg. Yes, by itself you know others. I am here with a list of all the budget proposals in which the Labour Party has proposed increased ownership - in 1995, in 1996 and 1997. And if I'm not completely wrong, it was the representative of Hill-Marta Solberg who was then the Minister of Social Affairs, who was the architect behind the proposals for increased peculiarities. I am totally incomprehensible that one would characterise NOK 6 more for a medical visit as unsocial, while the Workers' Party would like to remove the cash support for families who have confidence that the scheme will be continued and who have planned to do so. NOK 3 600 per year. a month a family who had expected to receive cash support would have retained it. It's unsocial.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e580	It is not useful to use statistics to explain that the current government has come to Stortinget with the greatest increase in ownership - and has done so in the last two years' budget proposals. Fortunately, some of these sharp increases were reduced in the budget agreement before Christmas. There is no point in using previous increases in propensity as a argument for new increases! It should have been the other way around! Just because the Government made such sharp increases in the 2003 budget, and with such sharp increases in the 2004 budget, it would be pointless to propose new increases in the balances also in the revised national budget. I am pleased that the government parties in Stortinget have helped to reverse the latest increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e589	Siv Jensen - to line up. The representative only gets one line, since we have a discussion arrangement like this. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e594	Concrete questions to the representative of Solberg: How many real unemployed do the Labour Party think it will be - as a consequence of the agreement on the revised budget? The next question: How many more unemployed do the Workers' Party think it will be, as a result of the fact that several companies will now go to dismissal instead of taking up leave - as a result of the employers' burden remaining ten days, instead of three, as it was before Christmas? Last question: When can we expect the Workers' Party to implement everything they now promise in the newspapers around - which they do not deliver through real negotiations with the government parties, now that they have the chance? Is it only when the Workers' Party might come into government? I think it might be very interesting to hear Solberg's views on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e607	Now the Progress Party does not have extensive experience in concluding budgetary agreements in Stortinget, but they do have something. I will not bother the representative, Siv Jensen, to repeat what the Progress Party did at the time. To put it this way: there were not exactly any kiosks coming out of those budget agreements. It was extremely difficult to see the relationship between the Progress Party then got to, and what they're dealing with in the main hall and in other contexts. So when the representative of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, attacks massively the agreement, the Workers' Party has concluded with the Government, I think it is quite pointless. Then it is that 4,000 action places mean that 8 000 to 10,000 more people are given the opportunity to try out labour market measures, because there is certainly a greater chance of them getting into permanent work on such an opportunity. When important innovation and start-up projects can be implemented because of a reduction in government cuts, new jobs could also be created that would otherwise not have been created.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e615	It is not to be avoided that one might be surprised at the gap between the outcome of the negotiations between the Workers' Party and the government parties and the radical profile that the Workers' Party has recently launched. What we've got on the table is a puzzled settlement that has cost the government small money, and which is now aged by what the Right Party and the Workers' Party have previously agreed on was the foremost feature of deep irresponsibility, namely using more oil crowns than the government has proposed. The Labour Party has been pleased to fix some of the rematches you won last year. There is no offensive to unemployment here, and the allocations to hospitals are not sufficient in relation to the balance requirement that the Government has complied with with the Workers' Party. Stand by the conditions, it's usually called the work movement. We've hurt to see that's what the Workers' Party has done here. Didn't the Workers' Party see itself better served to be more demanding in this round than what you've been here?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e626	Unlike the traditions of Bjørlo Lysbakken's representative, the Workers' Party has always been very concerned about getting something more, and we're actually getting something more in the revised national budget -- some important things. We have received very many positive feedback from the Workers' Party Group because we have not least managed to get rid of these pointless cuts in the work on innovation and the creation of new jobs. We have also received very many positive feedback because we have increased the effort for the unemployed, and we have received positive feedback because we have managed to get an increase of DKK billion to the hospitals. That's why I think instead of characterizing this as puzzles, SV should be adults enough, big enough, to say yes, here are some important things in place. So instead, you're choosing to define this as a puzzle. I strongly disagree with that. There are important things that have been resolved in this budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e633	First, I would like to say that it is very good that the Labour Party showed responsibility and contributed to the orderly treatment of the revised national budget. But before the agreement between the Labour Party and the Government Party was a fact, the Labour Party said to the media that they would finance their alternative revised arrangement, including. strong cash support cuts. I've been doing a lot of digging on this. I have probably asked about it before, but there is something I do not quite get to go together. Does the Labour Party seriously believe that they wanted more or less to liquidate the cash support from July 1st this year, with the consequences it would have for many families with children? I am thinking in particular of the families of young children who have an economy that goes so far and that is based to the greatest extent on the income from cash support. I hope that the representative Solberg can give me a good and educational explanation for this, because I have to admit that I have a little difficulty understanding it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e640	I think it's a little too big a challenge in 1 minute to explain all the disagreement that exists between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party in terms of the vision of cash support. We fundamentally disagree with that arrangement. We are too good arrangements for families with children in all areas. But the pointless thing about cash support is that the only condition to get this support is that you don't use a nursery place. That's what we think is a broken family policy. That is why we disagree. That is why we have also taken into account in our alternative budgets that the cash support should not be continued if our policy had been implemented. We stand by that. It's a fact. Then I'm a little surprised that the representative Sørfonn is so disappointed that we can imagine taking things from people, because he represents a party that through the government has reduced the daily allowance to people who are unemployed, without bluffing, and who have taken away from them the holiday money and reduced the rights, for example. for the unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e649	The parties initially to be the main opponents of this Chamber have now concluded a budgetary agreement on both the current year’s government budget and on the revised national budget. This should not least be a matter of great satisfaction to the Christian People's Party, because it has thus avoided further distortion of the right of the policy by keeping the Progress Party outside the budgetary agreement. In this way it is positive that the Workers' Party has also taken responsibility. But you can't help wondering how it must feel for the Workers' Party to be exposed to what we experienced during the review process. Then I think about the termination of the fisheries agreement, which was one of the Government's proposals. So the working party had negotiated an agreement to keep the agreement. Then I assume that it was because the Workers' Party believed that this was sincere and honest and was dedicated to maintaining the agreement. So we felt that about at the same time as a budget agreement was negotiated, the other put it in a different room and wrote proposals that were promoted in another committee before the Financial Committee gave its opinion. Then I have to ask the representative Solberg: do you even trust the partners you have agreed with? And why won't the Labour Party consider using the kind of agreement you used when you were in government, where you would have to negotiate before you could move on to a comma?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e663	After all, it is positive and pleasant that the representative, Mr Enoksen, also points out that the Labour Party has been involved in taking responsibility for the 2004 budget, has had an impact on what has happened in the policy. Of course, it is also the case that the Centre Party and the representative of Enoxsen are well aware of how the situation was the last harvest, when the budget was being dealt with in the Stortinget and the Advance Party quickly signed out. What has amazed me most about the Government's proposal to terminate the fisheries agreement is where to do it was for the Council of State Ludvigsen and the Government to have this agreement terminated. No one understands. The fact that we entered into an agreement that it should not be dealt with in the context of the revision is correct. That we cannot bind the Government of all the other committees because we have an agreement on the budget is also correct. But what surprised me is how to do it was to get this through in the Storting, and that absolutely, almost through a bench proposal in the Business Committee, the majority you had with the Advance Party would be used to cancel the agreement. It surprised many, not least the industry, who feel completely overwhelmed by the political majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e672	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e675	Optimism is back in business. Economic growth is getting bigger than expected. New jobs are created, and unemployment is falling. The decline in unemployment has been faster and greater than we estimated when the 2004 government budget was adopted. Yesterday, the Central Statistical Office could report that "low interest rates, low inflation and higher growth are still expected in the future in the Norwegian economy". This is positive. It means more jobs, more value-making and more well-being. This has not come about by itself. Of course, we are helped by positive international economic cycles. More moderate wage-fixing also works positively. But there is no doubt that the government's policy is working either. A tight fiscal policy has contributed to lower interest rates and a more competitive crown. Significant tax relief has improved the company's framework conditions. A stronger commitment to research, development and innovation provides an important basis for future jobs and well-being. It makes no sense when the opposition spends much of its speaking time on small adjustments in revision, when the phase after three years with our government shows that there has been a significant increase in the rate of research and development. The public sector is being modernised to better meet the challenges of the future. It's going better in Norway. Both business and people's expectations are positive. This is in clear contrast to what the opposition is trying to draw. On 23 May Jens Stoltenberg was high on the track and, in the VG Prime Minister Bondevik, gave responsibility for what the leader of the Workers' Party called the "strike turret". Stoltenberg believed that the government "has acidified the climate of working life". Now we know the phase: 2004 will be one of the quietest paychecks in ten years. And the settlements are carried out within the expected framework. The review rate in the previous budget debates during this period has been concerned about increasing unemployment and low economic growth. Now we are through the recession, faster and less painful than in previous periods of recession. It determined the Central Statistical Office in its analysis No. 1 in 2004. There they wrote: "Unemployment increased less in this recession than in other recessions since the 1970s. From this point of view, stabilisation policy has been successful through 2003. Let me remind you of the previous recession. Then unemployment increased continuously from 1986 to 1993, for seven consecutive years. Now we've come through the recession in a shorter and less painful way. It shows that it has been right for the Government to show firmness and accountability in economic policy. It has been demanding in the face of a vast majority of people who are easily gathering on spending proposals, but who are not in any area close to finding common containment proposals. It has therefore been important to reach comprehensive agreements, including in the context of the revised national budget. I am pleased that we avoided so-called slump driving to have the national budget revised in port. If we had had to invest in changing support, I am convinced that there would be a lot of noise and a danger of significantly higher use of oil revenues. The agreement with the Labour Party therefore contributes to calming and predictability of budgetary policy in 2004. As the Labour Party and the government parties agreed on the budget, it was natural that we also agreed on the revised national budget. However, we also had real negotiations with the Progress Party. I experienced these as serious, and that it was a will to agree. However, the distance between the government parties and the Progress Party was greater than the distance between the government parties and the Workers' Party. The agreement on the revised national budget has a total framework of 1.3 billion. 600 million. kr is covered in. And then we're going to have to spend 700 million. kr more of the oil fund. However, this is a smaller crack than last year, and, in our opinion, significantly less than what could have been achieved without an agreement in Stortinget. The cost of popular peace is increasing. In particular, the cost of sick pay and disability benefits is growing. The government has put in place more measures to reduce growth, but continues to increase sick leave, and more and more are being neglected. This development must be reversed. In the examination of the revised national budget, many have cried out loud and long because the Government has proposed to cover the increase in public spending by cutting other areas that have also had political priority. The review of the revised national budget has shown that neither has the opposition had any good alternative cut suggestions for those presented by the Government. If we are to create room for increased bets on transportation, school, lower taxes and other important areas, the cancers must be put in place to reduce sick leave and reduce the number of disabled people. This is not just a budgetary question. Behind all the numbers is a human being, people who want to contribute, people who want to be in work. We need everyone. We need more labour. Therefore, more and more measures need to be taken to get more people back to work. Both the Advance Party and the Workers' Party put on the autopilot when the Government proposes modest adjustments to the excess and shouts that it is unsocial. What's so unsocial about increasing the proportion of medical visits by NOK 6 or introducing a supplement for physiotherapy of NOK 25? In particular, taking into account that the ordinary share capital is kept unchanged and that it is reduced for large consumers under the roof of the 2 scheme. Has the Workers' Party forgotten its own history and repeated suggestions for increased peculiarities? In 1995, then Minister of Social Affairs Hill-Marta Solberg gave reasons for the proposal to increase the number of people with a free card from 138 000 in 1987 to 289 000. At the time, it was a problem that a total of 300,000 people were covered by the so-called free card scheme. Now this number is tripled. Today, there are 900,000 people who have a free card. A system to protect the weakest and the major consumers has become a general system that also protects people with very good advice. The debate and rhetoric have had a dimension that is not in any way proportionate to our proposals. I am surprised that the opposition is not more concerned that we still have people in our country who do not receive the necessary help and support. It seems to me that the Labour Party and the Progress Party are more concerned with protecting existing welfare systems for them with good advice than targeting welfare policies so that they can help those who need it the most. And when we are first concerned with the question of what is unsocial: the working party is standing up to increase the proportion of medical visits by NOK 6, but it itself suggests the Workers' Party, and it has been confirmed in this debate, to remove the entire cash support overnight. This means that a family that has put up their finances and family situation - perhaps took leave from their work or reduced their work in the workplace - in confidence that the scheme would continue, overnight more than NOK 3000 will be deducted. It's unsocial to my mind. Otherwise, I register that the Workers' Party has made a proposal on "Gudrun Gisladottir". Let me say that I am mildly surprised that the Labour Party is presenting this proposal. At no time has the Workers' Party discussed this with the government parties. Had the Workers' Party been busy getting money to cancel the boat, it could have been taken up in negotiations, and then we could have solved that question. A letter was sent from the Minister of Fisheries to Stortinget on 28 May, where it was informed that the boat would not be cancelled, among other things. because the Coastal Directorate was unable to recommend that the suspension be continued. In other words, the budget was well aware of this information before we entered into the agreement on the revised national budget. The working party is well-known that there is no money to lift the boat in 2004. So I assume that this proposal will be forwarded to the Government, so that one can assess the proposal in a larger context and not least make sure that money is allocated to cancellation, if that is what is most appropriate. The government is stronger and safer after this spring. The list of issues that have gone through the Storting and overall support is long. Various parties have contributed to the creation of a majority. In sum, all of the cases are drawn in the same direction. We will create new opportunities and enable Norway to make better use of the opportunities in an open world. This is why it focuses on value creation, a better school, greater freedom of choice and a modern and efficient public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e720	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e723	We have noticed that in this revised budget that has now been submitted and which we have to deal with today, the Government chose to go directly into confrontation with the Storting on several issues on which it has suffered defeat. It was particularly evident that they had a fundamental attack on most of the scheme in terms of innovation and combating unemployment. Fortunately, the government parties understood this and entered into negotiations. The overall cut presented in Innovation Norway was among others. on approx. 165 million. kr. Now we have come out with a budget that is strengthened by approx. 300,000 million. kr. So the government parties and the government say that it is important to get Norway as the world's most innovative country, and that there is a need for action here. Jan Tore Sanner said in his statement that optimism is back in business, and that there are only minor adjustments that have been made in this revised budget. Then I asked Jan Tore Sanner: were there small adjustments when we now got Innovation Norway in place, and all the efforts to combat unemployment? And can we count on it being introduced into the main budget in October for the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e731	The President is uncertain, but would Jan Tore Sanner have made a suggestion?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e734	I can do it for sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e739	Then the representative Jan Tore Sanner mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e742	Thank you. It is a fact that economic growth in Norway has taken a considerable interest. It is a fact that unemployment is now falling more than what we assumed when we agreed with the Labour Party on a budget agreement for 2004. And it's a fact that the strong increase in the cost side of popular fear has to be covered. We've been open all the way to discuss other cut suggestions, but we haven't got a lot of serious cut suggestions on the table from the opposition. I would also like to point out that there is a need to raise one's eye and not only to look at budget lines in the short term in May 2004 - June 2004, when the fact is that, over the three years of the centre-right government, research and development efforts have increased considerably. The plan for stepping up research is being followed, and if we also add what is done under the SkattenFUNN scheme, there has been a significant increase in research and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e749	I again find that the Right has a rather remarkable relationship with this with the use of so-called oil money. When the Progress Party in the 2004 State Budget proposed 5 billion more to include: tax- and tax-free, the Right argued that this would harm the Norwegian economy, while when we come to revision, Right uses more oil money than this. Then it is positive for the Norwegian economy. The birth rate is still the same, one should have a tight fiscal policy, and one should have a tight budget. The last year's figures show that the loan growth for private households has been $117 billion. If we look at wage developments, this is at least $70 billion more than the wage-to-debt ratio. Then my question to the representative Sanner is: how does it turn out that when the Progress Party wants to spend an extra 5 billion, this damage the Norwegian economy, while when households increase debt by 70 billion - which goes to consumption - is this positive for the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e758	There are several reasons why the Right believes that we should be careful with the use of oil money. The main reason is that oil money is tomorrow's pensions. We are under the responsibility of the administrator, and that not one generation should clear up all of the oil wealth. We are concerned that it should be managed, and that it should also be a pleasure for those who come after us. Secondly, we are committed to a firm and responsible economic policy. I had hoped that Gjermund Hagesetter had noticed that that policy has produced results, namely that the firmness of economic policy has contributed to lower interest rates, has contributed to a more competitive krone price, which in turn has contributed to more optimism in business. We are not involved in experimenting with economic policy. If it is that the Progress Party has ambitions to come into closer cooperation with the government parties, they should think through that side of their policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e765	The discussion of tight fiscal policies, firmness, accountability and a number of other expressions used by the representative Sanner undoubtedly gets a comics cut over when you see what the Government has done over the last year. First, a budget of NOK 16.5 billion was spent more on oil money than the rule of action required, then added NOK 4.5 billion that was not covered in the ordinary revision, and at the top of all, 700 million was spent. more now than you've been able to cover - 21.7 million. Total NOK We from SV have always thought that some flexible use of oil money makes sense. That means we've had tighter budgets than the government many times, and sometimes we've had a more expansive budget, when it's necessary. But I have to say that the reason for this was that it was worse last year. If we hadn't done this, Stortinget would probably have cracked relative to this. Is that what is called firmness, accountability, budgetary policy? Isn't this just a little bit too comical?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e772	It's firmness, and it's accountability. The representative Djupedal can only blow himself up as much as he wants, but I think the realities speak for themselves in many ways. We can look at the results of the government's policy, precisely the fact that a firm and responsible economic policy has been pursued, which has contributed to lower interest rates not only for business but also for individuals, and has contributed to a more competitive krone price. It's not like we're bragging about spending 700 million. It is a fact and a realistic finding that if we had not obtained this agreement, the representative Øystein Djupedal, together with the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, would unite the majority on many areas of expenditure which we have already seen during this debate, in the area of health and fully guaranteed in other areas. One would gather to increase public expenditure, without being able to cover it at the same time. That's why there's a realistic finding of firmness in our line, that we were looking for an agreement rather than letting it scour and go into the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e779	With reference to a previous exchange of lines here in which Sanner was involved, it may be tempting to say: not a Right Budget without anti-business proposals. So also this time, on a total of nearly 200 million. kr. At a time when research, development and internationalisation are more important than ever, at a time when we have just flagged Innovation Norway as a long-term investment, the first thing to face is cut. At a time when the shipbuilding and supply industries are in difficulty, it is therefore a change in the rules of leave, to the detriment of both workers and employers, the first thing to meet. In view of this, there is simply reason to ask the representative Sanner and Right: are they relieved that the reconciliation with the Workers' Party has helped to reverse at least some of the worst cuts to the industry to which the Right in the Government contributed?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e786	The representative, Marit Arnstad, should from time to time raise his eye on the budgetary papers and see how things are going in the business world. The reality is that optimism is coming back, that economic growth has picked up, that unemployment has begun to decline. It is a fact that research and development and innovation efforts have increased considerably over these three years. Let me just mention that the appropriations for research and development have increased over these three years by almost NOK 3 billion. The FUNN tax scheme has contributed to DKK 4 billion in tax credits by investing in research and development. Only in 2004 did the TaxFUNN scheme contribute €8 billion more to business research, and the research fund has increased from €10 billion to €32.8 billion. If you sometimes look a little bit at the budgetary papers and see what it actually is, and how the lines have been over these years, you will see that there is both an active industrial policy and an economic policy that brings positive results.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e793	More workspaces are required. There's too much unemployment in Norway. Minister of Industry Gabrielsen traveled land and beach around and encouraged innovation and innovation, and the rest of us nikka, because it was necessary in a situation where unemployment increased. Then came the revised national budget, and cut came right there as the Minister of Industry had said it was necessary to increase. We got e-mails by e-mail, including from people in the Right, where it said they were hoping for a reasonable opposition that could fix all of these cuts that Right had been on. Today, Jan Tore Sanner has answered the same question to all the questions that have been asked him, so I try another twist. And then I ask, "Meiner, Jan Tore Sanner, that the 200 million they cut wasn't necessary, that there wasn't a need for money for innovation, because it probably wasn't in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e805	The representative of Ranveig Frøiland should not be in doubt that I believe that the whole of our draft budget is better than the whole of the draft budget for the agreement with the Workers' Party. I am also a little surprised that the issue of innovation and innovation in business is one-sidedly linked to government budget appropriations. We have recently presented a plan for innovation in Norway, which presents a series of proposals to make Norway one of the world’s most innovative countries. There is, of course, a focus on innovation in public budgets as a single instrument, but only one of the very many instruments. I think you should, as I've also been in a lot of other posts, see what's going on in the business world, where optimism is coming back. But at the same time, I would like to say that we've never hidden the fact that we've been open to looking at other cutting suggestions, other priorities that would make us even more committed to research and development and innovation. We've been open all along. But we haven't had those options on the table. The only proposal that has been put forward is cut into the cash support. We believe that it is unsocial to take from families who have based their family situation and finances on receiving cash support. We believe that would be a wrong proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e812	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e815	Let me start with what in a longer historical perspective is the only thing that is going to be remembered from today's debate and from today's attitude. It's that we finally get an ethical code for the oil fund. Let me start with this, because this is a historic decision. So it's the first time a state is subject to its investment an ethical code, which means that the state has both a moral and ethical responsibility for the way you place your money. This has been possible because, fortunately, the majority of the population, originally against the will of the Government, reduced a sample, the Graver Committee, which concluded that it was not only possible but also desirable that the State had that kind of legislation for its investments. It's been a long fight today, crowned with victory. It's been a lot of harelas. Different finance ministers from several parties, not least the current Minister of Finance, have been intriguing about this and felt that this was impossible. But not only was it possible, it was even desirable. What made us do this, after this long fight, was that SV revealed that the oil fund invested in landmines, in a company in Singapore. At that time Norway had just launched the big campaign to get an international ban on landmines. We had given the peace prize to Jody Williams. We were very proud that the international community had finally received an international convention that prohibited a bestial and cruel weapon as landmines. Then it turned out that our own savings were invested in a company that produced this weapon, which is banned under the UN Convention. Only then did the snowball start rolling so far, and several saw that it might be necessary to think through this with the ethics one more time. So a process started that made it possible at some point to reduce this sample led by Professor Graver, who concluded the historical, that it was both desirable and possible. This means that for the first time it will now be possible to establish a link between what is Norway's foreign policy and the way we deal with our great wealth. Let me just give you one example: the Prime Minister has a commendable commitment to the military dictatorship in Burma. He has repeatedly said that as individuals we should not invest in companies that invest money in something that supports the military regime in Burma. At the same time, the oil fund, i.e. the state's own money, has investments in a number of companies that invest in the same country. Of course, this dual morality is not possible over time, namely that the state’s money undermines what is official Norwegian foreign policy. This will end after today's decision. This means that it will be possible, in any case in any field, to establish a link between the foreign policy of the State and the investment portfolio or the investment profile of the oil fund. This can in many ways set a standard that can become historic, because it will create a dynamic within capitalism, that is, an ethical dynamic that will allow others to enter into this gradually. If the Norwegian state with its billion dollars can do this, why can't Statoil do that? Why can't Hydro do that? Why can't Telenor do that? Why can't German, American, English and Danish companies do that? After all, it's only when the big money comes on the move that from an ethical point of view this becomes problematic in the boardrooms of the large multinational companies in which the oil fund has invested. We believe that today's decisions will in many ways set the standard for how to deal with money in other Norwegian companies in a few years' time, and perhaps over time also in foreign companies, where ethics becomes the criterion for what you choose to do in the boardroom. The danger of being taken with the pants down by a growing international opinion, by a wake-up press, by politicians or by NGOs who can hang out the company and say, look, this company is what we invest our savings in. That's not the point, we don't want these blood money! That's the dynamics that we've hopefully joined in today. The experience also shows that ethics and the store are related. There is no reason to believe that the state will lose money on having an ethical code. But if so, the state actually lost money not to invest in a company, then I think the whole Norwegian people would say, "Thank you." That blood money we don't want! We don't want our pension money and our oil money invested in companies that don't have ethical behaviour. Let me also say - it has a comics cut over it - that today we are proposing that tobacco should also be included in this. We have a government that has made it a big deal to fight tobacco, and has received the support of the Storting. Then it's almost funny that today's Christian People's Party will vote against a proposal that tobacco should be included in what the oil fund should not invest in. We're going to get right in this as well. SV is going to win this. The tobacco industry is going to be out of this in a few years. We are proposing this today. We know we're downcast, and the Christian People's Party is taken with their pants down-- but leave it alone. We come back to this, and they will be allowed to correct their sin at the next crossroads. In the revised budget, we have three main priorities. One is the fight against unemployment, the other is the hospital economy, and the third is the municipal economy. I noticed that Jan Tore Sanner boasted very much rather than how much better things were going on in business, but it must well be considered to be a quote when he then fails to take one sentence from the SSB, which is about unemployment, where it says that "the improvement in the labour market is very modest." So we can imagine that in the whole period up to 2007, we're going to have high unemployment - over 100,000. This means that as long as you think that the market will create jobs alone and that you will not have an active state, you will have a high unemployment rate. What we from SV want is for the state to take an active responsibility to help more people use their labour force for their own benefit and for the benefit of the community. Heidi Grande Røys will come back with additional comments on the SV employment package in his article. But the perspective must always be this: it is we who are sitting here, who must try to get free hands at work, because it turns out that the market alone will not make it. SV has proposed approx. One billion more to the hospitals. We are pleased to note that in the budget agreement there are 0.5 billion, but we are very surprised that the budgetary parties have not seen this with the balance sheet requirement. It is the balance sheet requirement that, at the end of the year, will mean that we will also have holiday-bound hospitals, and this year too will experience major cuts in the hospital sector. This means that hospitals are required to cover this large accumulated deficit by 2006 and that the same situation as last year will also be experienced this year. I am very surprised that the Workers' Party has not seen this and accepted it. The large debt burden on health businesses will be a major problem and will necessarily go beyond patient treatment. We are also surprised that there is no more money for the municipalities in this budget. And the reason for that is the following -- given the premise that the Stortinget last autumn, when we adopted the ordinary budget, said that the municipalities would have a tax entrance that was part of the municipal income: the tax entrance has become significantly lower. It's actually going to be billions of dollars less than what was supposed to be. But we in Stortinget constantly assign new tasks to the municipalities. We impose and expect municipalities to do the tasks for the benefit of the population, with which we are constantly in dialogue. Therefore, it is particularly important to note that there is not added one extra kroner to build well-being in Norwegian municipalities, either in the budget agreement or in the original government proposal. This means that the rest of this year will be very demanding in Norwegian municipalities. We will again face a situation where the municipalities will come to Stortinget to the autumn and say: Look, we simply don't have money for all the legal tasks that Stortinget asks us to do. All of this has to be done within a tighter budget than the government has provided. It might be a bit fun for the government to register it. We think it's right to have a tight fiscal policy now, simply because it's not the private consumption we want to stimulate. We want to stimulate common consumption - the common consumption that will build well-being. The nursery roommates have found each other in this setting with an important note and a reference to the department of what we expect it to come back to the harvest. Unfortunately, the government parties have now fallen off. The government parties took part in the large nursery arrangement, albeit reluctantly. Now the classic nursery schoolmates have joined forces again to order the Government to return to the autumn budget with a detailed review of the nursery arrangement. Kindergarten is an outstanding success, but we're only halfway. The kindergarten agreement has given new optimism in the kindergarten sector. This means that many people now have lower parental payments, and we have an extension in progress, albeit not as quickly as we had hoped. This is therefore the message from the majority of the population to the government: we have to move on with kindergarten development. The kindergarten reform is just halfway around the corner. We are not yet on target, and that means that the progress report and new measures may have to be included in the State budget for the autumn. The budgetary agreement that was reached was very modest, albeit in the right direction. It is largely about the creation of non-social cuts as proposed by the Government. We are pleased with the direction in which the budget agreement went, but I must probably let myself say that it was very modest things. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that SV has in the setting, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e849	The representative of Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e854	I thought Djupedal was a visionary in the mention of the ethical guidelines of the oil fund, but when the budgetary agreement was ahead, he used the term "light", and now it was "declared". If you choose to take a positive look at this, and at the same time use some football language now in these EM times, I get the impression that SV, and so far also the Progress Party, is very much a member of the Labour Party in the fight against the government party. But the expectations -- and the hope -- are probably so big that we're going to get the most fucked up that the saying didn't get bigger, instead of getting credit for all of the measures we're going to have. We have achieved a strengthening of Aetat with 4,000 jobs, which includes: SV has been very busy in Document No. The 8th proposal on measures to combat unemployment. We've strengthened the hospital sector by 500 million. kr, and we have managed to reverse most of the cut on everything that has to do with innovation, business development and innovation. If this is small, do I have to ask the representative of Djupedal - or is it the form of expression that might make it a little small?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e863	Clearly, we have a government that has no ambitions on behalf of the community. We have a government that has as its main policy "hands off" and not "hands on". It's clear that it means that things jump on. The settlement entered into by the Workers' Party is a settlement that goes in the right direction. We've given credit for that. But I think that in my years in Stortinget there has not been a more modest agreement on an economic scale, and the content is largely about correcting the victories that the Workers' Party won in the ordinary budgetary procedure. Then the government comes and cuts into it, and then the Workers' Party gets some of the money back. Honor be the Workers' Party for it. But it's hard to say that this was something other than puzzled, undeclared or small. But it's clear that I'm registering, and it's supposed to be in some way to the Workers' Party, that they're now revising a budget they themselves have entered into, and they've got a government that has a fundamentally different approach to the community, to accept some additions in important areas. That's what they're supposed to have. But it is clear that this government has an agenda that is very different from what the Workers' Party and SV have. Rudihagen is right in saying, hopefully, that together we should be able to do something far better than what the Workers' Party has done together with the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e872	An active country is required to solve the employment problem, says the representative, Djupedal. But it is still likely that to reduce unemployment, new jobs will have to be created. There's hardly any disagreement about that. The government's policy is just about that, among other things. by providing significant tax relief to business. However, the representative, Mr Djupedal, has said both in the case of tax reform and later that tax relief does not matter for value creation. On the contrary, in the draft budget for this year, taxes will be raised by NOK 3.4 billion. My question to the representative, Mr Djupedal, is then just to be helped on the way to understanding: why is it better for the unemployed who need new jobs that business is subject to additional burdens in terms of significant tax increases, as the SV methodically and regularly advocates, than that the tax costs for Norwegian business are reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e879	The representative Fleet may not have read our alternative budget very carefully, because he would then see that business is getting relief from SV. We propose a number of major business improvements, such as: improves the possibility of depreciation and lower the employer’s contribution. But we actually mean, and I think that much of the business community will also agree, that there are many framework conditions that are more important than just taxes alone. The government has a one-track focus: only we get low enough taxes, and business is probably content. But business is never satisfied with low taxes. Historically, the nations that have built up a social contract between business, state and citizen are also the most advanced in developing a robust and good business. The point is that we're the best ones to emphasize just this. This is a contract where business obviously has to contribute, as we have to contribute, to building kindergartens and schools - and all these are the things business also gets back. That is why we are surprised to see, for example, that there is a need for action. in this budget, cutting research and cutting innovation, which is one of the countries that need to contribute to boosting business growth and to get out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e886	SV has been good at profiling itself as the railway party, and has been less enthusiastic about road construction. The progress party has a completely different priority, but enough about it. Also in today's setting, the SV has several proposals on rail, especially in the case of freight traffic. It is therefore a little surprising that SV accepts the large increase in the road tax for the Gardermoban. The price model for the Flytrain shows that this increase will reduce the number of passengers by 175 000 per. years. The increase in the fee goes far beyond what the Railway Agency itself has requested, and it is also granted retrospectively. The progress part goes against parts of the increase, the center part goes against the whole, while the SV accepts it. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e893	In times of high unemployment and many available hands, it is important to develop infrastructure in a country. We're going to bet massively on the railroad. Railways have been neglected for many, many years. That means that we have a railway that is not good enough or competitive enough, not because the many people who work in the railway do not want it to be good, but simply because the material is too bad, the railway is too bad -- it's simply neglect over many years that makes us fail to get up the railway as an alternative, too many, to car traffic. In our alternative budget, we find new jobs for large investments in the railway sector to improve the infrastructure of this collective resource, and also to get out of work. So we have over 10,000 vacant construction workers in Norway who are just standing there wondering, why in heaven's name can't anyone just give me a job? That's what we're trying to do. That means that this has been our focus. We've heard what they're saying from the Fly train, that this is probably going to lead to $10 at an increased ticket price. We believe that it would have been a more appropriate effort in the railway sector to invest in building up the infrastructure than to go to the ticket price on the Fly train.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e900	Now it is that SV disagrees fundamentally with the cash support and therefore proposes to remove the cash support overnight, from 1 August. SV knows very well that among the cash beneficiaries there are students, there are single parents, there are families with a different background, who come from other countries, there are low income groups in Flange. We know that cash support is socially equalising. And so does SV. Likewise, they suggest from one month to the other not to take hundreds of patches, but to take thousands of copies from these little children's families. Taking over NOK 3 500 a month from a family is much more dramatic than taking a few hundred patches on a gift card. Is it such that SV can take away from these groups without blinking, because SV is fundamentally disagreeable with the device on the support? And is it that it is much more important to help the families of young children, whether they have low or high incomes, in the case of kindergartens, than to help those who have a tight economy and young children, and who choose cash support? Is it that SV wants to help just on their own premises?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e908	I am sorry that the government parties in this setting have chosen not to participate in the large-scale bet on kindergartens to which SV took the initiative. After extensive negotiations last year, they joined, fortunately, so that means that there was initially a unanimous growth behind the bet on kindergartens. Now the government is jumping off, and I'm sorry for that. This means that once again this will be the Stortinge reform, and that it is the Stortinge that provides for this large-scale investment in kindergartens that SV has invested in. That's our main priority. And it should not surprise anyone that SV is against the cash support. All the experience with the cash support suggests that the goals that had been set have not been achieved, namely more equal association with the children by giving one of the parents the opportunity and the economy to be at home. We are against the cash support, we believe it should be liquidated. In this revised budget, we propose again - as we have proposed a number of times before, and as the Labour Party also proposes - that this money should go to other parts of the budget than to cash support. That means that we want to move forward on that path, which the majority of people have gone into, and on which the government agreed: what we need now is to expand kindergartens to all those who need it, at an affordable price.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e915	In 2003, there were 667 million. SEK in gifts to non-governmental organisations deducted from tax returns of 373 000. That's a big increase from the 10 million. kr, which was given with the old deduction limit. It shows that tax incentives work. The centre party was positive to that extension, SV was negative. In 2003, far more organisations were authorised to receive such gifts, including: can now receive such gifts from all sports teams and from all music clubs. Now there is the struggle to approve gifts with tax deductions to local teams without nationwide superstructures, and the government will limit the expansion to layers of religion and life views as a field of work. The centre party suggests removing this constraint. Why will SV not contribute to making voluntary work on the local level a little easier?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e926	Like a lot of people, I -- and my family -- help a lot of teams and organisations through voluntary contributions. This I do because I think it's valuable, and because they're doing a valuable job that I want to support. I think it is positive to contribute to teams and organisations etc. you want to give money to, but I have never really understood why the state should sponsor or subsidize it. The fact that you want to contribute or participate in the sport or give money to Amnesty is unique. But this connection, that giving money should be tax-motivated - as the scheme is basically - that there should be tax motivation at the bottom, I find it difficult to understand and find it difficult to accept. Spending money on non-governmental organisations is very good. This item has been significantly increased by changing the key key grant, which means that voluntary teams and organisations are now given a completely different financial support option than before. This is an objective way of allocating money. The tax model will result in a total distortion of who actually receives money, and who does not receive money, whichever is the best to collect. And I also think Morten Lund will agree that it's not the criterion for who's going to get this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e933	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e936	Today, when the revised national budget is adopted, we are going to leave behind another stage in the exercise of the government of Bondevik II's economic policy. The main thrust of the government’s revised proposal was the fight for jobs and the strengthening of welfare, especially in the health sector. Through a clean agreement with the Workers' Party, these main leads are confirmed and can be put to life. The expression or name of the revised national budget is probably not what immediately exacerbates the strong ovations. The revised national budget shall be primarily necessary adjustments to the adopted budget. However, it does not prevent the decisions taken in the review from being important to many individuals, groups and enterprises. The large expenditure growth in social security schemes has made the treatment of revised additional challenges. Nevertheless, there is room for important priorities. The health sector and the care sector are strengthened. The police have received over 100 million dollars. fresh crowns. In the Christian People's Party, we are glad that the gift-delivery system is expanded, so that trust societies without national scope and corresponding non-religious life-vision organisations come under the scheme. One of the main objectives of the Government is that economic policy should provide the basis for new growth, in order to maintain existing jobs and create new ones. This is one of the things. made through a budget based on both lower interest rates and reduced interest rates. The treatment of the revised national budget today is a new step towards passing on what has already been achieved through this policy line. We now see that several parts of the business are reporting on optimism and want to add more. The unemployment rate seems to be almost half a percent lower than the national budget for 2004. Past experience shows that, at the beginning of an upturn in economic activity, business is careful to attract people. But as the boom continues to mount, the growth in employment increases. The Christian People’s Party is pleased that we found good solutions with the Workers’ Party. The agreement with the Workers' Party was tidy, and has brought peace to the economy - tidy because the 2004 budget is also settled by an agreement with the Labour Party, and calm because it gives an important signal of stability in economic policy. Comic books can sometimes give you a good look at your life. In the series "Tommy and Tiger," Tommy says that "a good compromise makes everyone equally dissatisfied." Although this is well said and there is enough truth in the house, I would strongly argue that the agreement on the revised national budget between the government party and the Labour Party is a well-balanced agreement. It is an agreement that takes care of the soundness of the economy, at the same time as it contains important individual measures in the fields of employment, health, research and innovation. The State Petroleum Fund is, and will be, an important part of the financing of the Norwegian welfare state. At the end of the year, the amount of the fund will be around NOK 1000 billion, and we know that the fund will grow further in the years to come. The Petroleum Fund is also large in an international context. There is a special responsibility in the case of management. The placement of funds abroad may be involved in deportations and actions that are both morally and ethically reprehensible, or to say so in a more popular way: we may risk our well-being becoming part of others' exclusions. It is therefore very important that the Government now introduce ethical guidelines for the Petroleum Fund. This is unique in a world-class hanging. Through filtering, extraction mechanisms and ownership exercises, effective tools are also provided to meet ethical guidelines. Ethical guidelines for the Petroleum Fund are an important saying for all those who are concerned with joint management and a more fair value. The present proposal for the revised national budget for 2004 is a continuation of the government’s economic policy for jobs, for well-being and for renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e962	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e965	The Christian People's Party was sluggish in the fall when the government party concluded a budget agreement with the Workers' Party, because then there was more money for value creation, for getting more people to work, for health -- and then it prevented some unsocial cuts. Then came the revised budget, and the finance minister and government cut off just those areas that we got multiples for in the fall with the Christian People's Party. Jan Tore Sanner just confirmed that it was a willful development to cut into these posts. But by means of the agreement that the Labour Party and the Government Party have now concluded in ours, we are able to rectify these distortions when it comes to value creation, work and health, which is absolutely necessary. I felt enough that the Christian People's Party and Sørfonn were pleased with this, and I hear here that there are different assessments in the Government and government parties of whether these things are important. But is it that the revised budget has been better and the Christian People's Party is closing down after this conciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e977	The goal of closure is not always so good to have clear parameters, but in the Christian People's Party we are very pleased that we have a budget agreement that allows the Government to continue its policy of innovation, innovation, employment and good welfare. A risk-sealing process in Stortinget in connection with the revised national budget would have created a completely different uncertainty. Setting this background is a shame. Then I want to make it clear that there is no basis for claiming that the rights of research and development etc. has gone down. We're very tall. We're about on the escarpment plan. During our government period, we have increased this by billions, in addition to the fact that the TaxFUNN scheme is particularly successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e984	The representative of Sørfonn talks eagerly about the good solutions, which he says the government party and the Labour Party have come up with. I would like to point out one of these solutions that they have come up with, an increase in the legal fee from NOK 740 to NOK 845. So there's an increase of 14 pst. This will also give almost 100 million dollars. kr more to the country. Then it is interesting to look at who has to pay this bill. In fact, a very large part of this bill is paid by those who have financial difficulties. If e.g. a claim for money of NOK 5 500 leads to a coercion hall, this will lead to the state paying for approx. 16 000 kroner - an increase of 2 000 kroner, which will be an extra tax for those who can afford it badly. Then my question is: Do you think the representative Sørfonn is right that it is poor Norway who pays the bill for the ageing of the national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e993	It's not right that poor Norway is paying the bill, because no government has done so much to fight poverty, both at home and outside, as is our government. When the Government proposes an increase, including The legal fee is linked to the fact that a person is required to obtain a cover for various welfare measures and other benefits that must be found in the budget. Here I just have to realize that the government party, including the Christian People's Party, and the Progress Party is fundamentally unconvinced. The Progress Party solves all the problems of spending more money from the oil fund, etc., while we have a completely different approach to this. We believe and also have professional evidence that this would lead to our economy being destroyed, injured. Therefore, we must intervene from time to time for a surcharge.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1001	The Christian People's Party's relationship to ethical guidelines for the oil fund has been a study of double communication for many years. They were therefore opposed to the position in which the Committee on Finance decided that it should be set up. Then you turned around in the hall, obviously because it was too embarrassing, but you wouldn't have turned around if it wasn't already a majority initially. There were many occasions earlier to try to be part of this, but they chose not to be, probably a little counterproductive, because it was the Right who had the power, and who decided that it was not allowed to be on. But today, fortunately, we have adopted this kind of ethical code. What's interesting to note then is that you choose not to join tobacco in this -- tobacco, which the Christian People's Party has had as its brand-new, on which they've used so much force -- they've even got the Storting to adopt the most extensive smoking law in the world. Nevertheless, it is still a good thing that we invest over NOK 4 billion in the major international tobacco companies, which are very easy to withdraw from, very easy to manage. So the Christian People's Party once again chooses to have the same double moral attitude to this that you've had from day one.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1008	There is considerable empirical evidence that when someone has worked out a good solution, many people join in the process to take credit for what has happened, without having contributed so much sinfully and taking responsibility. Øystein Djupedal and SV are no exception in this way, rather on the contrary. When ethical guidelines apply to the Petroleum Fund and tobacco, the representative Djupedal knows that the Bondevik I government had a proposal on this where the government party and SV were in charge and were down in the Stortinget. The Graver Selection has assessed tobacco in relation to the ethical guidelines. They have assessed for and against and have concluded that in this round they would not propose it. This has been followed up by the Government. However, with the mechanisms in both extraction and filtration, etc., there is nothing to prevent an unethical, immoral investment in the tobacco industry from falling within there, whether it be filtration or extraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1015	There is a precarious need for a better maintenance of many churches. The municipalities are responsible, and the important wonder is that the municipalities got a circular with a reminder of exactly that. There is no lack of knowledge and will, there is a lack of means that makes the situation so. In this setting, the central part proposes a loan arrangement for the refurbishment of church buildings, for the first time of 500 million. kr, according to the same model as the loan scheme for school buildings with which so far there is positive experience. Some in the Christian People's Party have the order to demolish churches. Is that the general attitude of the Christian People's Party? Or are they pushing this question, as the Council of State is currently doing? Can the Christian People’s Party plan to follow up a proposal for a loan arrangement to get something done and ensure better maintenance?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1024	The representative Meltveit Kleppa points to a very current problem, which many people have come close to life. There may not be any simple solutions to this. A loan arrangement may be one solution. I see it as an attempt to be fun and not serious, when someone was talking about tearing up churches. I think that debate, and that's a bit of a liberal interpretation, to put it that way, of what was said. The reality is that we don't have too many churches, but the places can probably be discussed where they are. How to take care of the churches, which are both cultural treasures and God's houses, and keep them in an equally defensive way, is a challenge that the Government and the Council of State are clearly going to see closer. But I can't say here and now that this is going to be solved that way or that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1033	The revised national budget is also a prelude to next year's budget. The Labour Party has already made it clear that we want to improve school provision, expand care for the elderly and strengthen health care. That is why we want to strengthen the economy of the local government sector. The government is warning the opposite. They choose the opposite, a scheme that will provide less schooling and poorer care for the elderly. The government chooses tax-free rather than welfare. Does the representative Sørfonn believe it is reasonable that the Government is deliberately proposing to weaken the provision of welfare in these areas and to make schoolchildren and the elderly pay for tax relief? Or does he agree with the leader of his party in Troms, Gerd Kristiansen, who says: "The moral right thing must be to cut out the suggestions that seek to satisfy the private wallets. Rather, build up the public welfare goods."What does Sørfönn mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1047	No, of course, our government is not proposing to weaken the provision of welfare, and all political action shows the opposite. This is precisely why the local government sector has received a significant boost under our government. We know that for the current year the tax estimate fails, but at the same time we know that the estimate of the price increase for municipal service provision, the so-called deflator, has been reduced by a percentage point to 3 p.p., as a result of lower wage growth in 2004. We also know that the estimated revenue growth for the local government sector in 2004 is the highest since 1997, as a result of good budgetary procedures. Although we see that the local government sector needs additional resources, there is no basis for saying that one has not spent anything on this sector. On the contrary, no government has done more for the local government than for ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1054	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1057	The country needs a new, business-friendly majority government. County rapporteur Bergsaker in Rogaland represents Right. According to Stavanger Aftenblad, he was the fillerist of the government's powerful innovation coup in the county council. He says that "the government's proposal can remind us of a short-term need for budget coverage that is solved at the expense of what we are going to live on in the decades ahead". A striking description that summarizes a great many concerned contributions to the Financial Committee! That's the way it's been all along during this government. Passive and anti-business economic policies have a price tag that gradually becomes very clear. In this round, it has increased by DKK 4.5 billion in terms of increased social security costs and tax losses. As if those billions could have been actively used to get people into lasting and valuable work. It's a waste not to follow such a line! How much does the bill have to be before the Government teaches? The 2004 budget of the Centre Party would provide the basis for 17 000 annual works in increased employment, 6 000 annual works in schools and care, 1000 in the road sector, 4000 in construction and 6 000 in the private sector. We spent NOK 3.7 billion in addition to the government's budget balance. Because the government refuses to follow such an employment line, it now pays off with $4.5 billion of oil crowns to cover losses, plus an increase in pros and cons, and important appropriations are cut. The budget partners have agreed that the situation requires the use of an additional 700 million oil, a total of 5.2 billion kr more than what was the absolute maximum five months ago - 1.5 billion kr more than the balance sheet of the Centre Party, which was called totally irresponsible. Where are the unsolved tasks and opportunities for value creation that can give people quick work? What losses can we experience if we do not have an active industrial policy? The centre party has thought of those lines in this draft budget as well. We haven't forgotten this winter's debate about churches that are falling due, and we want a loan arrangement similar to the one we have for school construction. We see that the municipal sector has a very gap between tasks and the economy. The gap has increased due to the tax failure. We're going to give 700 million. kr to compensate for that loss. With the government's plans for the sector, many people who work in school and care for the elderly may have to be dismissed. In line with the Government’s proposals, the Centre Party is increasing its investment in research, industrial development and action jobs by 1680 million. kr. This is NOK 1.3 billion more than in the agreement entered into. We're going to spend 580 million. SEK on road investments and 500 million. kr to a district loan scheme. SND helped create five new jobs for every million they got. Our business activity also includes a reduction in the company's fee to the Food Safety Authority of 100 million. kr. It makes no sense for us to be at the top of Europe in such a fee. We had expected to get support for this from among others. The working party. In the newspaper Meat Industry this winter, the party’s nutritionist spokeswoman Aud Gaundal is quoted: "I hope and believe that the treatment of the revised national budget in May will contribute to a return of around 100 million. as this industry lost in the budgetary agreement last year." As you know, the Labour Party has participated in the two budgetary agreements in question. Permitting rules must be longer than six months. We want 42 weeks and three days' pay as a permanent arrangement. The Centre Party is adding DKK 1 billion to health businesses and training centres, as promised by a large majority on the day the revised national budget was presented. It was actually a claim from the entire opposition that day. The growth of the Norwegian economy is now the same as in the heyday of the central government. But the growth is consumption driven and gives few new jobs. The statistics show reduced investment in industry. Households' purchasing power is growing a lot: plus 7 billion kroner due to lower interest rates and 110 billion dollars due to increased loans in the last year. The sale of cars is record high. Prices of dwellings and cabins are record high. The government has such poor advice that the government cuts in the allocations for the safety training of fishermen and to market Norwegian travel life goals abroad. It's because its main goal is to give even more private purchasing power through tax laws. The centre party believes that this is a policy that will rapidly reduce Norwegian production and give us a permanent increase in unemployment. The opportunities to develop new jobs are getting worse. This policy does not guarantee what we will live on in the next decades. It is not in this way that future pensions are best guaranteed! I'm going to put forward a proposal for the Center Party. I also asked to have a bug fixed in Innst. S. No 250. On page 232, column two at the bottom, the centre part out of the eight last lines of the note, but be on the next page of the proposal. It's about the Tau connection in Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1099	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to. The correction in the suspension is hereby recorded. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1106	I listened with interest to Morten Lund's contributions and the description of the Central Party's budget, for that budget is quite expansive. But I notice certain comments that Morten Lund has written in the setting. The centre party fears that a low interest rate appears to be continuing, and that can lead to, writes the Center Party, a strong stimulus in the Norwegian economy. I don't think that matches what Morten Lund said in his post. It is also stated in the comments of the Committee of the Parties that the Norwegian labour market shows signs of hysteresis effects. It's a name I must have a deeper explanation for. Is it considered that there are hysteresis effects that the Center Party is putting into its budget now when they're going to increase it with as many jobs as they expect?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1111	The concern of the Labour Party for the expansiveness of our budget, I am a little sorry for it. It's a shame that we couldn't agree that right now, these years after the new government managed to run the business in Norway almost in the ditch, over public budgets, we would be able to contribute a few billion more and with faith in stimulating and helping those who can create new jobs with state support, so that SND, or Innovation Norway, as it is now called, can say yes instead of no. It helps a little bit, what the Workers' Party has done, but it doesn't help enough, and we now have every experience for that. The low level of interest rates has not led companies in Norway to invest any more. Investments have fallen dramatically in 2002 and 2003, and have not yet started to grow. We should be worried about that. Something more than an expansive monetary policy is needed to get the machinery going again. We can see that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1119	The representative Lund said something interesting at the beginning of his article. He said Norway needs a new and more entrepreneurial government. Now there's a government option that's been going on lately. My question is: how does the representative Lund see that a government with a strong SV will be able to pursue a more entrepreneurial policy, and in what areas does he see improvements?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1126	A new business-friendly majority government with a strong centre party will be a significant improvement in relation to today. When we meet business with their recommendations to do something, for example: with the law of permitment, SV and the Senterpartiet do not disagree with them in it. When significant strengthening of transport is sought, whether in connection with the transport plan or with the annual budget, the SV and the Central Party are not holding back. It's the government that has done. When it comes to correcting the weaknesses of the revised national budget now for Innovation Norway, it is not the Centre Party and the SV that are the problem of correcting it. We've added on significant amounts in relation to it, at the top of the cuts that have been taken. I don't think it should be the least art to be better in relation to Norwegian business than the government we have today. The experience of 2002 and 2003 is alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1135	I will first clarify a manifest misunderstanding. I understood it so that the representative Monsen thought it was SV who would be strong in the new government! So to the question. I am recording that the Center Party proposes NOK 1 billion more to the hospitals, which is the same sum as SV wants to strengthen health companies. But I see that the level of precision in terms of strengthening is not particularly high. You want it into the general framework. Now we've had a paycheck in the hospital sector where we see that individual groups, i.e. single doctors, have a salary increase of more than $100,000 in a year. The Central Party sees the need to provide stronger guidance on wage negotiations in health businesses, so as to prevent accumulations and increases in appropriations from Stortinge to a paycheck in health enterprises only, rather than being targeted in areas such as: psychiatry and care, where more could have been achieved in these areas where today is too weak.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1144	Greater income is needed for health businesses. I think we should agree on that when we see the 2003 deficit figures coming on the table. It doesn't add up to NOK 1 billion, and we've previously suggested to cancel the debt they brought with them from before. In addition, of course, we should have wanted the Stortinget to have put strict leads on salary growth. Today, we have put a proposal on the table that will deal with pension agreements and put restrictions on pension agreements primarily in health enterprises. People are desperate when they see what has happened in these few years. But because health businesses were released from health businesses, against our votes, there may be limited opportunities. But we are today inviting the Stortinget to grasp this very point. Let's limit the pensions that the directors of health companies can get to 8G. No one should be able to get more in public pensions in Norway is our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1151	The centre party has now joined the shadow government, or we're going to say the ghost government, to Jens Stoltenberg, and we see how the parties SV and the Center party are eager to come close to Jens, while the Workers' Party is not quite waiting for them to be no longer alone to be king on the hill. Such a government, if they were to be able to get a majority here in the hall, would take away the cash support and reduce the support to the incubators. Both Giske, Djupedal and Stoltenberg have clearly stated that the scheme that so many people use should be removed. We also see that the Centre Party has now begun to invert the cash support by saying that only those who are at home with the children should benefit from the scheme. For example, if you are a student and can take care of your children yourself, you need to lose an important financial supplement. This probably reminds me more of the "we will decide everything for you" of a socialism, and is not a confidence in parents arranging their everyday life as it best suits their lives. Is this a new line from the Center Party? Do they take away flexibility and diversity and join a socialist government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1158	After Norwegian voters for quite a long time have had minority governments and seen what kind of loss it brings, I think that after the election it will be difficult to avoid having a majority government. I sincerely hope that we will, and that someone will take responsibility for sitting in such a government. The center party wants it. The centre party will be involved if we become strong enough and get enough leverage in the political platform to be laid out. Then, too, the others must be willing to do so. What policy is going to be in the individual field is not so good to say. If we think back to the previous election campaign and look at what was the Christian People's Party's position in various cases before the elections, and what remained in the Sem Declaration, we see that there may be changes. I hope that the Central Party will not change its political stance as much as the Christian People's Party has done in this period. We've been disappointed many times about it, but we hope that the Christian People's Party can also change back to what they were when we wrote comments on the long-term program before the previous elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1167	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1170	For the Left, the most important thing in the revision of the 2004 budget has been to secure the developments we see when it relates to the decline in the number of unemployed. The state budget presented in the fall was very tight and had as its main objective the securing of existing jobs and the motivation to create new ones. For this reason, it was important for the Left that one of the main objectives in the revision of the State budget was this. The criticism of the co-operation government for a lack of efforts to create jobs is completely lacking in reality, too is now heard here: Since the co-operation government took over in the autumn of 2001, public R & D efforts have increased by NOK 3 billion. In addition, we've got the TaxFUNN scheme with a tax bill of $4 billion, which triggers $8 billion in extra research. The capital of the Research Fund is increasing from DKK 10 billion in 2001 to NOK 32.8 billion when we adopt the revised national budget today. Taxes of between $12 billion and $13 billion have also been significant to prevent more companies from reducing their activity and thus making more unemployed. Is this a puzzle effort? No, President! People's security is under pressure. Growth in the cost of the population takes a large part of the annual growth of the economy and makes it difficult to find the resources needed for other priority tasks. Social security payments are $3.2 billion higher than the one provided in the balance of the budget, and these additional costs have to be financed. This year we spend $26 billion on sick leave. In comparison, there is more to it than we use in law enforcement, law enforcement, prison, food security, and together. Only the increase of $1.45 billion since aging is equivalent to what we spend each year on justice in Norway. There is a large amount of private wealth in Norway, which, combined with social security rights and pension commitments that are emerging, means that one must dare to leave the idea that welfare schemes should be applied equally to the entire population. If I'm going to be a little self-critical, I might admit that by subsidizing each nursery place with NOK 12 000, there are many with good income that have received a large tax return. We must have a welfare policy that takes care of those most in need of community help, and we must have a social responsibility to secure all dignity in all stages of life. The left is well satisfied with an increase in the amount of money spent in the care of Russorg with an additional 100 million. kr. Increasing the quality of life and the dignity of our drug addicts is a heart issue for me and the Left. This increase, along with the increased permissions already in the State budget, shows that the Cooperation Agency is willing to give priority to those who really need help. The Petroleum Fund shall ensure that future generations will share in the well-being that our oilseeds have given us. At the same time, the fund has an ethical obligation towards those affected by the activities in which the fund invests. The left is very pleased that the last consideration is now materialised in the form of ethical guidelines for the Petroleum Fund. For the Left, it is important that not only does one exercise active ownership, filtering and extraction, but the assessments and decisions are also public. The left is therefore very pleased that a majority of the Committee points out the importance of openness in the follow-up to the ethical guidelines. Transparency of filtering and extraction is in line with the principle of publicity in the administration, while promoting ethical management. The left takes the pay queue seriously, and the reduction of the pay queue is a priority high by the Government. The government has both increased the capacity of prisons and increased the use of community sanctions as an alternative punishment. So I wonder that a number in this room really think that the Ministry of Justice should not be concerned with efficient resource use and quality assurance of construction projects. It must be the plurality that messes with its note on the construction of a new prison in Halden. Government policy asks for fruit. In the first quarter, the reconciliation queue was actually reduced. The left is well satisfied with its own efforts both in the Government and at the Stortinget this spring. The Stabilisation Policy of the Government works in the fight against increasing unemployment. In economic analysis no. 1/2004 typed SSB: "And unemployment increased less in this recession than in other recessions since the 1970s." From this point of view, we can say that stabilisation policy has been successful through 2003. According to a labour force survey conducted by the SSB path no employment, and it shows a rise of 12,000 people since last summer. This shows that the cooperation government policy is producing results. After the Left's view, getting more people out of the unemployment line is the most important thing right now. Finally, in a situation of high unemployment, it is important that people take responsibility and that adequate frameworks are provided to ensure that businesses are prepared to create new jobs. We are pleased that the Labour Party - in the management of the state budget in the fall, and now in the revision of this - is involved in taking this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1197	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1200	The representative Vihovde said that the main objective of the left was to create new jobs. The left-hand side likes to market itself as a batch of small businesses. But when the revised national budget was presented, the biggest cuts were just one of the most important tools we have to create new small businesses through innovation and innovation. It was met with both infidelity and head ironing. Innovation Norway had to stop its proceedings, so it came from a government that claims to suggest Norway to be one of the world’s most innovative countries. This is not the first time these items have got to feel the kick knife when the government is going to sew the budget together. Now there won't be any of these cuts. I assume that the representative Vihovde is pleased that the Workers' Party both in the autumn and now ensures that this will not be put into practice, and that Innovation Norway can now continue to process the applications. The left cannot believe that previous increases in the appropriations for research and development, as the representative pointed out, had become so large that it was now reasonable to bring them down a little?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1207	I hope that the representative Hansen agrees with me that having a weaker crown price and a low interest rate has been one of the most important things to do, simply to reduce the degradation that has occurred in many jobs, especially along the coast of the competitive industry. When I refer to what this government actually delivers in research and within the SkattenFUNN and the Research Fund, it is to show that the Government is actually taking innovation seriously. Then you get a proposal for a cut of 168 million. kr. Maybe it wasn't a cut that everyone waved over. But to keep the tightness of the budget and to be able to cover the social security payments and the large costs of sick leave that lie there, the Left actually defends that it was a cut that was necessary to keep the budget tight. The fact that this has now been reversed, and that one has found another cut, may well be the case, but it was not exactly the big implications that were in the Labour Party's proposals either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1213	The representative Vihovde has repeatedly, like other representatives of the government parties, made sure that the economic policy of the Progress Party would lead to higher interest rates and stronger crowns - at the latest in a row exchange with the representative Solholm on Tuesday. So it's the government's tight and responsible fiscal policy that has led to low interest rates and weaker crowns. But this policy has been spending more money than the Progress Party proposed in its alternative budget. How does this relate? If it is such that it is the government's policy that is responsible for everything, and not low import prices, international economic cycles, etc. - in short, that the context is somewhat more complicated - must it also be that the government's policy is responsible for the more than 100,000 unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1222	Yes, the government's policy works. Having a tight fiscal policy has actually been a part of making us have safe jobs. If we were to follow the Progress Party's budget proposals - I don't think the number of billions in addition to the 2004 budget, but it was a monthly figure - we would have received these expenses in addition to the fact that the costs of sick leave had gone up, the social security costs had gone up, and the tax revenues had fallen. Then one had a use of the oil fund and the future pension fund that had been huge, which had given the wrong signal to the market, and which had actually made the interest rate rise and the exchange rate had become more unfavourable. Leading a tight budget and maintaining public spending is important, but it's not the Progress Party any good at all, because they actually have billions of investments everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1227	The representative of Hill-Marta Solberg, on behalf of all parties with the exception of the Government Parties, has made a proposal that the Icelandic factory trawler "Gudrun Gisladottir", located 40 metres deep in the Napstream in Lofoten, be raised as previously foreseen. The ship sank two years ago, and it has always been a prerequisite for raising the boat, because it represents a pollution hazard where it lies in a vulnerable and important fishing area in Lofoten. It should have been lifted a long time ago. It is very critical that this has not already happened. The political responsibility lies with the Minister for Fisheries. It is available from among others: statements by a competent mountain company that the cancellation may be carried out within one month. What does the Left think about that matter? Does the Left support this proposal? There is much in the Left's programme on the environment and that the party will protect vulnerable fishing areas from pollution. Should "Gudrun Gisladottir" be lifted and removed from Lofoten, so that we avoid contamination of a vulnerable fishing area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1234	For 2003, 11 million have been disbursed. kr to cancel "Gudrun Gisladottir". But it turns out that these permissions are too small. The fact that it has taken longer to raise the trawler, does not come from summer, but adverse weather conditions. When the Minister of Fisheries now says that lifting the wreck is unlikely to be complicated, but that they want to remove the oil and thus prevent the emission threat lying there, the Left threatens the Minister of Fisheries. I am surprised that there is no requirement to know the cost of it either. It'll be significantly more expensive than 11 million. I wanted to know what one got on the environment for what this would cost. It might make more sense to spend the money on something else that is much more important for the environment - and let the boat lie where it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1241	In the proposal, the Government promotes a number of proposals for the conversion of the funding system for the construction of student housing. The proposals do not imply, as the Centre Party sees it, an increased bet by the Government, but briefly summarized a zero-sum game in which the rules of the game are changed before all the student relationships have come to fruition. The government's proposal to reduce the government grant and raise the borrowing rate, in parallel with the longer duration of the loans, could increase the cost of the communications, which in turn would have to send the bill to the students in the form of increased rents. Does the representative of Vihovde think that there is a good welfare policy in this way to allow future students to bear the risk of any increased costs of development?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1246	During the hearings of the financial committee, this was also a topic that the student organisations raised with us. In fact, they thought this was a scheme that seemed sensible in the short term. A number of student housing facilities were built, but they also signaled that there were some long-term challenges in terms of maintenance costs, and that this could also result in additional costs for students, as the representative of Krylaa was involved. If the main goal is to build more dwellings, we will have the long-term goal of getting something done with the grant rate, so that students can meet these costs, and maybe in the long term we could adjust the grant rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1251	We're coming back to Goddrun Gisladottir. It's declared a wreck where it lies in the Nappstrom. When it removes oil and other pollution hazards, it will not pose any environmental threats, said the representative Vihovde. So the department is going to be allowed to dump wrecks in Nappstraumen, and that's what the representative Vihovde is in favour of. Can any fisherman who masters boats also dump wrecks in the sea, or is it only the department that will be allowed to do so? Is that the Left's position?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1256	No, it's actually not the left hand hold that it should be dumped - the cork here or there. We've been driving and busy in shipwreck removal in the event of shipwreck. But what I want to say in this case is that raising this wreck costs a lot more than what is in the budget, and the Minister for Fisheries has not received the money, they are not allowed in the budget. Nor have there been any suggestions in this room that these money should be set aside. If you want to take the extra cost of raising the wreck, you should not reverse it; we see that in the long run it may be the best solution. But as long as the Minister for Fisheries says that by leaving the wreck there, and by taking oil out, there is no danger of pollution, I actually believe the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1261	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1264	I'm gonna leave Godrun alone. The Coastal Party will provide this budget with a value conservative profile. I record that the Government proposes many changes in the budgets of state agencies and institutions. It is both disturbing and frustrating for businesses, municipalities and state agencies when the Government of the revised national budget makes many proposals for changes. We're a lot here in this room that's a lot out there among people, and we're making an idea of what they mean. Maybe it's just the originals I've met, but most I'm talking to, want long-termity and predictability. They simply believe that security in this area must be the basis for the future and development of the establishment or establishment. So what do you experience? The Government promotes one proposal after another in the revised budget, proposals that mean cutbacks. The government is pursuing a policy as if the country is becoming bankrupt. But that's the opposite that happens. The country currently has a historically good economy. Nevertheless, it has to be cut, but fishermen have to lose their main agreement with the State, yet they have to put pressure on Norwegian business. The reason is, of course, that this government adheres to the rule of action and has to push through great tax relief, especially to those with large assets and high incomes. It's going to be wrong, but it's a pedagogical good policy. The right-hand side - of which this government is part - shows that they are serious about their policies. Yes, one can truly say that right-wing policy is working. They show that they prioritise high tax relief for the rich, at the expense of a long-term and sensible investment in the country due to a mixed economy on which the welfare of this country is built. The Coastal Party is deeply concerned that the majority of Stortinget shows so little interest in having the State contribute to the modernisation of this country. To give an example, the Coast Guard is given approx. 700 million. kr. It's much smaller than what the state uses on native language training. Think about it a little bit! Coast Guards are supposed to take care of our interests, our real values in the ocean. They don't have enough money to fill up their tanks so they can get the boats out and sail. We spend more money on native language training. We believe that a greater part of the oil wealth must be used for the home purchase of shares in Norwegian companies. It must be used to support the development of the road network. In particular, I have the Coastal Road and road sections just like the Kirkenes in my mind. You have to make sure that the fast route remains a Norwegian jewel. This route is a Norwegian brand and lifeblood for people in North Norway during winter. Yes, the only one, at least the best, marketer we have abroad, is the fast route. It must pass as a Norwegian nutrient road. The Coastal Party will invest in the development of the maritime industries, we will have the pilot project City Ship Tunnel expanded, we will modernise the power plants in the country. We want a health care that needs to be adapted to the aging wave that will rage inwards. These are not utopian projects. There are realistic projects that will help Norway become a stronger and more independent nation. In this context, I would like to make the proposals that the Coastal Party has put forward in the vote. Otherwise, I will end by saying that the Coastal Party is against Norway being sold piece by piece.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1292	The representative Steinar Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1296	"Norway shall be one of the world's most innovative countries, where businesses and people with progressive creativity have good opportunities to develop profitable business. In key areas, Norway shall be in close international knowledge, technology and value creation." These are the Government's words, repeated by Prime Minister Bondevik as late as the opening of the Government Innovation Forum on June 11. But here, there's clearly a long distance between life and learning. The Government’s proposals for the revised national budget set out a dramatic cut in measures and instruments to stimulate innovation and development of business. Innovation Norway would cut by 165 million. kr. Pending final treatment today, Innovation Norway has had to stop much of its customer service. Here was a cut in research, in the value creation programme for agriculture and forestry - yes, in a range of areas of economic development, which the Labour Party had strengthened in its 2004 budget proposal, and for which we had also received a partial impact in the budgetary agreements with the Government Party. Despite the high unemployment rate of well over 100,000, the Government did not propose to continue the increase in the number of places of action that we received for the first six months. The period of leave was proposed to be reduced from 42 weeks to 26 weeks. Apart from strengthening health businesses and stopping the increase in ownership, there were therefore measures to create new jobs and an active labour market policy that the Labour Party had to give priority to in the treatment of the revised national budget. Those who stand out of the agreement claim that it is the message and little that the Workers' Party has achieved in the agreement. However, within a framework of DKK 1.3 billion, we have achieved important changes: we have received 4,000 new sites for action and the continuation of the ability to permit for 42 weeks. 376 million. kr is going to reverse proposals for cutting research and innovation and to strengthen the infrastructure. It's going to add up to 100 million. SEK in 2004 and 2005 to create new jobs in Årdal and Høyanger. Health enterprises receive 500 million. kr in increased permissions, and there will be no increase in the peculiarities of health. In the agreement, there is further agreement to keep up the press support, support for Norwegian films and support for the purchase of free space. The Labour Party believes that it is important to prevent the high unemployment from "getting stuck". It is therefore necessary to ensure that those who are currently unemployed are not left out of work but are given the opportunity to strengthen their qualifications and opportunities for active work in new jobs. The unemployed must therefore be provided with a differentiated range of professional practices, wage breaks, temporary schemes and regular training measures. It is worth noting what the Director of Labour concluded at a seminar on unemployment in the Financial Committee on 12 May this year: "Work market measures have a positive impact on the future career of participants - especially for those with specific labour market problems." I also note that she felt that her experience showed that targeted efforts towards the unemployed and the disabled are a good social economy. In the Labour Party's alternative state budget for this year, we proposed to spend over $2.1 billion more than the Government of an active policy to create and secure jobs. The budget agreement had a budget of 900 million. kr more for this. The Labour Party could therefore not accept the Government’s proposals for cuts in these areas in the revised national budget. In the agreement with the government party, we have had a lot of this reversed. This means that there will be more to start-ups and businesses at an early stage. Permissions for culture-based business, Innovation Furniture, etc. I'm afraid. The initiative on culture-based business we're fighting through here at Stortinget because we know it has great potential in it. We also see that there are 200 applications for 90 million. kr only for the first six months of this year. Investments in the road network were increased, and we were given measures for new jobs in Årdal and Høyanger, where Hydro is building up its business. Those who really want more active work for new jobs, for the unemployed, need to be able to see that this means a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1321	New information recently confirms the picture of a positive development in the Norwegian economy. Growth in domestic demand is strong, and the mood indicator suggests that industry leaders are expecting both increased output and increased employment in the future. National accounts figures for the first quarter of this year show that growth in the Norwegian economy continues. In particular, there is a strong increase in household demand, which must be seen in the context of the low level of interest rates. In addition, strong oil investment growth contributes to the upsurge of activity in mainland Norway. In the revised national budget, growth in mainland Norway’s GDP was estimated to increase from 0.6pst. last year to 3 pst. in 2004. A growth in the mainland economy is expected to be around 3 pst. also next year. The latest forecasts from the Bank of Norway and the Central Bureau of Statistics also point to the fact that growth in the Norwegian economy is taking place clearly in the current year. The cover of the mainland economy is reflected in a more positive development also in the labour market. According to the Labour Force Survey of the Statistical Centre, employment is on the rise, and since the bottom of last summer, the latest figures indicate a seasonally adjusted increase in employment of around 12 000 people. In the same period, the AKU unemployment rate has decreased from 4.7 pst. to 4.3 pst. by the labour force. The recorded unemployment rate also shows a declining trend. The consideration of the cyclical situation suggests that there should be restraint in budgetary policy, so as to prevent pressure on interest rates and on the exchange rate. Listening to many contributions to this debate, especially from parties that are not partners with the government parties now, the impression is that growth is particularly dependent, in fact exclusively, on public appropriations. Let me remind you of what was Norwegian industry's clear message to the politicians a year ago: do something with the strong crown price. An export industry cannot live at such a strong price. We've done something about that. It's worked. And then the message was that the interest rate had to go down, and it's also worked so monstrous. That is why it is right to say that there are many good spending proposals for many good purposes, but the sum of all the good spending proposals provides a devastating industrial policy. It does not help with support for innovation and innovation if the company cannot survive with the prices that are, with the costs that are, and with the krone price that existed. I am pleased that there is also full disintegration of the Government's proposals on petroleum taxation and the Government's proposals in other areas, mentioned in the petroleum communication. The objective of the proposals is to follow-up the Storting's message to stimulate, in particular, marginal investment. This is not done by stimulating investment in high-profit fields, i.e. by reducing special taxes. The context should be obvious. I note from the debate that the figures of the Progress Party in particular have said that this tax debate should continue. I must stress how unfortunate that will affect the actual economic situation in Norway. This means that companies can have a strong incentive to postpone exploration and development activities in order to reinforce the crisis and strengthen their own argument, often also called lobbying. The industry’s focus is being shifted away from the major and important challenges of addressing cost-effectiveisation and technology development. An ongoing tax debate will dampen the marketing of licences, thus preventing the necessary strengthening of diversity and competition. Like other industries, this industry needs stable and predictable framework conditions. Accelerated or short-term tax adjustments will increase the risk of frequent changes. We've seen examples of that, not least from British pedestal. I note that the Government has a broad disintegration of the measures that will now be implemented in the petroleum sector, and it is important that it is part of a long-term and predictable policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1342	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1345	It's very good that we've come out of the period we had with stagnation in the economy. It's positive that there's now growth in the Norwegian economy, and that we have low interest rates. It is also positive that employment is increasing. What is troubling in this situation is that even with increasing employment there is no corresponding reduction in unemployment. We've seen examples from other countries' economies, when unemployment first came to a rather high level, that even if the economy developed positively, the unemployed were isolated from the labour market, and never got back into it. The Labour Party is concerned that we should have a very active policy to avoid getting into that situation in Norway. There's a risk of that now, and we see that the predictions of a reduction in unemployment are that unemployment will go down very little. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Is the Minister of Finance absolutely certain that we will not be faced with such a situation in the Norwegian economy that despite the rise, good times and growth of the economy, we will have a very large share of the labour force in unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1361	There is no numerical basis to claim that we get a lock-in of a group of permanently unemployed over a long period of time. The rate of transition, if you can use that expression, in the queue of the unemployed has now become higher than in the past. I also want to focus on what is in the last review of the Norwegian economy of the Central Statistical Office, where one has lifted one’s eyes and said, “What happens when one is in recession?” Then the time off increases. But in the period of decline we have now experienced, unemployment has increased less than in previous periods of decline. So it hasn't stuck to a permanent high level of leave. If I am allowed to refer to experiences in our social-democratic neighbouring country Sweden, they are currently experiencing economic growth, that is, an increase in the economy, but at the same time they are increasing unemployment. It does not do so in Norway, so in this way you have more to learn by looking at Norway than by looking at social-democratic Sweden at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1370	I must first be allowed to congratulate the Minister of Finance on new Council colleagues. Then for the debate on petroleum taxation. The Progress Party will continue the debate in this area and in all other policy areas where we disagree with the Government. So it's not like the Minister of Finance or Government are the ones who manage the only true description of reality. But then to my question. The Minister of Finance has just referred to the Central Statistical Office. They have said a lot of interesting things, among other things. they claim that investment in mainland Norway will only take up a little bit. They claim that the rise in the economy will be moderate and that the decline in unemployment will be moderate. My question then becomes to the Minister of Finance: does he also share these considerations from the Central Statistical Agency, despite the fact that their analysis differs somewhat from that presented by the Government itself in the budgetary documents?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1379	No, it is not that the analysis of the labour market by the Central Statistical Office differs from that of the Government. As usual, unfortunately, when the chairman of the Financial Committee talks about forecasts, she makes mistakes. The chairperson of the Financial Committee has made it a specialty, to put it that way, to provide forecasts of economic growth that never votes, hardly enough in the month it is given. The head of the Finance Committee said that she did not believe in the financial forecasts presented by the Government - as was quoted in a previous post. Well, well, then she might be able to believe in other forecasts presented by the Bank of Norway, by the Central Statistical Office, etc. They go in the exact same direction. Following the presentation of the revised national budget, the Agency has presented its new forecasts both for labour market, for economic growth in general, for price increases, etc., and across the board underpins the government's revised forecasts. Then you get to believe what you want. But to put it this way, I think it's an advantage that you're in the real world. And welcome back there!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1388	I am also a little surprised at the beauty of the Norwegian economy in which the Minister of Finance is guilty. The economic trends presented by the Agency from yesterday say that there is only a weak improvement in the labour market that will be very modest. It goes on to say: "Unemployment is likely to fall slightly, from 4.3 per cent in 2004 to 3.8 per cent in 2006, well above 3.2 per cent in the previous high economic cycle in 1998. That means we're going to imagine a situation all the way forward where in three years the unemployment rate will be over 100,000. Then there are many things in the Norwegian economy that go better. This is partly due to the international economic cycle and partly due to the national economic cycle. To a limited extent, this is due to the Government. This is also established by the Agency, which refers to the international economic situation. My challenge to the Council of State is this: If it is true that in many countries there is what is called 'jobless growth', i.e. growth without reducing unemployment, does the Council of State think it would be right to have special measures for this in the budget for the autumn, in order to get rid of unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1402	It was an exciting invitation from the representative of Djupedal to an interesting debate on "jobless growth". The best example of theory and practice on the contrary in the 1990s has actually been the development of the United States, where a formidable growth in the economy has been over a longer period almost without historical parallels, and where that growth has also led to a - seen with American eyes, and seen with European eyes - very strong growth in employment. But I'm not going to give up saying that we're just using American experience. Yes, it's important, I think, that, in parallel with pursuing a sensible economic policy that gives the krone price to live with, which gives moderate interest in relation to other countries, it also stimulates a more long-term transition in industry, or in competitive business at all, because it's right that business is facing challenges other than just domestic ones. Moderate wage-fixing is important, moderate monetary and financial policies are important. At the same time, however, major structural changes are facing international challenges from the "new" countries of Asia: China, India, etc. The structural transformations in the entire shipbuilding industry, to take another example, require conversion, and that is why the Government also rates strongly, stronger than any previous government, on research and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1409	This has been partly the spring of cooperation between the so-called main enemies of Norwegian policy. The long-term defence plan and the revised budget are probably the two most important examples of it. At the same time, the Right has gone very high on the track with a rather simple rhetoric, I would say, around the "red danger". The saying reminds me a little of the tone back in youth policy, to be honest, and the rhetoric gets its own way. But it seems to be quite simply for the Government to agree with the so-called main opponent, much simpler than in the dialogue they have with bourgeois parties such as the Progress Party. The reply to Siv Jensen in this round confirms that this indicates that the dialogue with the main opponent is perhaps easier than with fellow citizens. My question is what it really feels like for the Minister of Finance and the Right to make an agreement and a settlement with a party that has gradually chosen to start calling the red hazard.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1419	To be honest, I have to say that I saw Siv Jensen's main post as a campaign about who is the most social-democratic, the Labour Party or the Progress Party. So from the point of view of civil policy - yes, I'm only allowed to reply in this way that then I will refer to Willoch's last two books. There's something about that right there. How does it feel to cooperate with the Workers' Party? Well, the Workers' Party has the advantage that they are at least in the world of reality in terms of the rule of action and the use of oil money. There they differ sharply from the Center Party, which has completely changed the course and attitude of spending money since they last sat in government. Let me say it -- almost personally -- so that I don't recognize anything from the old Center Party, from Gudmund Restad's time, and I've been sitting with him in the Finance Committee for eight years, in the Center Party that is now acting in the Stortinget. It's not a bunch of context and equality. It has also increased the distance of the Workers' Party. I've been sitting and philosophizing a little while while I've been listening to the posts here, about the government conferences of the "chaosmates" at the time they might take over government power.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1428	The next replicator is Tore Nordtun - Rogaland's red hazard. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1431	Thank you for that description, I very much appreciated it. I listened to the Minister of Finance's comments on the rise in the Norwegian economy, and it made me think: Will there be such a need to stimulate the Norwegian economy through more use of money from the oil fund? If we are to follow the so-called rule of action, we have used up all that the rule of action suggests that we can use, until 2010. I want to hear the finance minister's view of it. Because when you run at the same time a quite offensive line on tax relief, which is also to come in the harvest, to those who need it least, where are the cuts going to come? Are they going to face the unemployed, or are they going to benefit from social benefits, or are they going to benefit from the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1438	I guess it's not as gloomy as you could imagine, that we've been using everything we can use the oil fund for years to come. But it is true that we are now at the top of a 4 pst phase-in by adjustments to the revised budget. We're a little closer to the 4 pst rule than what we were in the 2003 budget, so that's a good thing. I wanted a settlement without more oil money. I have noticed the Workers' Party's admonition not to spend more oil money, but I just registered that they were not the leader of the negotiations here in Stortinget. The oil fund is also affected by other factors. Let me say that a high oil price over time, a still high oil production - where we are not in any path of weather, we are in a path of development, oil investment is rising both this year, to the next year and probably in 2006 - provides a slightly greater room for action in budgetary policy over the years to come. But it's important that we still have a rule of action, so that we don't imagine that a high oil price should suddenly be plucked into the economy for a month or two, because it's impossible to take it back again. Therefore predictability and long-termity are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1445	The cord shift is over. Before we go back to the list of speakers, the President will state that there is a need for a few corrections to be made to the printed document on case No. 2 on the agenda. The President therefore allows himself to make proposals for some changes and will be taken into account during the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1450	Unlike the Government, we in SV are very concerned about the high unemployment rate. I have to say that I am amazed at the way the Right is trying to minimize the situation, by reporting that things are going a lot better now, the situation is turning around - and completely without proposing any active action to reduce unemployment. The problem is that things aren't as positive about the employment as the government claims. As late as yesterday, the SSB sent out an overview of the economic trends of Norway and stated that "the improvement in the labour market is very modest". It's so typical that Jan Tore Sanner in his post left just that sentence in connection with all the sentences he quoted from the SSB. By the end of April, as many as 154 400 people were unsatisfied with the labour market - over 90 000 were out of work altogether. Instead of contributing positively through work, these human contributions cost society a lot of money in terms of day-to-day payments. We spent 11 billion dollars on daily money in 2003, which is $3 billion more than in 2002. Extra evil is that the number of long-term unemployed is increasing. We've had an increase in the number of long-term unemployed at 50 pst. in three years. We can't have it like this. We can't sit still and look at such a development. In March SV submitted a Document No. Eight proposals for a series of effective and offensive measures to combat unemployment. The fight against unemployment is a great deal about industrial policy, and our proposals therefore take active action so that people can create values rather than accept passive statements. In order to reduce unemployment in the long term, it is necessary to take action to improve productivity. Technological development towards future-oriented products and markets must be a pillar of such a commitment. Research, technology and skills development shall provide the basis for profitable enterprises in Norway. There is no reason for the government to use rhetoric in speeches. Proposals for major cuts in research and development funds in the revised budget and cut in the budget for Innovation Norway show that the Government has no ambitions to do nothing about unemployment or to have an active industrial policy. On the other hand, SV has a increment of 200 million. SEK for research and innovation, as one of 12 points in a package of measures, and of course zeros we cut at Innovation Norway. Our package includes: an increase of 58 million for the school construction scheme. kr, which will provide the extension and rehabilitation of school buildings for an additional 2 billion kroner. In addition, we increase the social housing permits by 48 million. kr, we increase the race protection pot by 125 million. kr, and we have a railway bet of 285 million. kr. Of course, SV also has a commitment to an additional and renewable energy, and we have several measures that can provide lasting jobs linked to it. A combined package of about 100 million. kr for such projects. In this way, with these projects I'm referring to here, one could give a very large increase in the employment in the construction sector. The construction sector is among those with the highest unemployment rate. Even if she is now going down something in that particular sector, there is still cloud-high unemployment there. There is no help in allowing more money to build schools, unless local authorities can afford to participate, and they can afford to run schools. So, among other things, To raise Skule-Noreg, we increase the free resources of the municipalities by nearly $1 billion. Strengthening the community economy and hospitals will, as I was in a reply to Siv Jensen, as well as providing us with better welfare services, of course, help the many unemployed in the areas of health, care and care. Yesterday the SSB announced that unemployment continues to increase within these sectors. I'll almost call that embarrassing, all the time there's plenty of work to do in the welfare sector in Norway. We have a bunch of other suggestions too, but I'm not going to go into them all. But there is good reason to refer to SV's comments and suggestions in the revised budget. Even with an offensive effort, we realise, unfortunately, that we do not reach all the unemployed in a short time. For this reason, we have added a monthly increase in the number of action sites. SV has 2000 more common action places and nearly 3000 more for people with disabilities. It is important to maintain a high number of action places, so that people can have contact with the labour market, pending the improvement of the labour market and the return to a regular job. SV has previously proposed a national strategy to make our country a leader in the solar industry. Today we have 20 pst. of the world market for silicon panels for solar panels, and we have about 500 jobs in the solar industry per year. today. It was very gratifying at that time that one in the revised budget could beat two flies in a taste and remedy the crisis in the industrial communities of Årdal and Høyanger by helping to establish perhaps as much as 250 profitable jobs within just that kind of forward-looking industry. The Labour Party and the Government must be commended for solving this in a way that a collective accumulation has also joined. But here it is in the maps that Hydro has to contribute. Hydro must contribute by converting its final packages into that type of project. But I want to warn the Government against believing that this individuality solves the situation of the one-sided industrial cities in the country. The Government has not understood, for example: by making new proposals for tightening up the rules of leave, is that this is not how we can conduct industrial policy. Sometimes it's the Storting that needs to clean up, put the Government in place, reverse cut suggestions, and pursue an active business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1485	In May and June, there is a time for revision in Stortinget. I, and certainly the other members of the Financial Committee, have received a number of requests which argue very well for increased appropriations. Good ends need more money. Trustees in parties, local politicians and spokespersons and women from business and non-governmental organisations have positive expectations. For many years it has been such that revising the budget has been distributing more money. It's not like this year. For several consecutive years, expenditure has increased more and revenue has become less than one calculated. Then the revision will cut in and redeploy the budget. Equally, the government found this year to be able to suggest spending more money in some important areas, such as: to the police and to drug treatment. I would like to draw attention to the increased costs in my article. The government parties, together with the Workers' Party, have found good solutions to this challenge. Something is covered in, and something is covered in the increased use of oil money. There are good solutions, a lot of accountability and little conflict in that very thing. But what's serious is not just the increased costs. It's a big challenge to innovate that it's a problem in itself that expenditure increases this way. It's about more than covering the expenses here and now. It is a problem because this money could have been used in municipalities to further strengthen school and care. They could have been used to further improve the framework conditions for business. They could have made even more effort in future jobs by further strengthening school and research. We should see billion-class increases in offensive grips to create and secure a good future for future generations. We are prevented in this because we first have to pay the bill for the increased costs. But the important thing is not to focus on the money we have to spend, but on every individual human being behind these numbers. We have to take inwards that there are more and more people who don't fit into their professional life. If we start to see that unemployment is stabilising and reducing, then we must not close our eyes to the fact that the year's revision of the national budget clearly shows that there are more and more people who feel that our society does not need them, or that they are not effective or healthy enough to have them at work. This is about human dignity. Everyone must have the right to be called upon, and to be involved and contribute to society - to count with. We need everyone! This side of the figures in the revised budget commits. It obliges us in the Christian People's Party. This challenge obliges all parties. For here a price change is required. We need to cooperate across the party boundaries to create a society where this trend is reversed. If we are to maintain a welfare society for our children, it should still be good to live in Norway, then we need to increase professional participation. We're about to make changes in the pension system, and we're looking at the tax system. But we have to do more. We also need to look again at the systems of popular fear. We need to focus on good arrangements for those who need it. Then we also have to be neater to strain out those who don't need it. We must continue to have a good health pay scheme with full pay in case of sickness. If we are to cope with this, the arrangements must be made more binding for all parties, including the employer and doctor. The objective must be a wider participation in professional life for all groups. Conversion of welfare systems requires political courage and will, willingness to cross-political cooperation on good solutions. There is something more than an agreement on the figures in a budget. Revising the State budget is about numbers, subtracting and adding. But it is also about revising the policy. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to contribute to a change of course and to a policy for a society where we need all hands and everyone's efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1504	"Norway shall be one of the world's most innovative countries, where businesses and people with progressive creativity have good opportunities to develop profitable business. In key areas, Norway shall be in close international knowledge, technology and value creation." These words are the innovation policy vision of the Bondevik II government. They said that the instrument should have increased focus on innovation. The goal was innovation in business across the country. The device was to be the focus of innovation and entrepreneurship instruments, and the organisation was to take place at Innovation Norway and the Research Council's Innovation Division. The government even presented its own plan for a comprehensive innovation policy. It's called From Idea to Value. Innovation requires interaction between business and public. It can't be the government that talks and thinks, and the business that pays. Everyone has to contribute here. The proposed cut for Innovation Norway was 188.4 million. kr. It doesn't sound so much like the exit point, but for all those who had hopes of good projects, there was a blow in the face. Many activities were proposed, including: on the tourism side. We had an upturn in people's travel activities - and then the funds were cut for the profiling of Norway. The winter program we had planned had to be cancelled - in other words, free for the winter country Sweden and not the winter country Norway. Does this winter program mean so much? Yeah, actually. There have been some 35 small and medium-sized destinations bringing together a joint campaign scheme with Innovation Norway. Everyone's contributing. Last winter, Norway experienced a recovery, with a visit growth of 5.5 pst. Then it's little visionary to cut in this campaign. People are being lured by good campaigns. The destinations included in this campaign depend on a common approach. Individually, they have little opportunity to engage in large-scale marketing outside Norway. Innovation Norway’s funds thus create ring-effects and attract others. This means a lot to important jobs in districts. In addition, there are important women's jobs. Equally bad was the proposal to cut off the OFU/IFU contracts. In a frame of 149.1 million. kr - then the Eurofighter programme's designation has been deducted - should be cut to 70 million. kr. Innovation Norway’s objective of creating Norwegian flagships in the Norwegian and international industry frontier country, based on the best industrial actors, would be terminated. Back to the entry for nationwide innovation. This item had a total of 223.1 million. kr. So of this it was suggested to cut 55 million. kr. It's a big cut, when you think about what these possibilities are. A small example is Innovation Furniture, which is now well under way. Several Norwegian furniture companies are involved in the project, and they have set up cooperation to improve the export potential of the Norwegian furniture industry. It would have been incredibly sad to cut, now that we had finally started after a long time of planning. Culture and nutrition are another exciting area. In the 2003 budget, the Labour Party received 5 million. kr for this purpose. The demand was high, and we increased the amount to 20 million. kr. When the revised national budget came to the table, 208 applications were made for funding for culture and industry. The total amount of these was 90 million. kr. Without going into what all these applications contain, one can safely say that it's a wide range, ranging from media parks to music exports and fireworks. When this day is over, the money is in place again, fortunately. Innovation Norway and all those waiting for answers to their applications may be relieved. Here in the house we'll look forward. The next budgetary procedure is for the autumn. Then we must become more offensive. Women's jobs, women's entrepreneurs in Oslo and Akershus, have 4 million. in the case of start-up aid, spread over the whole of the eastern region. It also applies to men. Here it has to be more, and we have good opportunities in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1528	As others have also said, it is gratifying that the reading of the revised budget has become what it ought to be, namely a revision of the budget and not a whole new round of budget. It is also gratifying that the revised budget is adopted within a responsible financial framework. The industry has requested, and the best contribution that the Government and the Storting can make in creating more and safer jobs is, of course, just a tight budget, with low interest rates, low inflation and competitive crown prices as a result, and improvement in the company's framework conditions through tax relief. We see that the government's work is producing results. Optimism is back in Norwegian business. Unemployment shows a downward trend, and people look brighter in the future. We're not supposed to rush this away. The opposition in Stortinget, with the Workers' Party at the head, still comes - even today - with criticism by the Government, that, among other things. do not do enough to reduce unemployment. But when we know that the government's policy is working, that the government gives business good and predictable framework conditions, that the government is doing something about the reasons for the unemployment, the criticism does not hit the goal. It was the opposite that happened when Stoltenberg was prime minister. The conditions for Norwegian companies were greatly exacerbated. The interest rate went up, the crown increased, and the taxes increased. But I'm going to give the Workers' Party right at one point that you've been dealing with: there's a difference between who's in government. The fight against the public spending pressure is hard. Interest groups and opposition parties attempt to drive up expenditure each day. The result of this commitment is that the results of successful economic policies have been overtaken in recent years. And even though the revision of the Workers' Party has been carried out in decent forms, the Workers' Party has also thrown itself at the expense wheel. The tax breaks, which have mostly gone to businesses to improve their framework conditions and thus secure Norwegian jobs, have used the Workers' Party many times already - for pensions and other welfare goods, for transportation and municipalities, for schools and hospitals. So the government has, in spite of this pressure, managed to hold back from the spending pressure and from some populist opposition that will trick people into thinking that all problems can be solved by granting more money, and that all problems must be solved by the public. The Progress Party is trying to explain away, but it really must be a little strange for the Progress Party to feel that things are going better with the Norwegian economy, that the Government's policy is working, when they themselves in the budget by budget and in the post post-posts have claimed the opposite, and that it is really just their experimental policy that will work - a model with low or no taxes and a high level of consumption. I'm glad they didn't get through to it. Perhaps the Advancement Party is too. Finally, I also note that the Progress Party has come to the conclusion that the revised budget is a budgetary audit with the aim of revising the budget, not to counter numerous political issues. They will also not change the framework conditions in the middle of the year. This is a new line, and that is really quite a good thing, but the Progress Party is unable to implement it as well. They're pretty much able to do it when it comes to cuts. They don't take that many fights. But they take a bunch of rematches in terms of additions. But additions may not be rematches, it's just nice to be kind. And that it weakens a budget discipline may not be so dangerous. Then it's just to give more money. Money for the current generation has enough of the Progress Party. Worse, it might be for the next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1555	If there is one government council that has reason to applaud the budgetary cooperation between the Labour Party and the Government Parties, it must be the Minister for Health. It must apply both to him who has been, and not least to him who comes. The Minister of Health and Norwegian patients can be pleased that the hospital budget in total has been strengthened by DKK 1 billion in addition to the Government's proposal - first by SEK 500 million. kr in the 2004 State Budget Agreement, since now with a further billion in the revision of the budget. The new phase-out of the budget before Christmas added 350 million to the hospitals. kr more than the government proposed. The Labour Party has thus achieved an impact on priorities that are fully in line with our own alternative budget for 2004. In addition to the additional billions of hospitals, the deadline for health care establishments to achieve economic balance has been shifted by one year. This means that health-care establishments are not required to make professionally irresponsible changes to e.g.: emergency preparedness and food supply because the economy forces them to do so. A lot of attention has been paid to the economy of hospitals. Many have been disturbed by plans to cut health services and lay-offs from hospital departments. Even after the agreement with the Workers' Party, it is clear that hospitals have a tight financial environment. One can then vividly imagine what the situation would have been like if the Government had got through its financial arrangement for this year. In order to maintain confidence in the health reform, it is important that the health business economy is balanced by the end of 2005. On the other hand, the size must provide an economic framework that makes this a realistic objective. The agreement with the Workers' Party contributes strongly in this way. I can promise the Government that this will be an important prerequisite for the Workers' Party also in the work on the state budget later this autumn. Much is good in Health-Norway, but much can also be better. There is no doubt that there is a need for changes and changes in the hospital system. However, these changes should have the best interests of patients. They shall be medically justified and not result from economic considerations. Once we've managed to create a greater financial space for the hospitals, it's a prerequisite that this money really goes to operation and patient treatment. Health business managers and trade unions must assume their responsibilities to prevent the development of an unhealthy culture with disproportionately good pay and pension conditions. The Workers' Party went on a harvest against the Government's proposal to increase the cost of the people's money card scheme from NOK 1 350 to NOK 2 500. Such a sharp increase would have affected all those who have high medical and medical expenditures. In the budget agreement with the government parties, we had a self-interest of NOK 1550. The Labour Party was therefore surprised that the Government of the revised budget again proposed an increase in the proportion of health care. The Labour Party could not accept the proposals for, inter alia, increased abstinences in medical care, physiotherapy, psychological assistance and travel by free hospital choice. These were unsocial cut suggestions that would hit sick people. The increases were, in our opinion, also a long way on the way to a breach of the agreement we entered into last autumn. For us, therefore, it was absolutely necessary to reverse the increase in equity when we entered into the agreement on the revised budget. We're proud that we did it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1576	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1579	In the context of the revised budget, the Government also provides guidelines for the use of ultrasound. Once again, the Government is seeking to tighten up today's practice. The Government proposes the provision of ultrasonic testing for 17-19 weeks and ultrasonic testing for medical criteria. This is well and good, but when the guidelines clarify that the use of ultrasound in addition to this is not considered to be good clinical practice, this will lead to a narrowing of established practice, a practice that is far more extensive than based on the two criteria proposed by the Government. The formulations do not rightly suggest that early ultrasound testing should be prohibited on other criteria, but the formulations are such that they will act as a strong pressure on both pregnant women, doctors and midwives to limit the extent of ultrasound - for which doctor, which midwife, would dare to act on a basis that is not good clinical practice through public guidelines? At best, the guidelines will be practised in a very different way, and thus the offer to pregnant women will also be different, at worst a drastic tightening. As the Labour Party sees it, it must be the woman who bears the fetus, the permanent child, who has the right to have knowledge of the development and health state. This right must not be medicated or psychologicalised. The working party therefore considers that a third criterion must be incorporated into the guidelines, a criterion which ensures that women wishing to receive ultrasonic testing should also be entitled to do so early in pregnancy on an independent basis and within the framework of general pregnancy control. This is a fundamental issue and is about women's right of self-determination. With the potential of ultrasonic technology, there will be an increasing need for skills development. For this reason, a majority of the financial committee has committed itself to increased appropriations in the next budget. This is a clear signal to the Council of State to take this into account in the forthcoming budgetary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1588	The government proposed in the revised budget to remove the basic charge on disposable packaging for beverages. The proposal was partly covered by a small increase in the product charge, but nevertheless resulted in a net tax reduction of 300 million. kr on an annual basis. Drinking packaging is levied both on land and on environmental taxes. The environmental charge costs the environment because packaging ends up like garbage in nature but is graduated from the return share - its higher return share, its lower environmental tax. The environmental tax is SEK 4.36 per person. unit packaging and a powerful instrument to ensure a high return share. The environmental tax applies both to reusable packaging and to disposable packaging. On the other hand, the basic fee is only levied on one-off packaging, regardless of the return share. The charge is a clear discrimination between other similar products, subject to the type of packaging. The base charge is clearly distorting competition, as the Competition Authority has also pointed out. The distortion of competition causes social losses both in the form of higher prices to consumers and because it inhibits operators in the business world. Border trade in mineral waters is close to 100 million cans each year, and it is obvious that the basic charge is 1 DKK per year. box forms an essential part of the price difference. This border trade clearly shows that the basic charge causes losses for the consumer, losses for Norwegian goods trade and losses for Norwegian mineral water producers. Also, the imported shower boxes are not included in the return system. Thus, the boxes become ordinary waste. It also causes a loss for the environment. The environmental justification for discriminating disposable packaging on a fee-based basis has expired on date. Disposable packaging has a high return share and is recycled environmentally friendly. There are also aspects of the use of reusable packaging in relation to the environment that are unfortunate, including: transport costs, energy and chemical use in the case of washing and safety reasons associated with bottle cleaning. In this context, the maintenance of the levy cannot be justified for environmental reasons. The argument against the removal of the basic charge has been based primarily on the fact that the fee protects part of the operators in the brewing industry. That's not a sustainable argument. The distortive nature of the charge is, on the contrary, an argument for its elimination. It may also be good to bear in mind that our neighbouring country Sweden does not have such a basic charge. Nevertheless, there is a high share of recycled packaging in Sweden. Nor does Sweden have a much higher import share than Norway, nor did the removal of the basic charge in Sweden lead to a dramatic change in relation to the use of the type of packaging. The Co-operation Board has the ambition to review the charging system for facilitation, simplification and clean-up. The Sem declaration states that charges for goods placed on the market should be reduced. The removal of the land charge meets all of these criteria. However, the agreement with the Workers' Party on the revised budget does not eliminate the base charge in 2004. It is therefore gratifying that the parties to the Government propose the removal of the basic levy with effect from 1 January 2005 and that it should be given a majority. It contributes to lower prices for consumers, more fair competition, less borderline trade and foreseeable industry framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1607	A very large number of additions to Norwegian industrial enterprises experience a very demanding everyday life. Many of them are outlawed, even more have lost their work. For those who are involved, for their families and the communities around these industrial environments, it is currently dark. Unfortunately, this is the situation of the three heaviest industrial municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane, Flora, Høyanger and Årdal. The problem is particularly serious because dominant companies in the workshop and aluminium industries have removed or have warned that hundreds of jobs should be removed in a short time. At Kleven Florø AS has approx. 500 more lost work during approx. Six months. In Årdal, Norsk Hydro settles approx. 500 jobs in the period up to the end of 2006. We can certainly say that the reputable industrial environment is faltering. There should be little empathy to understand that problems are putting people and local authorities on a hard test. The three municipalities have applied for and received conversion status. They actually got it before Norwegian Hydro in the beginning of May decided that 355 jobs in Årdal and Høyanger will be lost by March next year. The working party has taken a clear position on this matter. In such an exceptional situation as the community is up to, the Government and the Storting must also actively contribute to the creation of a new enterprise. Two departments have been involved in the processing of the application for state funds for conversion to the three municipalities. The government has proposed a small amount for starting the conversion work in 2004. I remember applying for funds for conversion for the period 2004-2008. The application is now complete. For the Workers' Party, it is very important that the Government follow up with the promise to the conversion work in accordance with the plan drawn up. It will be crucial for municipalities to be able to succeed in creating new and alternative activities. The new agreement between the Government Party and the Labour Party ensures a package of measures for Årdal and Høyanger. It is positive, and it provides a good basis for the demanding work being done to bring about new industrial start-ups. The point is that, at the same time, two fronts must be invested: conversion through state and county funds and a separate package of measures for Årdal and Høyanger, as a result of the dramatic degradation undertaken by Norsk Hydro. Prime Minister Bondevik wrote to the Labour Party on 13 May this year about the peculiar problems that Flora, Årdal and Høyanger are now facing. I choose to interpret the Prime Minister's wording as an declared willingness to follow up the matter in an active way. The Labour Party assumes that the Government has a strong commitment to the conversion and renewal work of the three industrial communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1628	The majority of the Committee's comments on emergency networks have raised concerns about the government parties do not see the need for a new emergency network. In this context, I consider it necessary to refer to the Committee on Legal Affairs' unanimous budgetary remarks last year: "The committee refers to St.meld. No 17 Social security - The road to a less vulnerable society and to the comments of the respective parties on a new digital emergency link at the Innst. [[2002-2003]] [[2002-2003]] S. No 9 So far a total justice. I also want to refer to St.meld. No 39 for 2003-2004, Social security and civil-military relations, where the Government expresses the following: "Effective lifesaving and secure effort, especially in the event of major incidents, has an urgent need for a new, predictable and modern high-capacity emergency network." "A break in the relationship between a liaison centre and officials may lead to dangerous misunderstandings and, together with a lack of readmission security, constitute a serious obstacle to the crime prevention work." Government parties take seriously the need for a new emergency link. The work on new emergency networks has been thoroughly investigated, and the government will come back with this matter in connection with the state budget. In this context, I would like to point out that a follow-up to requirements for encryption of analogue systems does not necessarily provide the most forward-looking emergency link here in the country. The cost of encrypting the old analogue link will quickly amount to 700 million. kr. Instead, this will be a good starting point for the entrance to digital reality. The whole of Europe has chosen new digital technologies for its emergency contact. This is not least the obligation of Norway in relation to our close neighbours linked to cross-border actions. An assessment of the so-called zero option, i.e. continuation of existing links is a blank track. It'll put us in a strange light compared to our closest neighbors.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1647	For SV, it is important that we know all the crossroads where we have a cake to divide, also ensure that those who have little get part of this cake. Unfortunately, this government is very little careful with it. I want to ask what is the meaning of the representative Bjørg Tørersdal from the Christian People's Party, who is a government party, when she demands a change of course in this area. For she did so in her article today. She demanded a change in course, because today there are too many people who get sick and outlawed. What are we going to do with that? What do we think people get less sick and outnumbered by? For example, do we believe that this is the case? is it becoming less sick and dissatisfaction with a community economy that will make it fewer who will now take the heavy promises of the nursing homes and fewer teachers in the school? SV doesn't think so. SV believes that if we had used part of the increased wealth we have today, to do something about it, rather than increased tax relief for people with very good finances -- which the Christian People's Party is involved both in this matter and in other matters -- we would have got a better result both for those who need school, for those who need care and care, and for those who work in these professions, because they would have become less worn out and sick. It would have been better for society, because it had cost much less money, and we had got something positive left for the money we had spent. I think, in particular, the Christian People's Party needs to re-examine what they are actually included in both this budget and other budgets. So Tørresdal also says that we have to be better at getting rid of those who don't need special arrangements. I would recommend that we also use that technique when we look at fiscal policy, because that is where we distribute the most to those who need it the least. So to the local economy: for the second year in a row, it is with great disappointment that I have to say that the Workers' Party has made up the revised national budget without getting to one penny for the local government sector. I challenged the Labour Party in relation to this yesterday during the debate on the local economy, and was told that unfortunately it was both the wrong case and the wrong day. I have to ask if this is how the local economy is important only on Thursday and not on Friday. And then we'll notice that. But it tells me that if there's going to be an improvement in the local economy and we're going to get it by the crossroads where it's going to be, where you distribute the money and fight for the crowns and where there might not always be the same amount of them, you need a strong SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1656	In the context of the review of the Biotechnology Act in the autumn of 2003 in Stortinget, there was a debate on guidelines for the use of ultrasound in pregnancy. There were a number of professional organisations that, based in particular on the Government's hearing opinions, responded because it was perceived that there were clear signs of narrowing of the use of ultrasound in pregnancy. Some of the reactions led to the Government’s proposals not containing the same wording. But at least it was a considerable insecurity among the organisations, and in particular the Norwegian Jordmor Association, the Norwegian Medical Association and also the Norwegian Gynecologist Association. For SV, it has been important for the treatment of the Biotechnology Act to address seriously the objections raised regarding the use of ultrasound in pregnancy. We believe that a targeted use should be made, which should continue the offer that has been made between weeks 17 and 19, that no information should be withheld from the pregnant woman, and that the pregnant woman - if there are medical indications for it - should be entitled to ultrasound examinations in pregnancy, and that the studies should be fully reimbursed by the public. For us it was also important not to make it illegal to take ultrasound examinations under other conditions, but to the extent that it is not medically justified, one must in that case pay the examination itself, something else would be unreasonable. For example, we see here today that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen just stresses the need for medical criteria governing the hospital sector, which we naturally fully agree with. If there were other factors, you would get a resource use that was unreasonable. The government is now presenting the guidelines to the Stortinget, but it was too important, before they were presented, to revisit the professional organisations and those who are set to practice the guidelines for daily life. We are very pleased to note that both the Norwegian Earth Mother's Association, the Norwegian Gynaecologist Association and the Norwegian Gynaecologist Association stress that they are well pleased with the guidelines as they are now, that they are clarifying, and that they provide a continuation of the guidelines that have been in place. In addition, quality assurance is provided for studies where there is a need for foetal diagnostics, so that it is possible to be sure to meet personnel with the necessary qualifications and which enable the study to have the professional anchorage it should have. This means that we believe that, in sum, both in general maternity care and further referral to a specialist, with the guidelines available today, are being strengthened. SV is therefore pleased to be able to support the guidelines as they are now, and believes that this will help to strengthen maternity care in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1673	That's so cool, then.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1676	The biggest problem in the Norwegian economy is that the majority of Stortinget has placed oil revenues in foreign shares, and that the value of money has become more important in the Norwegian economy than the real value. Stock speculation with the oil incomes of the inhabitants has not been a success, although the value has increased in the last year. It's a far too insecure investment. More and more economists believe that large investments in foreign companies and minimal investments in mainland Norway are a failure of policy. Societal researchers believe that the pressure on fewer and fewer municipalities is not a solution if you want to have fairer municipal services. In recent days, it has been suggested that I become a trouser. But I do not think it will strengthen neither the Norwegian economy nor the local economy. No, I want more respect for those who are trying to keep the wheels going, and who are trying to maintain the employment we have, despite cuts and ever worse framework conditions. The decision on net wages is a famous decision that could lead to thousands losing their jobs. It is important for the Norwegian economy that we have viable businesses all over the country. This must be expressed when the Storting is dealing with the budget today. Finally, I would say that the Coastal Party is opposed to Norway being sold bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1691	There it is! It was good the president reminded you of it yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1695	In the last year, there has been a significant debate on the framework conditions for the Norwegian petroleum industry, with a particular focus on the level of taxation. The industry itself has put a great deal of effort into assessing the framework conditions of the petroleum industry. It is therefore very satisfactory that the Government of the revised budget has taken a very thorough analysis and presented it to the Grand Duchy. Norwegian petroleum activity will be in a falling curve regardless of the nearest decade. But at the moment, the activity is big and the investments are high, and the possibility of a soft landing is absolutely present. It is therefore gratifying that the Government announces a package of activities in order to maintain the establishment as best as possible. The main measures are the increase in exploration activity, increased extraction from existing fields and not least the reduction of the cost level of Norwegian continental shelf, a work in which the actors themselves play a significant role. The measures proposed by the Government aim to increase competition in order to increase the number of new players, to increase the level of equality between them in relation to the existing and to facilitate the movement of licences. On the tax side, companies with a deficit will be able to get the tax value of the exploration costs paid. We're also in favour of a maintenance of the exemption to 7.5 pst. for four years from the current 5 pst. for six years. This will improve the profitability of post-tax investments in tail production and of increased extraction in existing fields. The Chairman of the Committee from the Progress Party said in her main speech today that she took up the industry's recommendations in this matter. But there is also reason to take inward the investigation that the Government has made in this case. It will then be seen that the Norwegian petroleum tax system is designed in such a way that a normal return on the projects is subject to a tax similar to that on land. Special taxes are protected by favourable deduction schemes. But when the return becomes particularly high, the special tax comes to 50 pst. in addition. The special tax thus gives the country extra income and a greater part of the rent on very profitable projects, while the more usually profitable projects do not receive special taxes. The risk of the industry’s own proposal is therefore that the very profitable will be even more profitable and that it will not have the effect you want on the activity. Norwegian Socket is getting ripe. The time for large projects is over, and much of the remaining resources are in small and less profitable projects. It will then be the right policy, as the Government has also arranged for the marginally profitable projects to be prioritised with tax relief and other activities. So you're adapting the tax system to the type of projects that you're assuming. They turn to and stimulate actors in small and less profitable projects instead of stimulating those who are already large and profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1713	The Minister of Finance, in reply to the Central Party, was concerned that he did not recognise the Centre Party. I want to comment on it. I must also say that I find it difficult to recognize the Right. Where has it become of the good, old, value-conservative Right that was engaged in a decent balance between public investment and private consumption? Where has it been of the Kåre Willochske Right that punishes the culture of greed? Where has it been of the good old Right who listened and supported business in the districts? Where has it been of the Right who considered both capital access, public instruments and long-term interest in industrial policy? We are constantly visited, even in the Central Party, by right-wing rapporteurs along the coast who ask themselves the same question. Where has it become of the right? Now the only mantra left in business policy is taxation, taxation. So if that's how the Right has difficulty recognizing the Center Party, I have to say that it's also hard on our side to recognize the old Right. I think the very balance between private consumption and public investment is an important element. Here today's society has a problem. There is a problem that private consumption is increasing so strongly that it actually occurs at a disadvantage both in terms of public sector needs and in relation to investments in value creation in Norway. It is also one of the reasons why the Central Party is presenting a budget proposal today that is more expansive in terms of public demand than the Labour Party and the Government parties are in charge, because we need to have a different balance in the relationship between public investment and private consumption. There must be an increased willingness to tackle health, care for the elderly, business and school. Then I would like to add a few brief comments to proposal No. 74, from the Center Party, which deals with a ceiling on pensions within the public sector. In the last year, we all cried out loud and wanted to have done something in relation to part of the pension agreements we have seen in the public sector. Nothing has happened. A few days ago we were also informed that nothing has been done in relation to the large pensions that were given in relation to Health South. Then it is time for some clear guidelines on public pensions to be laid down soon. We have guidelines for wages and salaries in the public sector, we have guidelines for all other public benefits, whether travel, diet or benefits in kind, and soon there will have to be a standard for which pension rights and the ceiling for pension contracts in the public sector. That's the background to the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1726	"Gudrun Gisladottir" basic aid and fell in June 2002 at approx. 40 meters deep outside of West Wag Island. This was an Icelandic combined trawler and factory ship of 2,332 deadweight tons and of 71 metres in length. It was loaded with 875 tonnes of frozen fish fillet, partially wrapped in plastic and cardboard. In addition, it had 367 m3 of marine diesel plus 10 m3 of lubricating oil. The coastal works indicate that it is likely to still be on board approx. 275 m3 of diesel. The Ministry of Environment decided that the ship should be emptied of oil by the shipowner by 15 October 2002 and raised by 1 May 2003. As the shipowner did not make satisfactory progress, the Coastal Directorate decided, in consultation with the Ministry of Fisheries, to initiate a state action to lift the vessel and remove it. Bad weather and more complicated technical challenges than provided that the ship was raised on the seabed only in May this year. It was then found that the vessel had a flange of approx. 35 meters up to 2-3 meters wide. In addition, other major damage to the hull, such as holes in the engine room, holes in one of the cargo spaces and holes in two diesel tanks, was found. In addition, leakages have been detected in the tanks of the vessel which were to be filled with buoyancy air. This meant that the method of cancellation chosen could no longer be used. The Coastal Directorate now classified the ship as a wreck, and the Government announced by letter of 28 May this year that the recommendation as outlined in the revised national budget was no longer practicable. The risk of further contamination and spillage due to oil and cargo would be too high. Therefore, the Government chose to take action to empty the oil, and a contract has been signed to do so. This work will start in a few days and will be considered necessary, regardless of the further fate of the wreck. The disposal of oil, as well as measures to address any congestion problems related to the cargo, in particular plastic and cardboard, will be addressed within the budgetary framework of the Coastal Plant adopted today. However, there is no budgetary coverage for lifting the wreck. In this way, it is not possible to meet the proposal for a decision on cancellation without the Storting granting the necessary resources. I note, however, that the proposal on the table reflects a deep concern about the pollution hazards which the proposers consider to be present and which they aim at through the proposal. My follow-up will be to review both the technical condition of the vessel and the risk associated with an uplift, including the risk that the fish load would release freely from the wreck if the wreck did not withstand the stresses during the uplift. Once these technical and environmental assessments have been carried out and the oil has been removed, it would be natural for the Government in the 2005 budget to come back to the matter in the form of a possible draft budget. The costs are likely to be relatively high, compared with the costs already incurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1754	It is necessary to say something more about the hospital economy at the end of this debate. We have repeatedly been presented with the fact that the reconciliation between the government parties and the Workers' Party almost solves the containment problems facing hospitals and regional health businesses. Then it is necessary to say that it is relatively obvious that it is not the case. We are now in a situation where, after having seen the new hospital reform in action for some time, we have received a system of mutual disclaimer from both the politicians - who can refer to the governments of regional businesses and send the ball there - and from the governments, who are in a situation where they can promote cutbacks without being subject to any direct influence from people and from employees, in the same way that elected politicians were when hospitals were a municipal responsibility. What we've seen, however, is that this has triggered a huge local commitment in many places. As a result, many of the cut proposals that have been promoted have not had the consequences they would have had if they had been fully implemented. Now, however, the economic situation is becoming so serious in several of the companies that although there is no doubt that there is a potential for making things better in many places, there are bills that cannot be covered within the framework that is now on the table. Then we are in the situation that an increase of NOK 0.5 billion, which is being knocked through today, of course, is a step in the right direction. However, it is not close enough, because it is combined with the fact that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties confirm that the balance sheet requirement is to be maintained by the end of 2005. This balance sheet requirement effectively reduces the value of what is granted extra today. I am particularly surprised that this has not been taken into account either by the Labour Party or by the Advance Party, for example, in the past. representatives of the Workers' Party have said publicly that this was something they wanted to see. Several individual initiatives have also been taken by the SV in this budget, for example: with regard to the distribution of inequalities between health regions, which I am surprised at the fact that no more lots have joined. Among other things, a combined Western bench, because Health West is the region that comes out the worst, has said that you want to do something about it. Now that we have proposed faster and complete cohesion, we have not received support from anyone other than the Centre Party. The same applies to our proposals for an increased commitment to the treatment of drug addicts. There it is obvious that the capacity is not good enough, but this has been prioritised in the conciliation. It has been said several times today that what is being done should help to avoid any change in patient treatment. It has been said despite the fact that we know that this is not the case, and that the majority today adopts something that one with open eyes knows is not going to be enough to avoid that kind of conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1767	State Council Ludvigsen's posts made me ask for the word again. I just have to point out the fact that today it is actually on the day two years since the boat that has become the only moment of tension in this debate about revised, listed in Lofoten. It was June 18th, two years ago. This is a matter that is developing into a scandal in many ways. State Council Ludvigsen has now explained the process which means that the boat has still not come up. The issue is being discussed for the Stortinget in the revised version, and it is proposed to allocate 19 million. kr. In a letter to Stortinget on 28 May, the Council of State said that he had made the decision to cancel the boat. He does not in any way explain what the cost of raising the boat is. What Svein Ludvigsen says in his post, as a comment on the proposal that is on the table of the Stortinget today, in my opinion - if I do not misunderstand Ludvigsen - means that this boat cannot be raised this summer. In the revised national budget, the Ministry itself points out that this is problematic, and that there is also considerable additional costs involved in the implementation of the multi-stage emptying and uplifting operation. If the ministry is going to come back to the Storting in the budget for the autumn in order to make a final decision on the lifting, that means that the ship must be in winter. The Ludvigsen is fully familiar with the fact that it is the last winter as, among other things, has caused the ship the great damage that is now being seen. Of course, it would have been preferable for the Storting to have now given the appropriations needed to complete the entire operation in the context of the revision. But that's not what Stortinget has gotten for, because the department just says in a letter that they've changed their mind. They also do not account for the cost of raising the vessel, although it is very likely that there will be costs in excess of 19 million. kr that is granted today. The government's clear message today from the majority of the Storting is that on the basis of the environmental assessments previously made, and the recommendations made by the State's pollution authorities, it is believed that it is right to lift this ship to which it is so exposed. Then the government's task must be to do that, and then it will get to the Stortinget on the first occasion to provide the necessary budgetary coverage for what this operation costs. The size has not been given any assumptions today to grant other than the 19 million. Mr Ludvigsen had initially entered the draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1780	The consensus between the Government and the Workers' Party is a victory for the revised National Budget as the Institute. The changes are moderate in relation to the Government's proposals. The revised national budget is not intended to be an alternative state budget. Nor should it be a rematch on the state budget. It's a fact that hasn't always been as obvious, I'll say after observing the previous RNB round in Stortinget. The government’s economic policy can continue with only minor adjustments. The Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left have taken the strain of tight fiscal policies. Close fiscal policies are synonymous with anti-populism. It has not been free of political costs to be the political force in Norway that has to say no to dozens of good gifts to voters, who the opposition is fighting to direct. It may be tempting for someone and everyone to give more in children's home affairs, pension matters and self-interest. So why do the government parties choose the heavy road? We do it because in no area it is more important to succeed than in our jobs. There are as fundamental needs as self-respect, security and social security. And what are the assumptions of the workplace? This applies primarily to the employer’s place of action. The government has ensured that inflation is under control, has provided a competitive crown and is now reaping economic growth that all forecasts indicate will continue. Unemployment has been lower than in previous recessions and declines gradually. At the next option, the Government will show you a recipe that works. It is important to inform the individual that there is a need for it. Working for more and more is job no. 1, and this is the government's nobility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1787	The representative of Hill-Marta Solberg justifies his lack of willingness to comply with the prudent request of the Minister for Fisheries that the Stortinge has not been required to make the necessary allocations in order to have the ship lifted. That's not right. The cancellation was informed in a letter on 28 May that a cancellation would involve significant additional costs. In addition, other arguments related to the risk that would arise in the event of a cancellation have also been submitted as justification for the Government’s conclusion. In other words, it would have been quite possible, if the representative Hill-Marta Solberg had wanted to do so, to address this question in the negotiations that took place on the revised national budget, and to make the necessary appropriations to be able to lift the boat. However, there are also other important arguments put forward by the Minister for Fisheries, namely that it is also necessary to assess the risk associated with any increase. I would ask the representative, Mr Solberg, to reconsider whether it would not be reasonable, not only for budgetary reasons, but also on the basis of an environmental risk assessment, to allow the Minister for Fisheries to carry out the assessment he requested in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1798	I record that the representative Tørersdal of the Christian People's Party has not intended to answer what a turn of social policy will mean, and whether there is going to be a turn away from the Right-wing need test of those who have the least, to help people who have it difficult, so that you can recover health, and so that you can get a job, for those who think you're going to be healthy and get work from getting poor must believe again. Otherwise, the new Minister of Social Affairs and Employment, as far as I know, will tell us what this is all about. I want to say it so that there is a Christian People's Party very much to go on for the time being. It doesn't take much to do it better. There's a point in this revision that represents little money, but that means an infinite amount to them. There is on page 229 in the setting, if you should be interested in browsing it. It's called Grant for crisis response. What we know is that someone is in such a precarious situation that they actually have to run away from home, because life and health are threatened. Some of these women, which are mostly concerned, have to look for a crisis centre. The crisis centres have a bad economy, and in Oslo we know that there is a crisis centre that specifically welcomes women from minority communities who have to escape from coercion and family conflicts. This crisis centre is now at risk of closure. SV has tried to add 2 million. kr in this revision, and it would not be difficult for any party to manage to find a way to recover this crisis centre. We encourage these girls to get out of this situation, and we know that they're all alone when they do. We know that they have to have a roof over their heads, and that they have to have someone to protect themselves. Shall we now sit here and review this budget with all this money, and not manage to find these $2 million to save this offer for these girls? For SV, it is totally incomprehensible that neither the Government, the Workers' Party nor the Advance Party are involved in this. It's actually just the Coastal Party that might think of being part of this proposal. I'll pray a little bit for this. I think that if we're going to be able - to say it this way - to see us in the mirror afterwards, we need to know that we've at least raised the one crisis response that these need, over the summer and up to a new budget where we're getting a new funding mechanism for crisis centres in place. We have to be able to allocate the $2 million today. I don't think that would threaten either the budget balance or Norway's economy in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1805	The representative of Kjästad just now said that the fight against unemployment was the government's nobility's mark. That is probably a good reason why we have abolished the nobility many years ago in Norway. The nobility's husband is hard to imagine when we have unemployment of over 100,000. And, unfortunately, as the forecasts show, it's going to be over 100,000 -- if the government gets what it wants -- all the years to come. So it means an abuse of human labour that there is no husband, and if this is a nobility mark, it says a lot about replacing this government in 2005. What made me take the floor was this discussion about "Gudrun Gisladottir" and the authority given to the government today. The situation is that this trawler has been at the bottom of the sea for two years and should be raised. The matter has been a little back and forth in this house. It has always been a prerequisite from SV's side that there was enough money to lift this boat. So there's an allocation of 19 million. NOK to this. The fact that the Coast Guard and the Council of State are now drawing this into doubt is another bowl, and we have, together with a majority in this room, felt the need to give an authorisation to lift the boat. The budgetary implications of this in the longer term will be restored by the Storting. A budget exists today which must be used. If you need further funding beyond this, there is today an authority that the Council of State can come back to the Storting, and a majority will then take a positive view of such a commitment. What's important is that the rise occurs during the summer months. Letting it wait until the harvest means that it will be a whole new year, with perhaps unfortunate consequences for the wreck where it is lying, relative to pollution. That is why the Stortinge today gives this authority. It means, in my opinion, that the Council of State does not have to do anything more hokuspokus out of this than this authority is being given here, and that the Stortinget will get back to how much money it will be about. After what I understand, it's an affordable sum. As far as I know, it's about some tens of millions. It may cost more, but in any case it will be affordable in relation to the pollution hazard the trawler actually represents. It means, in my opinion, that there is no need for further clarification of this from the majority of the population, because at my discretion, as I said, the mandate is more than good enough for the Council of State to do what he is asked to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1812	Hill-Marta Solberg has spoken twice and gets the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1816	I find it necessary to ask for the floor after hearing Mr Sanner's statement, where he is amazed that the subject has not been dealt with in the budget negotiations. What is really wonderful in this matter is that the government parties have not at all dealt with the matter. They have not commented on the letter of the Council of State, nor did they comment on the majority in the vote in which the majority of them express disagreement in the decision of the Council of State. They have chosen to close their eyes, ignore the whole matter and hope that it will be quiet about "Gudrun Gisladottir". But that was hoping too much! It's quite strange to hear that the representative Sanner is now saying that it would have been just been to raise the question, so you could have settled the necessary appropriations. Yes, what are the necessary appropriations? The dilemma is that we have not been presented with it. I will, as the representative Djupedal did a little while ago, express our will in this matter and empower the Council of State and the Government to carry out the operation. So the Storting must be on the first occasion -- the Storing is disintegrating today, so we don't have occasion next week -- come back to final allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1823	Unemployment in a society cannot be assessed solely on the basis of the totals. It is also a question of how unemployment had developed without the policy of this government, for example. if the SV's prudent fiscal policy had been allowed to have a majority in this Chamber, and what had resulted from it. SV's conservative fiscal policy, it's known as no season.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1828	For the sake of order, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the rules governing the allocation of appropriations, appropriations cannot be granted. The stork grants. The proposal before us is not a decision on appropriations. Nor is there any authority, it is an expression of a wish that the Council of State has said he will follow up to the best of his ability. There is an opportunity to promote the Royal Resolution on Appropriations during the summer holidays when the Storting is not assembled. However, it shall only apply to unforeseen expenditure by the State. Following this debate and following the exchange of letters which took place before the debate, no one can claim that this is an unforeseen allocation. It has been said that the Storting or the lots have not been presented with a need for any cancellation operation. In any case, I recall that SV has asked about it and received a response from the Ministry of Fisheries saying that there is no binding tender for any cancellation, but that it concerns amounts in the order of several tens of millions, and it could be more. That was also the representative Djupedal recently confirmed in his post. However, I can also confirm that the Workers' Party has not asked for any allocation requirement for any further operations. Now this is with a budget during the summer, probably not the most acute problem. As the Minister for Fisheries has explained, it is the Coastal Agency that has the technical responsibility to respond to the question of whether any cancellation would be environmentally sound. I assume that the Stortinget will not impose on the Minister for Fisheries a lifting that is professionally not recommended, a lifting at a time when the oil in the wreck is not exhausted. But I record that the proposer wants you to come back on the first possible occasion, and of course we will try to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1837	One of the dilemma here, after the Minister of Finance said, is that the Storting cannot take a decision on the allocation that reads "much tens of millions of dollars". We have to have an amount, otherwise we can't make a clean allocation. In any case, I cannot see that the proposal promoted by a majority in the Chamber is contrary to the Stortinge's own rules, and the Stortinge is so free to adopt the proposal if the Stortinge wishes. But I still have some sympathy for what the Minister for Fisheries said about this pulpit not long ago. My question to the Council of State is whether - instead of what he himself suggested - he will be able to present a separate case on this which may come independently of the 2005 government budget, so that the Stortinge has the opportunity to deal with this issue more quickly and independently of waiting for all budgetary deadlines. It will then be possible for the Progress Party to reconsider its support for the proposal distributed in the Chamber, subject to confirmation by the Council of State that he has understood the intention of a majority in this House, not least on the basis of the majority comment contained in the vote on the revised budget. If the Council of State can confirm its honest intentions in this matter, confirm that he will do so and quickly bring his own case, we will either consider recommending the other proposers to turn this into a transmission proposal, or consider not to support the proposal, based on the information just provided by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1844	As I explained in my previous article, I take inward the concern that the proposal reflects, and the perception that is about the environmental risk. On the other hand, the condition of the ship, or wrecked, is such that the Coastal Plant as the competent authority believes that we should do the oil discharge before we possibly do anything more with the wreck. That is why we have implemented it. So, as I explained in my statement, the cost of these operations, what has been carried out and what is to be done now, is coverage within the decision that is being made today, and the budgets that the Coastal Agency has. But a cancellation operation beyond that requires extra appropriations. I have not stated or mentioned any number, and it is because I have no desire from the Parliament to indicate to any tenderers what amount we consider to be relevant. But as I said in my post, there will not be immaterial costs compared to what has already happened. I still feel that it is not possible for me to take action without a decision on the allocation in Stortinget. What the representative, Siv Jensen, is asking is whether we can promote our own case outside the budget proposal. It's possible, and we'll consider doing that, so that in the meantime we can do the technical and technical assessments of the state of the wreck and the environmental risks. Once the professional authorities have made their recommendation, we will come back to Stortinget with a possible proposal for cancellation, and on the appropriations that will then be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1855	Øystein Djupedal has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1858	I'll give you two short notes. One was "SV's springy fiscal policy", which I really thought was a good expression. If it shows our impatience that we can't tolerate over 100,000 unemployed, that's right. Then I'm going to promise to be a constant caregiver all year long, because this we can never accept or tolerate from SV's side. The second was "Gudrun Gisladottir" one more time. I must say that I am very surprised at Siv Jensen's behaviour here. If you are in favour of a joint proposal like this, you are in favour of this joint proposal. Postponing this to a new case means that it can be submitted for treatment in October at the earliest. Then the whole summer has passed, which was the point of this proposal. That trawler should not lie a new winter in the storm in North Norway, so the way to treat this from Siv Jensen's side is very unprofessional. On our part, we feel no other need than to give the Council of State the authority contained in this proposal. That's $19 million. kr there, and there's a significant start to get to this. If it turns out that more is needed than that, as it turned out in response to SV's group, we're prepared to attend and grant this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1865	I just felt the need to clarify what I said in my two previous posts. The appropriations entered in the revised national budget have been allocated to the operation we were in the process of raising, and what we need to do with the discharge of oil in order to minimise the environmental risk. So that amount is used. Every operation beyond that, we need to have our own allocation for it. As I read the allocation regulation, and as the government assesses it, we have to come to Stortinget with a proposal. It is not possible to do until the Stortinget is assembled in October. Then I have tried to be present in relation to the request that came from Siv Jensen. That's the practical way I see we can handle this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1870	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1-5. [[See page 3540]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1885	The Financial Committee has held Document No. 8:73 from the Party of Progress for consideration, and it has also been submitted to the Ministry of Finance, by the Council of State of Erna Solberg, for an opinion. All lots, except the Party for Progress, declare that the proposal is annexed to the Protocol without any further decision being taken at this stage. However, the majority have some different approaches and reasons for doing so. SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party agree on a note on which the starting point for non-discrimination is determined not to be present, while the government parties have their own starting point for participation in the majority. One of the problems of the proposal presented is that it does not clearly indicate how to implement any non-discrimination between the daily press and the weekly press. This could be done in three ways. One way is to remove the exemption from newspapers and the magazines to which the exemption applies today. The other way to do that would be a common reduced rate for day and week presses - there has been a rate of 6 pst. or 12 pst., which is common in some other countries. The third option will be an exemption for both the day and week presses. The problem with not specifying which of these models you want is that they give themselves very different results. There will be a very large difference between a model that involves a tax increase for the daily press and a model that only means a reduction for the weekly press. In particular, the first two models, i.e. either a full exemption or a common reduced rate, will produce dramatic results both for local viewers in many places around the country, for no. The 2 newspapers in several of the cities and for national newspapers. It has been pointed out both by the proposers and by the government parties that a way of remedying this situation could be increased press support. We see this as a dangerous way to go, because press support is a far more unpredictable tool than a VAT exemption, and because we have seen, by this summer at the latest, that press support is a system for which there is a constant political struggle and which makes the framework conditions for many media companies very unpredictable. It is SV's view - and we have received support for that view from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party - that there are so many differences between day and week press both in terms of social function and tasks, areas such as editorial material and priority, the type of advertisers that advertise on these different media, and also reader groups, that it is not natural for competition reasons to say that there is a basis and a need for them to be treated in a non-taxable way. Of course, you can raise your own discussion about the level of VAT on the weekly press, but there is another debate. We have as our starting point that it is important to protect the exemption from the daily press, that the daily press has its own and important social function that is not in the same way provided by the weekly press, and that there is therefore a basis for saying that these two can be treated differently. With that, I would recommend the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1908	This issue is about the current discrimination between weekly newspapers and newspapers in the VAT system, and the proposal is about asking for equal treatment. The weekly paper is scheduled for 24 p.m. VAT, whereas the daily press has a so-called zero rate. The question of full duty on weekly newspapers was considered in connection with the introduction of the VAT Act in 1970. The zero rate for newspapers was reached at the same time. The zero rate implies that businesses with newspapers and subscription journals shall not be calculated for the value added tax payable on the remuneration of the newspaper or periodical, while the activity has the full right of deduction for the input VAT on its acquisitions. This is a particularly favourable scheme, involving indirect subsidisation through the VAT system of this type of activity. The amount of subsidisation is estimated at approximately DKK 1 billion in an investigation by the Association Norsk Ukepresse and the Law firm Steenstrup, based on the situation in 1997. By comparison, the volume of the slightly more targeted press support scheme in 2004 is 307 million. kr, i.e. around one third of the subsidy in the VAT system. It may also be mentioned that the Tax Committee proposed to abolish the zero rate scheme for newspapers. To this end, the sample stated that it could not be seen that there were any good reasons for having this type of subsidy in the VAT rate and that any subsidy should be made in other ways. Non-discrimination between newspapers and the weekly press can be achieved in different ways. An alternative is to remove the zero rate rule for newspapers, another option is that the daily and weekly press both receive a reduced rate, and a third option is that the weekly press also has a zero rate scheme. I think, like the rapporteur, that it is a little strange that the proposers do not say anything about the solution they want, as the different options obviously have quite different effects. The Government Parties point out that if the zero rate system for newspapers is to be amended or terminated, an enhanced press support scheme could be an alternative way of supporting the newspapers entitled to such aid. Any non-discrimination between the weekly press and the day-press will in any case have considerable progeny implications and should, where appropriate, be included in a broader assessment of VAT legislation and in relation to budgetary processes. The parties to the Government therefore agree that the proposal should be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1925	On 28 September 2001, the government’s media release, in the service of freedom of expression, was presented. The Communication states that it should, on a general basis, address media policy objectives and instruments, including direct press support, state advertising legislation and the VAT exemption for newspapers. The message refers to the review of the same issues by the Daily Press Committee. The suspension of the Daily Press Committee expressly presupposes that the Ministry should carry out an independent assessment of the issues relating to the weekly press and the imposition of VAT, because the sample did not find it natural, on the basis of its mandate, to decide whether the weekly press should also be exempt from VAT or to have a lower rate. In the media message, the government says that it places the decisive emphasis on the assessments made by the Daily Press Committee, without making a separate assessment of the VAT question in relation to the weekly press. This means that the weekly press is not included in an overall assessment, either in the Daily Press Committee or in the media release. Nor has the issue of distortion of competition been assessed. It should be clear to everyone that there has been an approximation between the weekly press and the daily press in terms of content. This is particularly evident for the large unemployment papers, where lifestyle-related entertainment has increased, especially during weekends. The Competition Authority is quite clear about this, and says in a letter to the Department that the papers and the weekly newspapers compete with each other for both readers and advertisers, and that they appear as alternatives to each other and should have the same framework conditions. As regards meanings for language development, literacy and literacy, there is nothing to suggest that newspapers are more important than weekly newspapers. In Western Europe, in addition to Norway, only Denmark is discriminated against. All other countries treat newspapers and leaflets equally, with a VAT rate ranging from 0 pst. until 22 pst. This is part of the background for the Progress Party to address this matter. In our view, equal cases should be treated equally, and we cannot find either cultural or linguistic arguments to maintain discrimination. I note with some satisfaction that the government parties in their comments choose not to argue against the proposal, but are content to refer to the progeny consequences and a broader assessment of the VAT legislation. They also want to link it to the budgetary process. The Council of State does the same in its letter. When she concludes that she will not support the proposal at this stage, I take it as a sign that it will be possible to find a solution at a later stage, possibly in the context of a review of the entire VAT code - otherwise a review that is particularly necessary. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1944	The representative Per Erik Monsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1959	Then we are ready to vote on the matter no. 1-6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e1980	A total of 75 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 3, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 4, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 5, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 6, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 7 and 8, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, 9-11, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 12 and 13, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on the proposals No. 14-19, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 20-24, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 25-32, by Mr Jensen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 33-49, by Mr Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left, 50-52, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, 53-60 and 74, by Mr Lund, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 61-72, by Steinar Bastesen, on behalf of the Coastal Party, proposal No. 73, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 75, from the president. The proposals are included in the vote, with the exception of proposals Nos. 73-75, which is distributed in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 61-72, from the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e2591	The proposals are then put to the vote. 53-60 and proposal No 74, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e3187	The proposals are then put to the vote. 50-52, from the Center Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e3516	The proposals are then put to the vote. 33-47 and proposal No 49, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e5130	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 48, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The government is asking for health companies to have their accounts in balance by the end of 2006. The Central Party has announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e5147	The proposals are then put to the vote. 25-32, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 25 sounds: "The 2004 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner223Other training60Aids to landlines, increased by 12 000 000 from DKK 137 403 000 to DKK 149 403 000240Standing schools, etc.71 Capital grants, granted by 10 000 000251School training70Technical vocational school, increased by 18 800 000 from NOK 266 187 000 to NOK 284 987 000254Advantages to adult training Fund capital, granted by 4 000 000 000 000440Police Directorate-General for Police and Länsmann's seat Supplement to marketing measures abroad, granted by 200 000 000 000 1020The Swedish Research Institute 1Operating expenditure, reduced by 3 000 000 000 from NOK 216 620000 to NOK 213 620 000 1320 State road services [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[autodiesel fee]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e5746	The proposals are then put to the vote. 20-24, from the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6007	The proposals are then put to the vote. 14-19, from the Advance Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6419	The proposals are then put to the vote. 12 and 13, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6481	The proposals are then put to the vote. 9-11, from the Advance Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6550	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7 and 8, from the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6614	We shall then vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The 2004 State Budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCrons1320 Road Administration of the States [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4320)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6670	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The 2004 budget shall be amended as follows: Cape VerdePostFormålKroner700Ministry of Health [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4023)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6747	We shall then vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government asks the Government in the context of the 2005 State Budget to propose to abolish the base charge for disposable packaging from 1 January 2005." The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6764	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The 2004 budget shall be amended as follows: Cape TownPostDestinationCroner732Regional health enterprises [[(see section 4.4). cap. 1710)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6841	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. The Central Party has announced their support for these two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6846	We just support proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6853	Then we vote first on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: "The Government is asked to incorporate the following into the Department's guidelines for ultrasonic studies: Ultrasonic studies in general pregnancy control include: Routine study in week 17-19. Ultrasonic studies on medical indications. Ultrasonic examinations at the request of the pregnant woman or at the recommendation of the doctor/ midwife." [[also early in pregnancy]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6880	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government asks the Government to promote a state budget case in 2005 which assesses the possibilities for combining the yard's need for commissions with the restoration of old steel boats."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6895	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 73, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6898	Having listened to the debate today on this proposal, it has emerged that there is a clear majority in favour of the proposal, but after first listening to the request from the Council of State for transmission and then also from the co-rapporteur, the Committee on Petitions wishes the proposal to be submitted. Due to the requests to base the debate, I propose that the proposal be submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e6903	The proposal is then converted into a transmission proposal and the text is amended as follows: "It is recommended to the Government to ensure that the trawler Gudrun Gisladottir, which is sunk in the Nappstrom and represents a pollution hazard in an important fishing area, is raised as previously foreseen." The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. - It is deemed to have been adopted. It was supposed to be the suggestions we were going to vote on before we vote on the vote. In the subsequent vote, in line with the longer-term practice of the revision of the national budget, the parties are prepared to abstain from the voting they would normally vote on the final vote. This to let go of a very time-consuming and to some extent complicated voting where the result is still given. Today, we also have an additional element: we should probably not challenge the wetting plant unnecessarily! The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion. Before we vote on the motion for a resolution, the President will refer to proposal No. 75, presented by the President. The background to this proposal is the necessary adjustments resulting from decisions taken by the Stortinge yesterday evening on the current year's budget, which are naturally not taken into account in the relevant chapters and items of the present draft decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e7372	There will then be a vote on the vote by the Committee, with the exception of XIX.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e15131	There will then be a vote over the XIX setting, where the Labour Party and the Advance Party have notified that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e15205	During the debate, Mr Monsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "The Government asks the Government to make proposals for equal treatment of weekly and daily newspapers with regard to VAT in the 2005 budget." Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e15227	It was supposed to be the voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e15233	Before the President moves on to the next case, he will read out a message from the Prime Minister's office. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 18 June 2004: The first letter reads: "In the Council of State of H.M. King held at the Oslo Castle on June 18, 2004 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is determined: Council of State Einar Steensnæs and Council of State Ingerd Schou are dismissed from office as members of the King's Council of 18 June 2004 at 2.30 p.m. 14.00.State Secretary Thorhild Widvey is appointed State Council and takes over from the Ministry of Oil and Energy from 18 June at 2.30 p.m. 14.00.Scivil economist Knut Arild Hareide is appointed State Council and takes over the board of the Ministry of the Environment from 18 June at 2.30 p.m. 14.00.The following State Secretaries shall be appointed by courtesy from 18 June 2004 at 9 a.m. 14.00:State Secretary Eirik Lae Solberg, Ministry of Labour and AdministrationState Secretary Eldbjørg Thorsøe, Ministry of Labour and AdministrationState Secretary Kristin Ravnanger, Ministry of HealthState Secretary Lars Jacob Hiim, Ministry of EnvironmentState Secretary Oluf Ulseth, Ministry of Industry and TradeState Secretary Helle Hammer, Ministry of Industry and TradeState Secretary Øyvind Håbreek, Ministry of Oil and EnergyState Secretary Jan Otto Risebrobakken, Ministry of Social Affairs 14.00:State Secretary Kristin Ravnanger for Council of State Dagfinn HøybrätenAssister Director Helge Eide for Council of State Dagfinn HøybrätenState Secretary Jan Otto Risebrobakken for Council of State Ansgar GabrielsenPolitical adviser Elisabeth Aspaker for Council of State Ansgar GabrielsenState Secretary Lars Jacob Hiim for Council of State Børge Branch Director Tone Forest for Council of State Børge BrendeState Secretary Eirik Lae Solberg for Council of State Morten Andreas MeyerState Secretary Oluf Ulseth for Council of State Thorhild WidveyState Secretary Øyvynd Håbreke for Council of State Knut Arild HareideState Secretary Helle Hammer is hereby constituted as State Secretary for Council of State Per-Kristian Fosss from 18 June 2004 at 2. 14:00 and beyond the time Secretary of State Kari Elisabeth Olrud Moen is granted maternity leave." The second letter reads: "In the Council of State of H.M. King held at the Oslo Castle on June 18, 2004 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is determined: Council of State Dagfinn Højbråten assumes responsibility for labour and social affairs. He shall be responsible for the management of the Department of Safety and Health at Work, the Department of Labour and the Department of Administration, the Department of Administration and Budget, the Section for Living and Working Conditions and the Section for Alcohol and Drug Policy in the Department of Social Policy, the Coordination Project, the Department of State, the Office of the Council of Ministers and the Press and Information Unit of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Department of Labour of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and the Department of Labour of the Ministry of Labour and Regional Affairs of the Ministry of Labour from 18 June 2004 at 2.30 p.m. 14.00.Statsrådet Ansgar Gabrielsen takes over the board of the Ministry of Health from 18 June 2004 at 2.30 p.m. 2:00 p.m. At the same time, the Council of State Gabrielsen assumes responsibility for the management of the Department of Municipal Policy, the Department of Services and the Section for Common Affairs of the Social Policy Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. State Council Børge Brende shall take over the Administrative Board of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade from 18 June 2004 at 10 a.m. 14.00, with the exception of the IT Security and Infrastructure Section and the e-commerce and Information Economy Section of the IT Policy Section and the Industrial Public Competition Policy Section of the Enterprise Regulation and Maritime Administration Section. State Council Morten Andreas Meyer is responsible for modernisation matters. He continues to run the parts of the Ministry of Labour and Administration that have not been transferred to the Council of State, Dagfinn Høybräten. State Council Meyer will take over from 18 June 2004 at 2.30 p.m. 14.00 Responsibilities for the management of the IT Security and Infrastructure Section and the e-commerce and Information Economy Section of the IT Policy Section and the Industrial Public Competition Policy Section of the Enterprise Regulations and Maritime Affairs Section of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. State Council Dagfinn Høybråten resigns upon application from the position of Director of the Rikstrygdeverket [[train director]] The President proposed that the letters referred to be annexed to the Minutes - and considered that to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-18.ana.ud2650e15425	Then it remains for the President to thank all members of the Stortinget, the employees of Stortinget and also the press department for the cooperation we have had in the current big session. It has been interesting and challenging, and the Stortinget has taken decisions on the cases submitted to the Stortinget. I hope everyone will have a good and great summer holiday and stay fresh and meet to work actively on 30 September. Then we are going to deal with constitutional proposals, and then everyone has to meet! Thank you for now and have a good holiday.
