ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e38	The representatives of Stepe Skei Grande and Olaf Gedrem, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: From the representative of André Kåkkestad on leave from 11 May to 14 May to attend meetings of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. From the Advance Party Group on sick leave for the representative Per Sandberg from 11 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representatives, for Akershu County Ib Thomsen and for Nord-Trøndelag County Robert Eriksson, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e77	Ib Thomsen and Robert Eriksson are here and will take their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e97	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e108	A multiplicity and credible high-quality media offer is fundamental to a number of key societal objectives. It is fundamental to our democracy that we have a diversity of information channels and a great deal of space for political opinions and debate, that we have critical and pro-active media free from various economic and political interests, that we have a broad dissemination of art and culture, that we have broad access to knowledge of important social conditions, that we have a good entertainment offer based on our own language and our own experience, and that we have an offer for different small groups while building and maintaining a community in this country across everything that divides us. It's in this picture that we need to see the role and position of the NRK. In my view, no single media enterprise in Norway is more important in order to achieve these objectives than the NRC. The NRK shall use its position as unbound to be critical and pro-active combined with credible news dissemination and broad political debate. The NRC will be Norway's main cultural intermediary, give us more knowledge and insight and inform us about important social issues. The NRC will offer a range of small groups, while providing a wide range of high-quality entertainment based on our own society, and being glued to the community of Norway. NRK's own motto 'Some for all. Always’ well describes the combination of width and narrowness to be provided by the NRK. That's why it's easy to join much of what the Minister of Culture says in his presentation. There is full agreement from the Workers' Party on the requirements for playing Norwegian music in the NRK. It fully supports the objective of subtitling people with hearing impairment, programmes for different minority groups, and, not least, it fully supports the objective of increasing participation for children and young people. But here the Minister of Culture opens open doors, because here the NRK already has plans that they are fully implementing. The Minister of Culture also gets full support from the Workers' Party when she finally cuts through and makes sure that Nordland gets the local TV coverage that we here in the Stortinge for the longest time have foreseen, a matter that she did not long ago oppose. Nevertheless, there are some very key issues that the Minister of Culture does not address. The reason why we want to have a debate on the NRK at least from the Workers' Party was that the Minister of Culture and the Ministry of Culture no longer believed that the NRK should have a rating and a high level of appreciation as one of its core objectives. We totally disagree with that. Nevertheless, we agree that the NRK should take care of the narrow programmes. State Council Selected City of Reply Haugland says in his statement: "It is clear that the NRK must be very uproaring in the people. But listener and viewer recordings cannot be the only success criterion for a non-commercial public broadcaster.’ So there's no problem with joining. But broad uptake must be an important objective for a wide range of public broadcasters. If the NRK doesn't have the width and the upswing you're betting on, I'm afraid the upswing of the NRK, including the narrow programs, will be even smaller – the break-up and the license payment will be even smaller, and it's not always easy to say what's wide and what's narrow. This is where the NRK itself has dared to bet. A program like 'First and Last' with the Skavlan 'ratet', as it is called, was poorly initially, but one ventured to hold out the race and create one of the NRK's greatest successes – while a program that might initially be narrow, such as 'Schrödinger's cat', turns out to be widespread. It's in this combination of NRKs is unique, perhaps the most successful public broadcaster across Europe. The combination, the broad programmes that also lead the audience into the narrow ones, is not only a prerequisite for the NRK to be an informative, cultural and mediating public broadcaster, but also the prerequisite for the NRK to pass. Here I do not think the Minister of Culture gives clear enough answers. I hope she can do that in the course of the day. The second point that is not addressed well enough is funding. The NRK has solid funding in the licence. We do not know whether it is a safe and sustainable way to collect income, so the NRK needs to develop other sources of income. We are concerned, among other things: above the Minister of Culture’s warning of the sponsorship plaque. The last area we think is too poorly treated is the district structure. The local presence is, in our view, a foundation for the integration of the NRK into the population of Norway and among its listeners. Here we believe that there must be a clear indication of that presence. NRK's management and board shall be commended for successful economic governance. It is then important that they retain the financial freedom to improve quality, and in this way it was a clear signal that the bulk of the population in the 2004 budget was opposed to the Minister of Culture's proposal not to adjust the income of the NRC.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e139	The NRK is, by virtue of its history, its daily place in the thousands of homes and by virtue of its central role in cultural policy, a people's ownership that the Storting will need to discuss at regular intervals. Norwegian politicians, like the general public, feel ownership of the NRK, whether it is expressed in joy or in annoyance. This is a ownership and commitment it's important to take care of in the years that come. The state must have an offensive attitude to its ownership and see what the NRC represents. It demands active politicians both in government and in mass. Of course, this must not be exercised in a way that undermines the free position granted to the NRK as an independent share company and the resulting governance mechanisms. When, on this occasion, the Council of Cultural States invites the Storting to exchange views on some key issues, this is a good and appropriate form of work, which provides opportunities for views and input. The review of the issues relating to the NRC’s objectives and clarification of the general programming tasks is useful not only to meet the demands of the EU system, but also in relation to our domestic discussion of the role and place of the NRC in the media image. The right has often pointed out the importance of the need for the NRK to have a lever for development and a good opportunity to actually implement the changes required by a modern media company. We therefore agree with the Council of State's emphasis on the fact that the changes to the Statute must not be designed as a coercive route to prevent innovation and development. The media field is developing rapidly, technologically as well as in terms of content. This requires an offensive NRK, with great ability to convert. The NRK then needs freedom – and to have its owners in its back. The Council of State discusses the demarcation of the public service broadcasting mission through a third: a so-called core area, an editorial area where new media are also involved, and a commercial area, mainly composed of NRK Assets. This is a clarifying and appropriate grip. This makes functions and tasks visible in a good way, based on the distinctions we have to make, be it towards the EU or in relation to the problems we have to deal with at home – among others. invites the State Council of Stortinget, in particular, to express its views on the use of sponsorship posters. The desire for diversity is one of the most important arguments that we have a public broadcaster in our country. So it's a goal that the NRK should look something different than the commercial channels. The fact that the NRK represents an advertisement-free media interface, in this context, is an independent point, which at least some of us know to appreciate very much. The most important issue, however, is the competitive aspects of this issue, which is also the background to the clarifications that are now required in relation to the requirements we meet from the EU. This is a well-discussed issue where no substantial new arguments have been put forward. Consequently, the current legislation underpinning the use of sponsorship posters by the NRK works satisfactorily in the view of the Right. So the right will not require any changes in relation to current practice. When the question is still up, I would like to point out that an institution like the NRK will serve to build good relations with other key social actors in our country. This is also true in relation to business. Although the NRK is clearly not going into the usual advertising market, split layers in order to achieve a national lift can also provide good processes in relation to cultural policy objectives, such as building stronger relations between culture and business, which is a good example of the talent competition ‘Kempesjansen’. The Council of State also drew up the editorial principles underpinning the programme activities of the NRK. In addition, she pointed to some of the substantive responsibilities she believes must be attached to the NRC. The right is essentially related to the assessments that were made here, and I am therefore not taking the time to comment on it further. The question of the use of Norwegian music in Norwegian radio and television channels is a recurring issue. Norway has a lot to point to within the music. The exposure is large, many are trained as musicians in our country, and the quality level is high. However, it is obvious that the distribution of Norwegian-produced music is easily marginalised in competition with the imported. This is a large problem area that does not only concern the dissemination in ether media. The situation regarding the placing on the market of Norwegian-produced music in business is also serious, and something we need to look at. It'll lead too far into this problem right here. Let me just say that there are good reasons why Norwegian ether media take a considerable responsibility to contribute to the production and broadcasting of music recorded in our country. However, we are not asking for any illusory policy. One of the most important qualities of music that only starts is that it communicates across borders and cultures. Of course, the use of Norwegian-produced music must naturally fall into a whole that takes this into account. For the NRK, this means that the percentage will of course vary slightly from channel to channel. These are variations that, in the opinion of the Right, lie well within what the NRK itself has to decide. Overall, however, there is no reason to have less expectations about the use of Norwegian-produced music by the NRK compared to the demands we make to the commercial operators. All of the programme areas that we are investing in the public broadcasting mission, not least the field of music, which I have just been in, are competing hard with a large commercial and international media market. This challenges our cultural home track and places our own overall media production on high demands for volume – if we are to be able to put a Norwegian stamp on our media everyday life in the future. So, in extending the discussion on the public broadcasting mission, we should also consider what opportunities we have, and what strategies we will use to achieve our cultural and media policy objectives. The discussion on the NRC must therefore also be put on an international scale in relation to competition, quality and diversity. The councils were concerned about this in their talk of children's programs. NRK's children's programmes compete with 24-hour children's channels filled with meters of goods adapted to an international audience. From the Norwegian side, we have a good qualitative take-over through the long-term efforts of the NRK Children’s and Youth Department, but a significant volume problem will challenge our ability to hold viewers. If we don't master this, having high ideal requirements for the quality and packaging of the program for the children helps a little. These are issues we have in common with other small nations, for example. the Nordic countries. This re-enacts the idea of working to get joint Nordic channels in some areas, for example: a channel for children and young people. The question of a Nordic channel has been raised before, but with other reasons. At previous intersections, traditional Nordic pathways were thought of, where arguments were needed by countries to increase knowledge of the Nordic languages and to strengthen links across borders. Today, the media situation is quite different, and real market needs for narrow or specialised services will grow. This is needed small countries will hardly be able to satisfy each other. Here we have to look for common grips. In this work, the Scandinavian community represents unique possibilities that cannot be overlooked. Nordic-based film production has a lot to teach us about the possibilities here. There are many reasons why we have not previously succeeded with any such channel. Technical prerequisites, needs, costs and legal problems are the main components. The major changes we are now seeing in the media area suggest that it is worth looking at these problems again. Major technical progress, with forthcoming digitisation, opens up multiple channels with flexible and cheaper solutions. The public's expectations of greater diversity and choice drive needs and new markets such as small nations, as I said, will not be able to meet. Of course, a Scandinavian market of an estimated 20 million people will offer completely different opportunities in relation to narrow offers, such as the coverage of small sports. However, one of the most difficult obstacles to a Scandinavian or Nordic channel is of a legal nature. Agreements on the clearance of rights are now structured as national mechanisms for which a comprehensive chapter is to be amended, although it is an advantage that Nordic countries have substantially parallel legislation in this area. With this I want to challenge the Department and the NRK in relation to going to the brink of a joint Scandinavian or Nordic channel offer. What about public broadcasters in Scandinavia taking the initiative of a common clearing house for rights, so that joint efforts were made to build up the possibilities of accessing a Nordic-produced radio and television channel to make the programmes more easily available to a Nordic audience? The considerations to be taken into account here are so important that arrangements should also be assessed from the legislator’s point of view in line with contract licences if practical arrangements are to be made. In its presentation, the Council of State has pointed to central and important ethical standards for good journalism and has underlined the role of the NRC in promoting the freedom of information and the fundamental interests of democracy and human rights to which our society is committed. Freedom of expression and freedom of the media are key prerequisites for the democracy on which we all want to build. The free position of the NRK must be seen in this context. In our country, the writing press and later the ether media have had a strong tradition of self-justice and continuous critical debate on what is good press practice at all times. At a time when new media appear and commercial considerations weigh heavily, it is essential that these traditions be renewed and passed on. Here, editorial management in the NRK has a special responsibility. I am pleased that NRK's management actively participates in the various media forums where these questions are discussed. The NRC needs to set good examples through its programme policy. And here it's not always important to be the largest, it's actually the most important thing to be the best. The weakness of many of the debates taking place in the forums of the press is that they have a tradition of addressing only democratic concerns and issues of freedom of expression. Our time is certainly asking for a debate that is directed towards quality. The quality concept is not a static concept. So we can't decide what quality should be. The quality will have a content that will always take the form of the debates and needs that are being sought at the time. Our input, which comes here, will have to be in the bigger and wider social debate to tell us something about what quality is. But there are some points that still have to be drawn. Quality in NRK context must be different from commercial. It has to be about taking different considerations than just having the most viewers. It has to be about satisfying the need for diversity, including in the case of narrow offers. I see the Workers' Party's points in relation to the need for a broad upturn. I agree. But I hope that when we now get technical opportunities that will give us a width of the channel offer, when we also get other platforms to communicate on, that we have a NRK with strong enough economic back to seize the opportunities that are offered here, to also expand the narrow offer. That was exactly what I was talking about in relation to the question of a Nordic channel. I guess we all want a quality society. It requires a comprehensive quality debate, which I hope and expect the NRK to participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e200	The NRK is in a fine development. The NRK has received a lot of good and commercial entertainment that appeals to people most, and it's like the Progress Party that we're happy with everything that appeals to people most. The NRK has good news and provocative debates, good children's programs, exciting movies, good Crime, a lot of sports, good mixed music and also some good reality programs. The NRK also has advertising – even if you call it sponsorship, it's advertising. If you have a four-wheel device, which has a steering wheel and a petrol or diesel engine, which goes on the road, and which is to transport people or goods, you might say it's not a car, but you don't want to be completely believed in it, because it's actually a car. Sponsoring is, of course, advertising, you just think it's good to call it something else. The NRK is also in the commercial market with products related to the programmes – leaves, clothes, etc., not to forget the SMS market, where you are heavy inside. The Minister of Culture’s statement on public broadcasting and the NRK show that the NRK is becoming more like its competitors – TV 2, Channel 24 and P4. I can also add TVNorway and TV3. There are soon only marginal differences between the NRK and the private channels. What, then, justifies continuing to retain the NRK as a state-owned enterprise, coercively financed by means of a sky-high coercive subscription, also known as a licence? $3.5 billion has now come into being. Without comparison, it is roughly equivalent to the entire hospital debt, which the Stortinget will not erase – of course, a small discretion, but it says something about the size of the hospital debt. To a very small extent, the presentation by the Council of State provides good justification for maintaining the specific position of the NRK. Nor does the programme offer seem to be significantly different from the other channels, possibly except for NRK district missions. It is good that you now have what you have, among other things. in Nordland has paid for for years – it was just supposed to be missing! And another area where you stand out is that there are some more choices in stations within the NRK system. But it's also a natural consequence of the huge resources that the NRK has. I'm calling for some reconnaissance. Why should it be that the state should own, operate and coercive finance the largest company in TV entertainment, news, debate and culture – that is, what the NRK is – when private individuals have actually proven that this they can fix very well? I'm assuming that, for example. there is no one in this room who believes that TV 2 is a channel that is unprofessional, bad, uncultural, etc. Privates have proven they can. Finally, we are talking about public broadcasting in this debate. In recent times, we have seen how politicians are going to adopt what radio channels the listeners are going to listen to. The Minister of Culture and the Government gave P4's concession to Channel 24, otherwise a channel with many contact points to individual members of the Government. It was going to be the new, big public broadcaster, but it became a flop. It now appears that Channel 24 is being reduced to a radio version of TV 2. TV 2 is good enough, but I don't think that's what you thought. People didn't want what the government said they should have, so now the government is back with the beard full of mailboxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e218	The President must admit that he has heard the expression to have the mailbox full of beards, but having the beard full of mailboxes requires considerable imagination.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e221	The reality of media policy is changing rapidly. We are still hearing that we are living in a globalised world, and that the other country Norway is an impossibility, and that we should soon put down all the resistance to so-called development, and fall into the fold – in short: become like everyone else. Do we? With regard to media and media policy, where are the good examples? Where are the good ideals? A lot can probably be better in Norway too, but for those of us who feel serious about freedom of expression and diversity, there's a lot of what we see around the world that doesn't tempt. In Stortinget, there are voices that believe that the market is also an appropriate tool in this field – not to say the only tool – which believes that a licensed public broadcaster is a sort of communist invention, or coercion-funded, as the representative Knudsen says, and that press support is absolutely unnecessary in order to ensure just diversity and freedom of expression. The ones about it. I don't know their ideals, but I'm not surprised if they think Berlusconis Italia and Bush's United States are all right. Does this have anything to do in a debate about the NRK? I'm serious. Looking around today's media world, the arguments for the need to have a robust NRK-type public broadcaster have never been clearer. What changes have we seen over the past 25 years? With the inception of neoliberal ideas, we have seen that newspapers, radio and TV have evolved from critical social guardians to market-oriented products where the possibility of profit and not opinions, shades and diversity is essential. Andreas Wiese says in Dagbladet on 8 May: ‘The moment when the question of what readers should know is replaced by the question of what readers want to read about, journalism is fast in crisis.’ Examples of media management of information and images from detention camps in Iraq, Afghanistan and Guantánamo in Cuba are close examples that should lead to reflection. What is now shown in the newspapers and on TV is the material that the editors around have been sitting on for many weeks. They two hands and get the answer when they are asked why this has not been shown before. What we are witnessing is a form of self-sensorship – not only do they bow to the wishes of the authorities and the rulers; it is equally a business-based self-sensorship. Show pointer: ‘First, when the scandal gets big enough, the opinion of the teasy self-sensorship is broken.’ And he goes on to say, ‘In a market-oriented landscape, we only get the criticism that pays off.’ In my opinion, these are good observations — well then to be able to draw a little bit from what is happening in different countries of Norway, well to know that we have a non-commercial public broadcaster like the NRC. We are not so naive that we do not register or believe that self-sensorship and crowning is a significant premise for commercial media also in Norway. The examples of market adaptation and commercialism are many and clear, whether not as grotesque as the examples from the United States and England or as parodic as the examples from Berlusconis Italia. In such a context, the State Council's response to Haugland's report on the NRK was both liberating and reassuring. And to have said it right away, in these questions, we are essentially in agreement with the Council of State, and she will be able to count on our support in most of these questions. I think Answerstad Haugland is well aware of the media reality we are in, and she has great credibility and confidence in dealing with these matters. We agree with the objectives and ideas of what role the NRC should play in the future. Then, of course, we don't agree with all the detailed questions. We agree that the NRK needs sufficient resources to fulfil that role and meet our expectations. We are aware that the NRK itself wants even more freer lines for advertising and sponsorship than the council wants. In SV we believe that the best thing would have been a NRK without such funding. It represents a disappearing small part of the overall budget of the NRK. If I've calculated correctly, we're talking about the lower edge of a fifty-one bill per. license to release the entire business. We in SV believe that adding this to the licence is unproblematic and justifiable. Not that the NRK is so much influenced by advertising, but I have to say more than once I have reacted to the NRK's own focus on the need for and the desire to run business via Aktivum, and how much time on our orientations that the institution itself has spent telling us about and defending the need for commercial shops as part of the operation. In view of the future, we believe this is undesirable, and I should be very surprised if ESA or other EU bodies will soon use precisely that part of the NRC's business as a justification for further liberalisation of advertising conditions or change of concession conditions for other media that perceive themselves as competitors of the NRC in a market. We believe that the market potential that lies in the NRK needs to be removed. An idea that has not been developed, but which I might still mention, could be that the commercial potential that lies in the NRK might be able to go to other good purposes, in the same way as for example. tipping agents from Norwegian Typing. Not long ago, we talked about digital grounding. Our primary wish was then the digital future in a state-owned regime. Nevertheless, the impact of media policy on the solution chosen remains to be seen. Postdoctor Tanja Storsul has outlined three scenarios for likely development, which I share. One is the victory of liberalism, where digitisation is used as a brake rod for further liberalisation. The arguments are that cultural policy requirements weaken the profitability of markets, and players want to be as free as possible. These signals were more than clear in the hearings, from among others. TV 2s Kåre Valebrokk. The second scenario is the reversal of cultural policy, where technology-neutral regulation is used as an argument to extend regulation to all broadcasting technologies as a guarantee of diversity and quality. This is obviously SV's wish, but perhaps not the most realistic. The most realistic is probably a hesitant compromise, with today's regulation continuing as long as possible and with regulation of NRK and TV 2 while the new additional channels initially do away with this. This is perhaps the most likely development in the future, but I already seem to hear TV 2's pipe on a level playing field with the worst-case channels and the desire for more advertising breaks, more types of advertising, etc. These consequences of the digital network, I believe, should soon be addressed and considered by the Council of State. I'm worried myself. So to the NRK's economy. That the NRK has order in its economy should be a matter of course, but history has shown us that it's not necessarily like that. I therefore agree with the Council of State, which is pleased with Bernander's work in this area. The NRK is Norway’s main cultural and media activities. I will also praise the NRK for their constant search for even better. Earlier today, consideration has been given to the breadth and consideration of narrow programmes. I mean the NRK of course should do both. I think it is admirable that even during a period when TV 2 has concentrated its competition away from NRK against the other commercial channels, the NRK has continued to work with quality in focus. So we still want parts of the NRK as a rating-free zone. However, we see that some narrow programmes, especially in the field of culture, are being placed at a lower time of transmission, in the worst cases being dropped. This should be reversed, and maybe we can hope that there will be room for more such narrow programs when the digital ground net is in place. In the case of children and young people, this is mentioned earlier. We have received a briefing from the NRK, which has the plans clear, and we can say that those plans will be supported both in terms of content and funding from the SV. The same applies to further testing and development of the offer of hearing impaired persons. So to that with Norwegian-produced music, that's been up. We have seen that the NRK will provide statistics that look nice – and of course there is a lot of Norwegian, very good Norwegian, music in the NRK. If we go to TONO and other institutions that also register this, we see that the numbers don't look so good. It's not bad, but I think the NRK should have ambitions that go well beyond what is today. France has, as far as I know, 50 pst. self-produced music, and I think that must be a goal in Norway too. A problem with music and the use of Norwegian music, not least in district shipments, is formatting, which has taken over. This means that after an interview with a Norwegian group, music is completely different from that of the group itself — for example. by a foreign band – because formatting is inside, making it impossible for the local sender to break in and send relevant music. These are problems that we should be able to solve in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e276	I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that Stortinget is given the opportunity to be informed and, at the same time, to express its opinion on the NRK's public broadcasting mission in this way. The Council of State strongly underlined that ‘the NRK is and will still be Norway’s foremost cultural and media activity’. Therefore, this public-owned establishment, which benefits from a licence funding at the level of the entire allocation for cultural purposes in the State budget, should also be subject from time to time to a certain amount of lighting in our elected national assembly, even without this being due to requirements of the European Commission. There have been several such presentations with subsequent debates in recent years, and so it should continue. However, there is also agreement that the State which owns the NRC should be governed primarily at the political level, as the Council of State put it, and that as politicians we should not interfere in the programme activities. This means that there is a limit to how far we can go here in this assembly when it comes to addressing issues directly related to programme activities. However, both the external framework conditions and issues that have a direct impact on the public service remit itself should be submitted for democratic treatment, preferably in the general meeting, but also in specific cases for the Grand Council, as specified by the Council of State. Now the NRK got good grades from the state council. As far as we are concerned, however, there is also a broad welcome about these characteristics of this debate, and something else we would not have expected either. It only underscores what we know, that the NRC as a public broadcaster still has a strong position in Norway. Yes, it does not seem to have been weakened over time, despite the emergence of many good competitors. This, in turn, underlines the wide scope of licence financing, with the exception of the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen and the Progress Party. However, the background to this statement is the desire to further clarify the public service broadcasting mission in order to establish that licence fees do not go to activities outside the mission. It is also desirable from the Biggest side that the mission is somewhat clearly defined in view of the fact that it can be done overseeing the business. The Council of State chose to divide NRK's mission into three levels. While one level covers the so-called core activity and is mainly financed by licence revenue, the other two levels are financed either partially or entirely independently of the licence, through sponsorship, advertising or direct sales of programmes and products through the NRK Assets. Therefore, when the Council of State, in its statement, points out that the boundaries between the commercial activity and the core tasks of the NRC are not always clear, it is difficult to disagree with it. At the same time, it is clear that it is not the NRK itself, but the Stortinget, who in its time has given green light both for sponsoring programs, advertising on text-tv and other commercial activities. It is equally clear that if, for example: the sponsorship should be discontinued, these revenues must be compensated, either by cuttings or by other increased revenues. At a time when the NRK has to make every effort to build itself up against full digitisation, establishment and competitiveness in the ground network, it is difficult to see how this will happen if the income flow is not maintained. The Council of State raises the question of whether the core business should be completely free of commercial terms. I agree that at best it's a pedagogical exercise to explain to people that this is something other than advertising, and that you could have gotten rid of it. On the other hand, this constitutes a form of passive marketing which cannot be compared with more aggressive forms of advertising used in the commercial channels. In any case, it is necessary to lay down clear rules on the use of advertising, whether it concerns restrictions on programmes aimed at children and young people, in relation to what can be advertised, when and to what extent advertising can take place, etc. There are now very strict requirements for the use of sponsors in NRK’s core programme activities, which go both on scale and design. If sponsorship is kept within the current framework, the NRK should be able to live up to the educational challenge of clarifying where those limits go. The Minister of Culture stressed in his statement that public engagement is based on the fact that the NRC should have a social role. To a certain extent, all those who have been granted a concession to perform public broadcasting in Norway. Nevertheless, this is particularly true of the NRK as a whole-time state company with mainly public funding. The NRC has a special responsibility to promote democratic, social and cultural values in society. This involves providing cultural diversity, while at the same time being concerned with editorial autonomy, balance, quality and high ethical standards. This is well described in the State Council statement. The NRK also has a responsibility for the whole country – both for the coverage of the different channels and for the supply of the district shipments. Unfortunately, as far as coverage is concerned, it is not satisfactory today, either for the NRK2 or for some of the radio channels. It is therefore urgent to establish the digital television groundnet, which will greatly correct the bias in the provision of television. For the programme offer, I am also pleased that the Council of State will take steps to ensure that the district offer in Northern Ireland is now fully developed. A very important part of the NRK’s public broadcasting mission is to promote Norwegian and Sami languages and language identity. Our languages are printed, not least from English. It is therefore important that not only the programme offer in the NRC should consist mainly of broadcasts in Norwegian, but it is also positive that the Council of State underlines the importance of the music. The fact that the NRK is to be higher than the commercial radio channels for the dissemination of Norwegian music seems to be a reasonable requirement. I would also like to add that it has to be considered that this is distributed among the different channels, so that the main gravity is not applied to one or a few of the channels and there is a biased distribution. This should be evenly lubricated. The plans for a neo-Norwegian centre of excellence in Sogn and fjords are important as one of several actions to strengthen the use of neo-Norwegian languages in the media. In this context, the Council of State stressed in particular the language policy role of district consignors in the New Norse counties. The centre of competence may be of great importance in this context. In the long term, a look should be made at whether this centre should not be made independent of the NRC, in order to be a centre that addresses its services to all actors in the ether media. The Council of State is also concerned with the specific responsibility of the NRK for the provision of television to children and young people, and this needs to be further strengthened in order to allow the NRK to make a national alternative to the commercial channels. It is not difficult to agree to this, just as when it is said that this must benefit the Sami children. At the same time, it may be appropriate to stress the role and responsibilities of the NRK in relation to those who, for some reason or another, have difficulty getting out of farms to cultural, religious or social events, being elderly, disabled, people with different types of disability or disability, etc. For these, the media offer becomes even more important than for the rest of us, functionally healthy. It is therefore particularly important that not least the NRK has its consciousness toward the whole human being, with material as well as existential and spiritual needs. It is also positive that the NRK has such a high level of subtitles for hearing-impaired persons in its television broadcasts and that the Council of State points out that the aim is to extend this, in particular with regard to live time programmes and debates. The same applies to the assumption that the NRK strengthens the offer to other minority groups on both radio and television. Finally, I would like to address a point that concerns the dissemination of stage art and music by the NRK, so-called transmissions, from those institutions that are largely funded by the state budget. The NRK has an unquestionable responsibility in this area. It is true that this was mentioned in the Culture Communication, as stated by the Council of State, without anyone speaking against it in the debate. No, as far as I've learned, it's a common wish that such transmissions should get started much more than the case has now been. This has also been called for in several budgetary positions in recent years, at the latest in the 2003 budget setting, when a whole committee expressed that: ‘there must be increased pressure on both parties to ensure that the public, irrespective of their place of residence, is able to experience the greatest possible setup’. On this basis, it is reassuring to read in the media that an agreement on such transmissions has not yet been reached. I will therefore, at the end of my speech in this context, ask the Council of State to explain why it will never succeed in realizing this requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e321	The centre party has traditionally been occupied by the NRK as licence-funded, advertising-free public broadcasters, and by the good framework conditions for the NRK to have access to a good product, based on the general principle of broadcasting. The NRK stands strongly with the Norwegian viewers and scors high on many ratings. But I'm in agreement with the Council of State when, in its orientation, it reminds me that listening and viewing can never be the only success criterion in a non-commercial public broadcast. As our foremost cultural and media activity, the NRK has a special responsibility to promote democratic, social and cultural values in society. Governments spent a lot of time talking about children. Ho points to channels that send from countries where the rules allow advertising to target children. It also pointed out that these channels could pose a threat to the production of national children’s programmes and to children’s cultural identity. A strengthening of children's programmes in Sami should be a focus area. The target should be 15 minutes per. day – not 15 minutes per day. week, like now. But where is the Council of State support to the NRK's plans for increased investment in children's programmes? I want to give praise to NRK for the plans to start a whole-day children's TV on NRK2. The Norwegian language is under strong pressure, and a counterweight to all the international TV giants now broadcasting around the day would have been a valuable contribution. The center party welcomes NRK's plans and hopes they will see the light of day if not too long. This naturally brings me to NRK's economy. The size has many requirements for the NRK. The NRC has a particular responsibility when it comes to providing a wide range of news, current information and cultural material. We want the NRK to entertain and inform, we want the NRK to help promote Norwegian and Sami languages, identity and culture, and we want the NRK to send Norwegian-produced programmes. We want narrow programs. We want to keep the district offices around the country. At least 25 pst. of Verbal entries should be in neo-Norwegian – it is a good thing that a neo-Norwegian centre of expertise in Sogn and Fjordane – and not least we want the provision of minority groups to be strengthened. When the Storting is behind these requirements, the Storting must also be willing to provide the NRK with an economic basis that takes care of all of this. We're also leading a digitisation of the archive to the NRK, which will cost a lot of millions. I agree with the Council of State that the lease in the NRK is a source of praise for the economic development of the company, but I disagree when the Council of State gives the impression that the economic framework of the NRK is good enough. During the budget procedure in the autumn of 2003, it became clear that there was a considerable gap between the NRK leadership and the Council of State in view of the economic situation of the company. I am thinking of the presentation of the licence without any price adjustment. The NRK also needs care when planning its business. It wouldn't be unnatural for the license to be price adjusted every year. I'm worried, like many of the other speakers, about the strong signals the council gives when it comes to sponsorship. Well, we're going to have clear rungs in this field, but in today's Media-Noreg, it's often quite decisive to show posters to send out various sports and cultural programs. A ban on sponsorship can have very negative consequences for a range of so-called narrow sports and national and international cultural events. It doesn't just work on the economy. It is good that the Council of State, like the Centre Party, is crystal clear that the NRK will have a fully developed district supply in Northern Ireland by 1 January 2005. I am also pleased that the Minister of Culture took up the situation for the hearing impaired. But she doesn't acknowledge the government's responsibility for further subtitling live television. A consensual committee has pointed out that the government has a special responsibility for developing voice recognition technology. I therefore expect the Council of State, in the context of the 2005 budget, to return to the Stortinget with proposals for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e340	State Council statement on NRK in Stortinget was a useful clarification of NRK as a public broadcaster. When everyone pays a license, we feel that we have a ownership relationship with the NRK. In other words, there are 4.5 million people in the programme committee who have demands, they seem to think something about the programmes that are being sent. The Council of State said it so correctly: ‘Licence financing means that the NRK should not allow market forces unilaterally to influence the programme profile.’ I mean, the NRK runs well. But we all have to take inwards that it costs to make good programs. In particular, it is important to address the profile of children and young people. We who were with the Prøysen and obediently dropped the tear on the piglet, have a very special relationship with the NRK. Our children and grandchildren have a set of choices. The major challenge for general broadcasters in all countries is the international children’s channel, among other things. Cartoon Network, Disney Channel, Nickelodeon, Fox Kids and many others. They put a carpet of programs, from the children waking up in the morning, until they are threatened in bed in the evening. They're always there. These channels will pose the greatest threat to the production of the national children’s programme — and to the cultural identification of children. You might say a lot about the programs that come on these channels, but they don't have live programme managers who speak the children's own language, as a safe framework. All of the international children’s channels are highly commercial and send from countries that have rules for child advertising other than Norway. In order to compete with the international channels, the NRK must increase the transmission time of children. If the NRK is to be the first choice of children, the NRK must be present with a good offer when the children want to watch television. The NRK provides a good and safe alternative for the children. The NRK defends Norwegian culture, language and identity. The NRK will contribute to increased awareness and understanding of other cultures. The NRK delivers quality, short and good. I know that the NRK is going to start a fight for our children. The plans are clear, and that's very good. Therefore, I have to say that it is a little strange that the Council of State almost calls for this in its statement. Governments only have to make sure that they bring money and thus contribute to the implementation of the plans. If it is political will, we must find money! The Council of State indicated in its statement that the NRK is currently receiving sponsorship funds to produce and send certain types of programmes to show sponsorship posters. She estimated that the revenues from the sponsors were between 30 and 35 million. kr annually, and the Council of State wanted to raise a debate in Stortinget on whether the core business of the NRK should be completely free of such commercial expressions. Then, as a sociologist, I ask, what does the Council of State even mean about this question? Is she willing to replace these millions? And what about the international rules and requirements of e.g. sporting events? The Council of State is raising a debate here without making it visible where she wants to go. But I can say from this pulpit that the Workers' Party will keep the sponsorship posters as today, for here the Workers' Party thinks of everyone. Should, for example: The advertising posters on the stands during football matches or on the water in hockey matches were gossiped? And what about all the narrow sports, like, Car sports? How is the NRK going to get the economy to show them, and will the international events accept Norwegian rules? Of course not. The major international events will then have to go to advertising-funded channels, and will the Council of State accept this? Or in another way: will the Norwegian people accept this – when we all feel that we are joint owners in the NRK, which is the channel we have the greatest trust in?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e377	Since 1933, the NRK has been our largest cultural intermediary and has actually managed to keep away from competitors from both domestic and foreign countries. In a world marked by globalisation and commercialisation, I believe that a publicly funded public broadcaster is more important than ever before. The NRC is and will continue to be the leading cultural and media policy enterprise in this country – licensed and non-commercial. It is sometimes said that people believe that both TV 2, Channel 24 and P4 have a stricter requirement for program selection than NRK through the concessions. This isn't right. That is why I agree with the Swedish Broadcasting Council that has assessed the programmes for the NRK and found out that NRK delivers quality products. One thing that concerns me very much is these commercial, foreign television channels for children. I fully agree with the lady who said that she could sleep an hour longer in the morning and feel safe when she knew that her children were watching NRK's children's program. I understand it's a big challenge to compete with both Fox Kids and the other foreign children's channels, but I'm asking both the NRK itself and the Council of State to make a big effort to make children grow up with an identity for both Norwegian culture and language. This means several Norwegian-produced programmes. I'm afraid that our language is confusing, and that a major impact of advertising on children breaks barriers in a way we don't want. How can the licence be directly related to the production of Norwegian children’s programmes? Can the annual licence increase contribute to the provision of an extended offer from the NRC to children and young people? On Friday, May 7th this year, I read an article in the Evening Post entitled ‘Interruption between the NRK and the Opera’. That means it's over on NRK's broadcasts from the Opera scene. This, I believe, is contrary to what the Minister of Culture said in the briefing to the Stortinge last week: ‘The mission of the NRK also includes a responsibility to communicate performing arts and music from the institutions that receive a large amount of government funding from the cultural budget.’ I hope that this disagreement with the Opera will be resolved as soon as possible. I believe absolutely that the NRK should be a mediator of this kind of art and music, to build up the interest in opera until the opening of the opera house in 2008. So to what to me was a joyous message in the Minister of Culture's orientation: full-fledged district TV broadcasts in the region of Nordland from 1 January 2005. Finally, after several years of majority voting in Stortinget in connection with the annual budgets, it has succeeded in getting an impact on an old case. Already in 1996, the NRK licence was increased in order for Østfold and Nordland to receive their own TV broadcasts. Eastfold has received its full broadcasts, and now it is finally Nordland's turn – thanks to the Council of State. The Storting representative Sahl is out in the newspapers and praises his own fight for this matter. But then I just want to remind the representative Sahl of the Christian People's Party that throughout this period he and the Government have gone against the annual majority comments in the budgets on equal transmission time from all district offices. Where did Sahl's fight stand for Northland? In Northern Ireland, we've felt that we've been fed off with just offspring, but now there's going to be speed inside the great building that was ready to make district shipments already in 1998. I get to say, as the district and news director of the NRK said, that we are now putting this matter behind us and starting work on establishing full-fledged shipments in Northern Ireland. The NKR is listening to the Council of State. We have a very good staff in NRK Nordland that will do its utmost to do the task. It will continue to be relevant to exchange substances, not least to the North Norway broadcasts on radio. It is gratifying that the license fees are also channelled into the districts. I think it is right to say that the district offices deliver good goods to the local population.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e409	I want to talk a little bit about the concept of public broadcasting in a new era and in a new media world. A number of recent international studies describe how the concept of general programming is different today from what it was before and what new demands are being made. One would really think that with all the new channels and the freedom of choice you have, the time would be out of state-run channels. What international studies show is that a little bit of the problem is that freedom of choice means that maybe we don't choose that much more. I have 12-13 channels at home, but it's two, max three, that I'm looking at every day. The freedom of choice has not led us to choose so many more, but we are essentially choosing the channel that confirms the perception we already have. I think it's liberals that there's a lot of serious challenges, both to the general-broadcaster and also to our democracy, if it turns out that we're picking out the channels that just confirm the beliefs we've already had. There was a big survey right now where they, for example, had researched the coverage of American television channels before the war in Iraq. All interview items had been recorded for or against war, and it turned out that the distribution was largely one to six. One was negative, while six was too in American channels. This led to most Americans thinking, expecting and thinking to have been informed that the whole world agreed with them that this was a trick. That means that you, as a broadcaster, are also involved in influencing the whole perception of reality. If you don't have a responsibility to see the whole, if we don't have any channels that have objectivity as the ultimate goal, you will eventually end up in a society where people get their information only from the channel that confirms the attitude that you already have, and where no attitude is challenged and no one demands objectivity. That's why I think it's important to have channels like the NRK, which is a public broadcaster, with the ownership and funding they have. Therefore, NRKs have also been subject to specific objectivity requirements. That means that the NRK is also faced with special requirements when they are criticized for not having objectivity. The international studies show that here we have an advantage with a strong NRK, but that we have to be careful to keep that advantage, and that the media should not always be concerned with giving what people want, at least not just to give people assurances of their own opinions and opinions when choosing channels. That's what I was most concerned about contributing to this debate, but I'll mention two things in the end, because I see that I have time for it. The last two speakers have been very concerned about the baby bite, where I think the NRK is exemplary. I have a belief that children are also concerned about quality. If children get the choice, they will also choose it with the best quality. The NRK has still won the battle for the children, and so has the fight for adults. It has to be admitted that even we adults without children as alibi tend to have to see the last series of ‘Blue Mountain’ to make it Christmas Eve. The NRK also has an important role from a left-wing point of view in terms of taking care of both of our targets. It is also a task that should not be taken lightly into account in the linguistic challenge we face in the country. And in view of the outlook you have in the future of Norwegian, it's clear that a generalcaster has a special challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e424	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e427	I'm going to try to answer some of the challenges that have been given me today. At first, I want to thank you for your good performance after I finish. It was also said by the representative Lånke that the distribution should be annual. Now, the Storting has decided that they don't want to get any results from the Government so often. That's why it gets more sporadic than it's ever been. So for some of the articles. First to Trond Giske, who said that I opened doors, including. through what I said about the child-sitting. That's it. I am very pleased with the support that has come from everyone when it comes to child support, and I would like to stress that through the General Assembly I have had a dialogue with the NRK that has led to the child effort that they have now presented both to the Committee and to me. And then we'll see next time how we're going to finance it. My statement was meant to support the plans that I have had a long-term dialogue with the NRK. So to the discussion about what's narrow and what's wide applications. I don't think there's any bad stuff here. Trond Giske said that the Minister of Culture does not give clear enough answers to this with rating and high resolution as a goal in the case of the NRC. Then I just want to point out that I'm using the same wording that former state councillor Ellen Horn used when it comes to NRK opening both for wide and narrow applications. I could have agreed on everything that the representative Gishe said in relation to his definition as well, and what has been said from others here. So I don't think we're going to make a fuss of something that it's not really bad about. So I also notice that the plurality in this room is quite satisfied with the sponsoring business that the NRK has, and I'm going to remember that in relation to the follow-up to that case. I wanted to open a debate about the sponsoring business, but I've got a pretty clear signal from a large majority that one is content with what is, and then I don't intend to go on with that. There's a part of the argument in connection with this that's kind of wondering me a little bit. I just want to underline very clearly: it has never been a choice from my side to say no to, for example. the sponsorship allowed in connection with the New Year concert, the fountain, international football matches, etc. If I had been standing on the speaker's chair and said that I would order the NRK to have a sponsoring company that led to that they would not send football matches here in the country, yes, then I would not have dared to come home. It's totally out of date. But I'll take with me the signals given here. The representative Olemic Thommessen was busy with the Nordic Channel. The issue has recently been settled, yes, it has been settled several times, but Ole Nordbak has produced a report that is now being heard and will be dealt with in the Nordic Council of Ministers, and the legal issues that the representative Thommessen was busy with are also discussed in the report. If my time is up, I'll draw for a new three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e444	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e447	Now the Council of State gave a good answer to some questions in its statement. She opened exactly a week ago for a debate on sponsorship posters. Today she concluded. There was a relatively short debate, but that was a correct conclusion. I was also pleased to hear that she says that with regard to viewer turn-up and the goal of the NRK to be the largest, there may still be current policy for the NRK. I think it's also important for the narrow programs that you have such a width. But then I have a question. We also help NRK and media companies operating with TV in Norway to produce good quality series by providing support through the Film Fund. Today we were made aware that the Council of State actually proposes once again in the revised budget cut in the Film Fund, at $7 million. kr, while we see Norwegian film and Norwegian TV production flourish. The NRK won the «Black Money, White Lies» award at the latest this weekend and showed that it is possible to produce good quality series in Norwegian. How does the Council of State view this kind of bet when she simultaneously cuts in the corresponding budget in connection with the revision?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e456	Yes, it is right, as the representative Giske says, that in the revised budget that we have presented today, we have cut our budget in the Ministry of Culture. There's never a good situation, but when the entire government is forced to stick together about a cut of billions because we've got extra expenses, the cultural budget must also suffer something. I have tried to make it as gentle as possible, and the cut that has come to the Ministry of Culture's budget is not of the greatest, but it is as vulnerable anyway. There were two areas that it was possible for me to cut that were not legally connected, and it was film and it was press. I'm gonna listen to that. But when that's said, we've put in new funding through the Film Fund that's just going to go to the serious. We will support that, and I hope that we will still have a thriving film industry. So it's going to go down in the film industry, and it's been produced very well, and we've already said in the budget that we also want to support serial production for the NRK and for other broadcasters, so there's something that the government is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e461	The President will assume that when it goes so that the film production is howling, it has to be something other than silent films.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e464	One thing that is not mentioned in the statement, which we miss, is a point of education programmes. The NRK has a tradition of also running education, public education, education, and it's almost gone. If we look over the fridge to Sweden, we see that they're high, and we believe that this should also be a natural and important part for the NRK. Will the Council of State take initiatives to raise education programmes on the agenda of the NRK1? So question two: As you know, we want to maintain district offices with our own administrations in all the counties. We've shown in the past that we're talking about about about a 10 per. license to do that, and we're willing to do that. Then we see that after the conversion, one third of the listeners in Finnmark are gone on the afternoon broadcasts. Has the Council of State considered this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e471	When it comes to teaching programs, I thought it was interesting to define what is a teaching program. A part of what goes for entertainment programs may well be educational programs, so I think it's up to the NRK to prioritize what can also be put into the booth teaching program in relation to their program. But we would like to have a dialogue with the NRK in relation to the problem that the representative raised. In the case of district offices, the representative is a survey from Finnmark. One has asked about 36 people here, and there is too little reason to have any clear conclusion on how the shipments in Finnmark are received. Now, as the representative knows, we've merged some of the district offices on the administrative level, and I think we're going to have to investigate how well we're doing. From my side, at least it's not relevant to do anything about it. But what's good about creating own broadcasts for Northern Ireland is that from the NRK's side, they have said that they need to strengthen Troms and Finnmark because Nordland is going to have part of the production itself, and that's how the whole of North Norway is strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e478	We know that when NRK broadcasts children's programs, children look at NRK. I'm aware that last year the NRK wanted an extra pot of 100 million. kr for the channelling of children's TV on NRK2 and that they received no. The state council said in the orientation that the NRK has good enough financial conditions – has good economic conditions. The question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that the economic framework of the NRC is so good that they can realise this within the economy they have per year? Today? So we know that digitizing the archive to the NRK is a big job. Is the breakdown of the costs of this work carried out? Can the Council of State give some information on this, and how has the Council of State thought this would be financed?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e487	I think of these questions as purely budgetary questions, where the answer comes when we present the budget to the House. I'm going to stand by the fact that the NRK has good finances. I don't think I said 'good enough' economy, there's a difference between that. It is obvious that when you have a new bet on, for example: children's programmes, it is natural that more resources are needed, but we must come back to how it is to be financed when we present the budget for the autumn. When it comes to digitizing the archive to the NRK, I can't give a detailed explanation about it here on the kick. When it applies to the economy in question, there is something we have to get back to during the budgetary management.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e497	This debate has shown that, with the exception of the Progress Party, there is broad support for the strategies adopted by the Governing Council of the NRC. As far as the economy is concerned, two attempts have been made by cultural ministers over the last 20 years not to adjust the revenues of the NRK, and both times there has been a failure in the Stortinget. It would say quite clearly from what this house thinks about that matter. I also welcome the clarifications on the audience opening, the sponsorship poster and the solution that has been found for NRK Nordland. The councils engaged themselves in connection with the district office in Sogn and Fjordane, and I want to ask if she will be in dialogue with the NRK to maintain a good district structure and a maximum local presence. In my view, it is a fundamental factor for the trust the NRK has in the people. I would also like to ask whether the demand for Norwegian music will be dealt with with with with some flexibility, such as: the work of the NRK P2 on European music cooperation may be continued and that the requirement applies to NRK as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e506	When it comes to good district shipments and following up the NRK in that way, I trust the NRK when they say they want more journalistic resources in the districts. One of the reasons they put together the administrative offices is that they wanted more journalists out there. I believe that both listener checks and program breakdowns will be a clear pointer to the NRK as to whether they are successful or not. I also want to benefit from the need to answer where Jan Sahl has been in relation to the fight for the Nordland district office, which was requested. Now it's time that when you're in position, you don't go through multiple comments in Stortinget, one goes directly to the Council of State. And Jan Sahl's engaged, I can assure the representative from Northern Ireland about that. When it comes to the demand for Norwegian music, I would probably have wanted all the channels to have at least 30-35 pst. Norwegian music. It may be difficult to meet, but at least the requirement must be clear. I have noticed that two of the big parties here on Stortinget do not want all three channels to have such a large Norwegian music share. I take note of that, and then I get to go into a dialogue with the NRK on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e515	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. If there has been any doubt about where the representative Jan Sahl has been, there is at least no doubt about where he is. He's here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e522	I decided for this three-minute replica before my name was mentioned in this debate. Now, state councillor Reply City Haugland has said a little bit about how we behave when we're in position. I understand that the opposition needs to be marked in relation to the fact that they have written comments. But we have used ourselves to talk to a responsive state council. 4th May was in many ways a jubilee day, not only for the NRK in the Nordic countries, but for people in the Nordic countries in total. A fairly long fight for full district broadcasts on television was then crowned with victory, and I do not hide that it is the same government council that has pressed on, so that we have slowly, but surely ended up where we are today. If we look at the story, there was already an increased license in 1996 for Nordland to receive full district shipments. But first it had to put a house in place, and in 1998 the house was in place. It's a fantastic building, with all the possibilities provided for even full-fledged broadcasts on television. But then the NRK team found out that they wanted to use the money in a different way. After that, there has been a fairly constant pressure from Stortinget, both from the opposition – I'm going to be so tired of taking them along as well – and from the position, to get full-fledged shipments. In 2002, we received five minutes, in 2003 we received full broadcasts on Fridays, and now from 1.1.2005 we will have a full-fledged district offer in Northern Ireland as well. It's an important cultural event for us, it's a big event for a long-term state that we're now getting a full-fledged district offer on television as well. I would like to thank my own State Council for the fight that has taken place and that has ended with the good result that we have now received for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e538	In its information, the Council of State indicated that both official target forms should be used in the NRK and that at least 25 pst. of the verbal entries shall be in neural neural. I'm glad that she underlines it and refers to the creation of the New Norse Center of Competence, which the board of directors of the NRK has agreed to as one of the tools to achieve the goal. SV is pleased with the centre of competence. That's what it takes. In 2000, the use of the NRK Television was as low as 11.5 pst. So low has not been the proportion of new Norse since a start on registration in 1972. For NRK Radio it was a bit better, 17 pst. These figures are presented in a review carried out in connection with the preliminary project of the Nynorsk Centre of Competence. But most eye-catchingly, I think there are almost no new drug users among those who make children’s and young people’s programmes in the NRK. Out of 120 employees working with children’s and youth programmes, only 6 are new drug users. These create important programmes that address children and young people in the years of life when identity, language understanding and tolerance are most shaped. It is extremely important to have good new Norse role models on both radio and television. And in these days of scholastic debates, it's important to have a new-nosed, good-nosed, radio and television. New media centres will be an important innovation in strengthening new-surgery. The fact that the NRC has taken such an action will also help to confirm that they take their cultural responsibility seriously and that they are taking an active step to increase the neural percentage of their broadcasts. The centre will increase access to emerging media workers tailored to the ether media. This increases both the new Norse percentage and the linguistic, cultural and geographical diversity of the editors. The NRK also regains this commitment, mainly through better access to and recruitment of news-talking journalists, but also by raising awareness of new trends in the NRK and the media. This awareness will eventually hopefully be passed through strategic plans, recruitment, leadership training and language policy. This will, in some cases, confirm NRK's invaluable value for Norwegian language and culture, and I'm going to believe that for NRK, it's a dimension with its own value. Elles fears the centre's annual debate on broadcasting fees and that she should lead to an ongoing struggle for the centre's economy. To say that at least we in SV expect that when NRK now starts with a center and with it shows that they want it as a bet area, it means that there is also a bet area in the annual budget struggle.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e551	I'll answer some of the challenges I've been given. The representative of Sollied Upperaas was involved in this with subtitling, and she asked again about the budget, so that this would come into place. I have had conversations with the NRK about subtitling, and there are technical challenges more than economic ones that stand in the way of doing this. I'm not good enough technicians to tell you how this is going to happen, but I know it's hard to get it done, and so it's about technical problems that a person is working on continuously, not about economic challenges just when it comes to that matter. The NRK itself is very busy with this, and I said a little about it in my distribution. Another problem raised by the representatives Torny Pedersen and Ola T. Loans are transmissions and transfers from other sources. The Opera and our theaters to the NRK. This is important, and there's a part about it in the cultural message, which got a connection here in the hall. There have been some newspaper headlines about this, to which Mr Lånke referred. I expect these negotiations to start again quite quickly. We added funds to the Opera in the previous budget so that one would have the economy to start such transmissions. This is also one of the factors I consider in terms of instructing the NRK to increase the number of transmissions by decisions in the General Assembly. It's important that the entire Norwegian people get a share in the many great setups that we have both in our theaters and in the Opera. There are some technical and economic problems in getting this done, but in recent years there has been too bad in this field. Finally, a little bit about the new story in the NRK: I'm not going to go into the reason that the number might have been worse last year than they've been a few years ago, there might be coincidences that do. But the NRK is also busy that we're going to get better on the new Norse part. Here it is a great potential for improvement. I hope that the Förde Centre will be involved in raising both the quality and the new Norse Circumstances of the NRK so that one can meet the requirements that one must set for a public broadcaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e562	I may think the Council of State is a little too light on the cut that she has now proposed in the Film Fund. Over the last few years, we have had a very strong conversion both in the form of the NRK and in the form of Norwegian films, by opening up to the purchase of both films and series, and thus having a colossal life of various production companies, which now leads to Norwegian films and also to Norwegian series in flowering. But we are a small language area, we are a small country, and therefore good public support schemes are also needed to maintain this production environment. This is, of course, an area that internationally can be a fantastic industrial development area, an area that both enriches us culturally, takes care of our language and at the same time provides the basis for profitable jobs and profitable production. Within these production environments it is changing whether they produce for TV or whether they produce for film, and it is clear that cutbacks in the Film Fund, as the Council of State now suggests, could affect both sectors, including the support given to production of series for Norwegian television channels. In particular, it is regrettable that in a year when the ticket support scheme runs out of money, we should have been used for production, that we are ‘rewarding’ the success of Norwegian film, with new cuts in production. I think this is pretty bad considering that one month ago we discussed the cultural message, where the government parties ran off to tell you that there was really no difference in the cultural promise that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party stood for, and what the government parties stood for. When they hadn't participated in the different bets, whether it was investing in cultural schools or investing in Norwegian films and series, according to the Council of State, it was really just a work accident in the committee because you had had such a bad time, there was no real political disagreement. You were going to spend an additional billion, even though the Council of State had a terrible difficulty in systematizing how to get to these calculations of $1 billion. Starting this huge investment with another cut in the Film Fund, which affects Norwegian production environments in the TV and film world, I think is an incredibly bad start.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e571	It is obvious that the NRC plays a key role in communicating local conditions in a way that makes the population aware of them, just as local viewers and local radios can often do, and thus both increase understanding among the population of the problems they face, and increase understanding outside their own country. Therefore, it is very positive that NRK Nordland now receives its own broadcasting surface, and that more attention can be given to a group of over 40 municipalities. What I've noticed about Finnmark is how changes in the structure result in less focus on Finnmark's issues, and coordination between Troms and Finnmark, where Finnmark often suffers from the overall transmission surface. What we have seen in Finnmark is that there have been a number of changes, especially in coastal municipalities, where municipalities have lost up to 20 pst. of the population over a ten-year period. It's a drama that you don't take inward if you don't get it presented. It is clear that in competition between Troms and Finnmark, many smaller municipalities, such as Båtsfjord, Berlevåg or Loppa, will no longer have the same presentation as before, and in many ways it will be an instrument of centralisation, because the issues are not raised. We have recently seen a debate in Gamvik about a compensation scheme, where the municipality is poor and has problems paying. If you don't have a public broadcaster over time to cover the different states in a way that the population knows about, and that also allows the issue to reach us as rich politicians, so that we can deal with the problems in a sensible way, it will have consequences over time. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State whether she is committed to following up the consequences of the kind of mergers we have seen over time, and could possibly take the same action for Finnmark as has been done for Northern Ireland, just to ensure that the public broadcaster's responsibility for transmitting local material in a way that makes the population of the different municipalities have the NRK as a speaker for their affairs, and to raise the various issues in the municipalities in a way that reaches the politicians and that ensures a local democracy that is active.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e582	Now I'm going to be very careful to act as an editor in the NRK, and we have a broadcasting director that's going to be, and it's definitely not my task. But it is obvious that as politicians we are busy with how the district offices work, and the NRK itself has said that with the conversion they had in Finnmark and Troms, there would be more journalistic resources out in the districts. I'm quite overconfident that the NRK itself is busy that the broadcasts should reflect both Troms and Finnmark in order to be familiar when it comes to the merger that they've done. Of course, I want to discuss this with the NRK, but I also have great confidence that the NRK will follow it up on its own. In addition, it is said from the NRK's page, as I have also mentioned before today, that this conversion in Northern Ireland will mean that Troms and Finnmark need more resources because they are to create more programs only about Troms and Finnmark. So the whole of North Norway is getting better out of this. When it comes to the decision at the General Assembly to demand full transmissions in Northern Ireland, it's a decision that I make with a little bit of confusion, because I'm not supposed to be an editor in the NRK. This is a balance that is very important. It's very important that I'm also aware of the things that politicians can think about, but that we don't actually have anything to do with when we've turned the NRK into an AS. But now I've still published that I'm going to do this, and that it's being done at the General Assembly. When it comes to what Trond Giske was inside his post, we'll probably come back to it. We shall have a debate on the revised budget. I notice that the representative Giske has forgotten that when you are in government, all departments must be involved and cut when it has to be cut. It has probably also happened in the Labour Party's time that the Ministry of Culture's budget has been revised. It's completely natural when there's so much money that has to be cut. But I expect that we will come back to the specific issues in the revised budget later here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e595	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2658]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e611	First speaker is Harald Espelund. Harald Espelund is acting on behalf of the rapporteur, who is Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e614	That's absolutely correct. I registered when I came, that Ursula Evje is the case rapporteur in that case, and I try to get into her role. Inner. S. No 164 is based on a Document No. Eight proposals from, among others: The representative of Rikham, who is engaged in the provision of small and protective subjects. The proposal is that the Stortinget asks the Government to take the initiative that county municipalities set up regional offices to attend to these subjects and also provide financial support to get this up and running. The size has been concerned with these small and protective subjects in the past. We see that this was also being treated in 1997. A secretariat at Lillehammer was then set up to strengthen the position of these subjects, among others. by carrying out information and coordination work. I believe that the whole committee agrees that this is an important work that needs to be done. I also understand that the committee says this very clearly with the following sentence: ‘The Committee therefore asks the Government to assess different models of cooperation and/or interaction in order to strengthen recruitment and training in small and protective subjects, and to submit this to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ – That’s really what’s also going to be the conclusion. The Committee is concerned that some of these subjects are, in fact, so small and difficult to provide a basis for this to be seen from a Nordic perspective. I see this being dealt with by the Nordic Council of Ministers in 1999, which took 36 subjects which could be a concept of cooperation in the Nordic context. One has also asked the Government to take the necessary steps to increase cooperation in both the Nordic and EEA areas, in view of common solutions to challenges related to small and protective subjects. The faction of the Progress Party in the Committee is a little bit concerned about spreading competences far beyond the country. One wants to put it together in a force center. Dissemination of this competence would lead to an expensive administration, which, in turn, could lead to little funding for individual actions. We have therefore had our own comments in the Inner East. S. No 164. The Committee shall be convened in order to attach the matter to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e634	Right away, this can be a matter for people with special interests. It shouldn't be. And that's because of a lot of things. This is a matter of cultural policy importance. For part of these subjects, it is about caring for the cultural heritage. Recently, we have talked a lot about the restoration of old church buildings, and we have talked about the restoration of cultural memories, etc. If we're going to do that work, we need people who have that kind of competence. This means that in the case of these crafts, which have traditionally gone from generation to generation, there must be some who can catch them and carry them on, so that we can preserve our cultural memories, take care of the old church buildings, for example. It's also about creating a recruitment system for these subjects. Today, we know that the recruitment of small and protective subjects is distorted in that, in large parts of the country, there has not been a single apprentice for many years. This is due, inter alia, to: the establishment in parts of the country of own offices responsible for these small and protective subjects. We have an office in Oslo, we had an office in Trondheim, and we have an office in Finnmark that has a special responsibility for these subjects, who work with these subjects, market these subjects, offer apprenticeships and organize training. We have the Cultural Ring in Akershus, which has been an important contributor to recruiting young people into these subjects. Other places don't exist these structures that can catch up with students who might start learning in what we call small and protective subjects. Today it is approx. 35 crafts which have been registered as small and protective. Let me also underline, so that there should be no doubt: it is the county municipality that is responsible for these subjects as well, in the same way as for the other subjects in high school. It is the county council that is to facilitate these subjects too, so that there are learning places and opportunities for students who want to take such courses. But it is clear that all county councils do not have the same opportunity to do a good enough job, and that there is a need to look across the county boundaries, and perhaps even in some cases see this at country level. The Lillehammer Office, established in 1997, has a nationwide responsibility, but it is limited to what this single office can do. That's why it's absolutely necessary if we're to take care of these subjects, if we're to develop these subjects, if we're to secure apprentices for these subjects, that we have an organisation that has the task of developing apprenticeships, marketing offers in each state, and creating a training system. Many of the companies operating within craft traditions are too small to have sole responsibility for their own apprentices. We know a lot about this. We also know that it's not just the small and protective subjects that are in that situation. In many places, small enterprises are unable to take responsibility for apprentices alone, but where several companies cooperate through a county training office. As enterprises in these disciplines are mainly so small, we need a system that coordinates this, just as the training offices in the counties do it for a number of other subjects. That's where we can think of more options. It has also been pointed out by the Committee. We can imagine regional offices covering all the counties, similar to what we have in Oslo and Trondheim. No new posts are needed. That is not the point, but that the county councils are required to form regional solutions. For example, we have a system of nationwide lines, which does not include the subjects we are talking about here, where the county councils go together to establish an education offer in one or more places. We can imagine a somewhat similar model, that there will be regional cooperation that will be responsible for keeping these subjects in line, that will be responsible for the provision of apprenticeships, and that there will be cooperation between the different companies. Another option may be to rely on strong professional environments on a national basis, and the strong professional communities in this area are given a national responsibility to coordinate at country level. When, for example: For a part of the trade union silver tradition, which is a small field of expertise, we can imagine that a strong trade union environment will be responsible for this training on a country-by-country basis at some point in the country. Their responsibilities include: to fence around these subjects, develop them, build networks with other professional environments and not least with the county municipalities, which are responsible, so that apprenticeships are registered and offered throughout the country. If we had managed to do that, I think it would have been a good model. A unanimous committee, as the rapporteur also pointed out, has said to the ministry that we want a review, we want an overview of how this can be done, various proposals, and that we get feedback to the Stortinget on how to develop and take care of these subjects in the best possible way. I guess we'll get that. I expect the Council of State will follow up, and that we will receive feedback so that we can call about and take care of many of the subjects that are about to die for us. As I said, these are subjects that are absolutely necessary if we are to take care of parts of the cultural heritage. So finally, we've also tried to see this in a Nordic perspective. There is already cooperation across borders, between Norway and Sweden, on very special subjects, where there may be one or two apprentices on a national basis, and where it is natural to cooperate with other Nordic countries, perhaps primarily Sweden, which is closest. We're also trying to draw that perspective and point out that there are subjects where you have to have a bigger perspective than just the Norwegian one. I look forward to receiving a response to Stortinget. This is an important matter. It is, as I said, not a matter of particular interest. It is a matter for everyone who is concerned about the cultural heritage, occupied among others. developing and maintaining old craft traditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e664	I agree with Rolf Reikvam's representative that it is important to take care of the cultural heritage. I just want to stress that these small and protective subjects are characterised by the fact that we observe traditional craft traditions, and that there are both nutritional and cultural reasons why it is important to take care of them. Since very few practitioners and small businesses are involved, they need additional schemes and support to survive at all. It appears that during the period 1996–2002, the number of apprentices has declined by about one percentage point. 35 pst. This may be due to several factors. This may include, inter alia: are in the phase-out of courses in action by Aetat and that there is a decreasing number of pupils. But the biggest challenge now is to strengthen the recruitment of the subjects. There are then several measures that can be implemented, including: the establishment of a database, as referred to by the Committee. Another measure is enhanced cooperation across county boundaries. It is important that the information on the subjects reaches as wide as possible, so that the search for the subjects can be strengthened. It is difficult for individual subjects to reach out on their own with sufficient information. It is important that the Government now assess different models of cooperation, precisely in order to strengthen recruitment and training in small and protective subjects. Nordic countries have more similarities with craft traditions, as has been pointed out. Therefore, enhanced cross-border cooperation will be fruitful. Intensification of international cooperation in these fields can bring great benefits in relation to the development of professional environments. By taking steps towards increased cooperation, not only in the Nordic region, but throughout the EEA area, in view of common solutions to challenges related to small and protective subjects, I think you can strengthen your interest in the subjects and develop them in a positive direction. The Secretariat for Small and Protective Subjects at Lillehammer is doing an important job of disseminating information about the various subjects. Through the Internet and the sending of brochures to schools, public authorities and businesses, the Secretariat reaches out with general information on vocational training, in particular on the small and protective subjects. The Secretariat also provides information to students, advisers and individuals. I think there might be a need to see if you can maybe merge some subjects. The selection is large, at the same time as there are several subjects with similar elements in the competence requirements. It is therefore important to see if you can combine subjects where this is possible. Through the small and protective subjects, we have knowledge that has long and rich traditions in the country and that is worth protecting for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e679	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e695	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e708	The cancellation is then ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-11.ana.ud2528e715	The President will propose that the presentation of the Minister of Culture and the Minister of the Church at the Storting meeting on 4 May 2004, on the public broadcasting mission to Norwegian National Broadcasting, be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
