ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e119	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli, Mette Korsrud and Harald Espelund For the province of Hordaland: Ragna Flotve For Troms County: Ruth Stenersen For Vestfold County: Marie Kürstein
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e147	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Ranveig Frøiland. – Other proposals are not available, and Ranveig Frøiland is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative of Morten Lund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e154	On behalf of Ola D. Glötvold and myself, I would suggest that an action plan be drawn up to reduce sugar consumption among children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e159	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e172	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e183	Normally, as case spokespersons, I would have drawn up some common ideas on behalf of the committee, but as those who read the configuration can see, there is nothing the committee can do about it. I therefore argued that the minority is doing well for their attitudes. I want to use my speaking time to do something for SV's point of view and beyond that part of the setting where we make up the plurality with the government party. When Stortinget considered the proposal of Øystein Djupedal and Inge Ryan to obtain a status report for IT Fornebu ‘with emphasis on assessing whether the development of the centre is in line with Stortinget’s intentions, and to analyse whether the project’s concept as a food policy has worked as intended’, the Labour Party and the Advance Party opposed this and argued that it was to stick pairs in wheels for IT Fornebu. The reference from these parties has been that it is not IT Fornebu's fault that the IT bubble broke, and that it is not IT Fornebu's fault that the market for industrial buildings in the Oslo area has overcapacity. I record that the parties who opposed the preparation of a status report are the parties that have made concrete proposals today. In SV we interpret it as that IT Fornebu's mothers and fathers appreciate this opportunity to follow up their offspring. And we like that. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has developed an external status report, carried out by the Danish consulting company Oxford Research AS, as part of the process of the Storing Message. The main conclusion of this report can be summarised in a sentence: IT Fornebu has lost vision height. The Danish consultant says that one actually aims to develop a well-functioning business park in the Oslo region rather than a knowledge centre of international importance. The consultant supports this by pointing out that the centre is not being marketed internationally, that, with the exception of the Simula Centre, research and training activities have not been established, and that the plans to become a national centre for continuing training and electronic learning have been abandoned. In the report, it appears that a possible reason beyond the focus of ownership is that IT Fornebus is relatively vague in relation to vision. The approach has been little concrete and without clear priorities, without strategies to maintain and further develop the vision of the Storting in the main agreement. IT Fornebu builds on the idea that physical proximity promotes the chances of social interaction, and that there is a fundamental premise for knowledge-based development and value creation. The status report tells us that even if 60 pst. There are only 4 psts of enterprises with social relationships — in the canteens and the like — with others at Fornebu. which they say cooperates with Simula. The consultant considers that this is because ‘very few of the Centre’s companies have technology height and competence which allows such cooperation’. Let me use this as an opportunity to say a little bit about the simulation. Simula Research Laboratory was established and formally opened at Fornebu in April 2002. Simula established in March this year its own innovation company. An international committee has recently carried out an evaluation of the Simula Centre on behalf of the Norwegian Research Council. The evaluation shows that the ‘Simula Centre has made impressive progress since its establishment’ and that the centre ‘is driven as an effective research unit with growing international recognition’. This has been noted by the majority in the Business Committee, and we express in the vote that we welcome the fact that Simula has established research contracts for the period 2006-2015. In a letter to the Committee, the Simulator writes that ‘we have been concerned that there has been a relatively strong focus on property and infrastructure and a low focus on research and innovation’ at IT Fornebu. The international committee that has evaluated Simula also believes that the investment in Fornebu has not evolved as expected, and that Simula’s location is a disadvantage today because it is ‘an unnecessary obstacle to cooperation with other centres in the Oslo region and limits the participation of Master’s degree students from the University of Oslo’. The International Committee therefore believes that the relocalisation of Simula may have to be assessed. In this context, I just want to clarify what SV and the government part express in the setting, that the permissions of Simulations do not depend on location on Fornebu. The simulations are free to assess the location where they are most useful based on their objectives and visions. From the SV's point of view, we have noted in particular that the evaluation of Simula makes it possible for organisational and economic framework conditions to focus on promoting basic research, while also covering the wider field from doctoral education to commercialisation. For us, this link is a significant research and nutrition policy point. Let me use this point as a chance to raise my eyes a little bit. SV agrees that the question was properly asked by the IT fornebu followers. How do we develop Norwegian economy? How do we develop alternatives to a Norwegian commodity-based economy? But what started as an idea at the Norwegian Investor Forum is not the right answer. Fasit is not IT Fornebu. Or as it is called in the status report: there was a surprising lack of analytically based arguments that there was just an IT center on Fornebu that was the answer to the question. SV believes that the state has a central role in Norwegian industrial policy in addition to the fasilitator role, in addition to managing the country's ownership based on purely commercial considerations. An offensive IT and knowledge policy is a self-evident part of an industry policy for the future, but it is not such that more IT provides more and better business development. Building Norwegian IT skills is something other than building the environment. To bet on IT is something other than to fill an empty house with visions – it needs more. This way, many people will automatically want to point to research like this which has to be more. But, as with IT, it's too easy to say that increasing research results in increased economic development. Research is a piece with many other pieces, such as investment in new equipment, design and knowledge added to them. And the list can be done much longer. So when SV licenses more for research, have better depreciation rules that make it more profitable to invest in machinery, equipment and new technology, bets on industrial design, have a package for culture and nutrition and bets at school and at Innovation Norway, it is precisely because industrial policy tools have to capture the wealth that the Norwegian industrial structure represents and that captures the complex relationships from the idea is born until it is sold. It's a good strategy for developing the Norwegian economy. If any set of similarities between the state being active and the state doing so at any given time are correct, there is an error ending. IT Fornebu is, in SV's opinion, such an error. This is not the day to allocate responsibilities. But in SV we have noticed comments that IT Fornebu has been essentially a property development project, and that the private owners do not support funds for R & D, and only to a small extent for innovation. Then it might not be so strange that the height of vision is losing, regardless of whether the visions were too grand initially. Nevertheless, we make a lot of figures in this matter. We're preventing state halls and distributions of them. We're in a multiple that makes it clear that it's now up to IT Fornebu, where the state is still the owner through SIVA, to realize the vision. Public permission to restore vision height is invalid. The status report shows that the state’s role in IT Fornebu has been somewhat unclear. This role should have been clarified with this setting. From the SV side, we wish the government the best of luck in the conversations with invited actors about the chances of achieving the revitalization of IT fornebu, and we wish IT fornebu the best of luck in realizing the visions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e227	The background for the Stortinget once again handling a case about IT Fornebu is that SV through Document No. 8:64 for 2002-2003 requested a status report on the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. In the document SV presented the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government within one year to submit an independent status report on the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, with a view to assessing whether the development of the Centre is in line with Stortingen’s intention, and to analyse the project’s concept and suitability as a food policy instrument.’ This was then followed up by the Government by engaging the Danish consulting company Oxford Research AS to produce a status report. This has then become St.meld. No 42 for 2003–2004, which is the basis for our treatment and debate today. In the Storing Message we find a brief review of previous decisions taken in the Stortinget on IT Fornebu. When I searched the Stortingen database on the keyword ‘IT Fornebu’, I got ten hits. This doesn't surprise me. Few establishments have received as much attention as this one in the house, from 1997 onwards, in the long-term programme of the government of Jagland, St.meld. No 4 for 1996-1997, up to today's treatment. It could have been positive if it had been so that the Storting had backed up and backed up what they themselves decided in their time. But this is not the case with IT Fornebu – on the contrary. Here one has always contributed to the Centre's lack of peace, a centre that a large majority in their time agreed to establish. Let's go back to 1997, when the plans were first dealt with in Stortinget. It was in the context of the 1998 State Budget, where the majority of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration of the Budget entered. S. No 2 for 1997-1998 said the following about the plans for IT for Fornebu: ‘The aim is to create a centre of international importance to contribute to new industrial activities and new educational functions in an interaction between research, education and industry. The majority place a crucial emphasis on networking that ensures an adequate flow of information and competences between the international, national and local environments.’» On 7 March 2000, the Stortinget decided to agree that the Ministry of Labour and Administration of State Building concluded an agreement with IT Fornebu Technoport on the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre, and in June 2001 the transfer of the property took place. As one says in the report from Oxford Research: «It is this time, when the realization of vision and goals of the Knowledge Centre at Fornebu is being seriously started.» So it is three and a half years since they took over the property and got the establishment started. It's not long for such a big job. It's not long to establish anything, for everyone who starts a new business knows that it takes time to get up and go. In addition, everyone knows that the IT industry has been in a special situation: the IT bubble broke, many became unemployed, and investments dried up. Now the companies that survived are back, up and down again, people have got a job and got their faith back in the IT industry, and new businesses are being established. In the middle of this one was supposed to establish IT fornebu. This, and the short period of time that has passed since the establishment of IT Fornebu, are some of the reasons why we in the Workers' Party wanted to see IT Fornebu in a wider context when we discussed Document No. 8:64 for approx. A year ago. We therefore proposed that the Government carry out an investigation that would also include similar establishments in Europe, and see how they had developed in relation to IT fornebu. Our proposal was: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an investigation covering the following points: a) Assessing the experience of knowledge centres as an instrument for creating synergies based on the interaction between research, education and business.b) Analysis of experience from knowledge centres designed from scratch through cooperation between the State and private [[Oulo, Spohia Antipolis, Montpellier]] We could be more constant that we didn't get a majority for these proposals, which could help us look forward and not least gain experience from other established centers, from which we could really learn something, and not dwell on the past, as we do now. The state should be an active owner, says most of the parties in Stortinget – in other contexts. But you don't have to be active here. We can all agree that not everything has gone as we hoped with IT Fornebu in the beginning, but they are on the right track, and a lot has happened lately. It's been loosened up in a number of ways, so it's the last trick they're going to have to do before we can establish that all of the pieces are in place. There are now over 40 businesses in the old terminal building, and over 800 people have their daily work there. Exciting things are happening in these companies, and not least in the Simula Centre, which was also the subject of the case rapporteur, and where at least I was very fascinated by the lectures we received during our visit. Here, according to our concepts, there are many exciting opportunities in the future. In our opinion, it must be important that the state is still involved, and that the state is a driving force for this environment to live on and evolve, as the intentions were. Following the conclusions of the consulting company, a stronger state involvement could generate both business and socio-economic returns on its investment. In many contexts, we talk about how important it is for the state and the private sector to cooperate. One example is our seed funds, which depend entirely on private capital to be put to life. But here, in our opinion, the state is failing. The state is the least offensive to provide the Centre with the support and help they need to get to port, as Oxford Research recommends in its report. In its report, Oxford Research says that there are now three prospects for the centre, the status quo, the property development scenario and the revitalisation scenario. The first two scenarios they don't spend much time describing. On the other hand, the consultants recommend several measures in relation to the revitalisation scenario. IT Fornebu has now almost filled the terminal building with activities and businesses. We owe it to the new entrepreneurs who have invested in this environment, that we contribute with what we can contribute, and that we do not allow political disagreement to destroy exciting jobs and developments in the IT industry, an industry that is now optimistic again. When we were on an inspection out there, it was exactly the professional environment that we were talking to, pulled out as important. They gained both inspiration and professional support from colleagues in the various companies that were out there. So what can we do? Well, as the consulting company says, we now have an opportunity to revitalise the process by contributing to the creation of a basis for adopting a regulatory and development plan for the rest of the plant. We can contribute to the further development of research and education activities. We can use the Fornebu environment to strengthen the communities of excellence in the Oslofjord region through Innovation 2010. In short: there are several possibilities that IT Fornebu can achieve the goals and visions set at the time the centre was established. The management of the centre is full of optimism and believes they are on the right track. Then it's up to us here in the house and the government whether we should sit passively on the fence and not participate in creating more exciting opportunities. There will be no development of that. I remember the Government's representative on the Innovation Plan – From Idea to Value. Here it's just talking about it. By supporting our proposal in the setting, we would have continued this plan. I take this up with me the minority proposals of the Labour Party and the Advance Party in the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e293	The representative Grethe Fossli has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e296	I think we should be happy that we have been given the opportunity to examine this report in Stortinget today, that we are given the opportunity to carry out an evaluation of one of the greatest performance projects in the field of industrial development we have had, at least for the last 10 to 20 years. That someone has been against this report, we're just going to take note of it. It was just to be lacking that the Storting took the time and trouble to go through a report that has received so much attention through the treatment of the IT fornebu project in the past and this for two reasons: first, to see if there are any things we should have done differently and could have done differently, and, secondly, to see if this performance project should have been given the opportunity to see the light of day in the way it was put up to. Now that we can look back in December 2004 on how this race went, there are some people who might be tempted to say, "What did we say?" But I'm going to try not to fall for that temptation. It probably wouldn't bring a lot of progress forward, but I think it's very important that the size sometimes looks back and maybe learn from the mistakes you're actually doing. There is no doubt that in relation to the original vision – which one must return to 1995 to find, probably created at the head office of Peace. Olsen Company – no one can make the claim that you are near to having achieved this. Today, IT Fornebu appears to be an office community, far beyond what was politically detailed and was implemented and adopted in 1999. It is essentially, as the case-rapporteur stated in his statement, only with regard to the establishment of the Simula Centre and the IT Fornebu Incubator AS, it may be said that there has been a certain achievement, as the Oxford Research AS report makes clear. The report further indicates that the objective is, in reality, to develop IT fornebu into a well-functioning business park for the Oslo region. Then you can really say that in relation to the vision that lay behind, the center is in many ways about taking, if not a brutal landing, so at least a landing relative to having removed radically from the original vision. It is therefore doubtful whether such developments as we have seen are in line with the intentions of the Stortinget, whether we are talking about achieving the regional policy objectives or – which was actually one of the main pillars – the objective of achieving this at an internationally high level. At the level of regional policy, the national development network, clearly described in Objective 3, was an important justification for the decision taken by the Stortinget in its time. It's relatively disappointing and a clear weakening of the vision that partial measure 3 actually seems to be completely stated. Similarly, it was also clear from the international level that the level of ambition of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party was very high. This was also introduced as one of the main premises in the development of IT fornebu. Today, we can at least state that the promotion activity, which was specified under Objective 1, has been abandoned. As far as possible, the Centre has had to concentrate on renting out office premises — from the date of the decision. The report shows, which I would say very strongly, that most of them were aware in advance, that most of the international parks of this type, defined in the vision plan, have not been located in press areas, but in areas that have always had good access to labour, cheap land and reasonable housing. In the debate, reference was made to the example of Oulo in Finland. Another thing is that such international centres have gradually evolved into what we call pressure areas. But in Norway, by allowing the Workers' Party and the Advance Party to trump through the vision plan, we chose to go the opposite way. So the business page around IT Fornebu went the very opposite way to what has been done in successful international innovation processes. The Fornebu area was and is still characterised by having the country's highest housing prices and land prices. It is therefore no wonder that the big message asks questions as to whether the vision can already be considered to have been abandoned, even though the board of IT Fornebu – not surprisingly – says it is quite the opposite, while the message quite correctly states that with increased public appropriations it will not be possible to achieve the purpose, while at the same time the vision's objectives should become more realistic. Both the report and the Government establish that the project and the country’s financial contribution are difficult to characterise as a successful industrial policy, including: because the majority parties disregarded the need to carry out in advance a needs analysis related to the location and related to the content of the centre. It is clear that the example of IT Fornebu is a poor example of industrial policy. It makes me think back a little bit about the kind of business policy that some people were throwing at in the 1950s, and that I think we can't dream today of going back to as the arena of innovation and innovation. Then, of course, we have to be open to what the future will bring about in terms of the role of IT fornebu and can play, as the representative Fossli had in mind, in terms of the Government's plan for a comprehensive innovation policy. But I would have liked very much that the parties that trodden this matter through, could also have taken the trouble to land. There was not much that reminded me of it in the post of the representative Fossli. I hardly think that we can say that there are discussions in the Storting, lack of state involvement or lack of government appropriations, money, for the project that is the main reason why this did not go as some wanted and had hoped it would go. There is no project in Norway under the business development network, which has received so much attention, political and economic, as the project around IT Fornebu, and which probably saw today's light because here we got a mix between IT Fornebu, Norwegian Investor Forum and the most professional we had of lobbying in Norway, along with some major political, visionary ideas. When we have the opportunity to review such a report as is available here today, we will see the need to be wary of having this mix of political interests and stakeholders that may have a different economic and political goal from what you should and should set in terms of IT, research and development in this country. I therefore believe, as the report rightly states, that what you can apply for today is that the project can develop into a well-functioning business park in and for the Oslo region, rather than becoming a centre of competence of international importance. If that's what it is, we'll be happy for it. But I think it's very tricked by the Storting now to take a landing in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e327	I record that the majority representatives from the SV and the Right now judge this center north and down. There has been a review tone from the outset, although all parties except SV have been positive for the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu and have participated in the decisions on this, even though there has been some disagreement about the device. So leave it at the bottom. After three years, the famous thing is that an evaluation of this centre is required. I remember that it is probably three years since IT Fornebu and the owners took over the properties out there. They see this in a 15-year perspective. So the private actors are willing to lose money for up to 15 years before they get to the positive side. How many such investors do we have in Norway who are willing to think so long-term? And then to other centers: Silicon Valley -- it's probably one of the world's most famous. How long did it take to build up that center? 30–40 years – as an example only. So when we're here in Norway, we're here on the mountain, we're going to start evaluating before you start anything at all, it seems a little bit special. The Labour Party and the Progress Party also showed their willingness to get an evaluation, but then we would have an overall evaluation of all regional centres in Norway, to which the other parties were negative, for some reason. So what has the Storting got back from the Government with this evaluation? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats notes that both the majority and minority proposals have actually been answered. This is not revealed by the Government’s Storing Message, but by the independent report produced by Danish Oxford Research. Oxford Research provides both a concrete status assessment of the project at Fornebu today and an assessment of the project in the context of international experience. Oxford Research concludes, in this context, that the knowledge centre at Fornebu can – I stress – meet Storting's intentions, and that the project's concept can act as a food policy tool. So Oxford Research is not negative. They've gone through this thoroughly, it's an independent analysis agency and don't judge this center north and down, but say we need to have certain prerequisites for revitalisation and development in line with the vision. Oxford Research says: ‘The result is a centre which is partly an attractive urban area and which contributes to Oslo’s and hence Norway’s strong international position in IT and knowledge-based industries. The State is even receiving both a private and a socio-economic return on its investment.' It requires the revitalisation option. Thus, the Progress Party is pleased to note that the industrial policy objectives underlying the Fornebu project are still achievable. That they have not been achieved today — probably three turbulent years after the takeover of the site on Fornebu — hardly seems surprising to anyone in this industry, or to those who have taken part in the international development of such centres. The project is based on a 15-year development perspective, as mentioned above, on the basis of which the State and the private actors as partners in the development of an IT knowledge and innovation centre at Fornebu have been established. However, Oxford Research is also aware that such revitalisation will not happen on its own, and therefore provides a process description in which, in the first phase, a basis for revitalisation is created and then, over several years, the process itself is carried out. One of the prerequisites is that a political strategic process creates a political consensus on the value of the knowledge centre and a regional ICT cluster. Oxford Research focuses on one of the basic premises for and – in fact – shortcomings in the development of the knowledge centre at Fornebu today. Indeed, the Knowledge Centre vision cannot be realised, either on Fornebu or in a wider regional context, if the project is to be continuously criticised and countered politically. This also clearly tells Oxford Research about, as we also see examples of today that the majority still do. The majority’s suspension also carries a clear bid for the ongoing criticism. Although it should be believed that the sometimes heated Fornebu debate would have taken place after the state chose its partner in March 2000, it is sad to note that the criticism and suspicion remain valid. Our task in this room today should be to give a political signal in the direction of creating the necessary political consensus linked to a greater regional revitalisation, in line with Oxford Research's recommendations. This should not be difficult, as there has always been a broad political consensus about creating a knowledge centre at Fornebu. Although the parties have disagreed on the organisation of the development of the knowledge centre, the situation today is that the country has chosen a partner and made large investments, in line with this agreement. Oxford Research also notes that IT Fornebus vision is based on a proactive and modern perception of regional business development from an innovation perspective. It is even said that the vision in many areas is close to the Government's own plan for a comprehensive innovation policy. In other words, there should be a basis on which the Storting could have gathered today to further develop the knowledge centre with both socio-economic and business-economic gains, rather than continuing a political struggle. Oxford Research also sets a different basic requirement for revitalisation. It is said that political leadership is needed to address the remaining planning and regulatory issues. This might be something to think about for State Council Burnde. In the consultation of the Business Committee prior to this treatment, we were told that both the private actors in IT Fornebu and the municipality of Bærum expressed the need for a broad tripartite negotiation with the State to resolve the many complex property-related problems. It was also clearly indicated that the possibility of an improved situation for all the implica­tions is strengthened by a comprehensive solution. It seems clear that Oxford Research has identified this situation by using terminology: «political leadership». The Progress Party believes that it must be clear that the State – both as a seller of land and as a precursor and builder of overall infrastructure at Fornebu – should participate in such negotiations. In this context, the majority argue that the State should not participate in such negotiations, because the State is a partner of the IT Fornebu companies – and therefore already a party. The Progress Party interprets this as a reconstructed excuse, which is, in effect, a lack of willingness to contribute positively to the development of the Knowledge Centre. It is assumed that the majority here has not intended that the State, which owns through the SIVA, should perform its role as seller of land to IT Fornebu, or its role as builder of overall infrastructure at Fornebu. In other words, the state has different roles, which is not a unique situation for this case at all. With different roles, there must also be different party positions, and in this context we are not talking about giving any gift packages, either to IT Fornebu or to the municipality of Bærum. This is about contributing to a comprehensive and coordinated management of complex developments, where the country has many roles. So over to the government's concrete response to the Storting through the Storing Message. The government says that ‘the focus should be on the recommendation for cooperation with a view to revitalising IT fornebu’. This is initially promising, all the time just the revitalisation scenario is that of Oxford Research’s scenarios that involve fulfilling Storting’s assumptions and of the vision of the main agreement – which the status report we are discussing here today should clarify. However, there is reason to wonder whether the majority here has understood the context. The technical summary on page 2 of the setting refers to the actual revitalisation scenario: «Scenario 3: Regulation issues resolved in 2005. The state is an active co-player and the vision is lifted to the entire Oslo region. In an interaction with, in particular, Bærum and Oslo municipalities, IT Fornebu has a central place both in the IT development of the region and in the international marketing of the region.» So this is where it stops. What comes from the majority is inconsistent with conclusions and comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e379	For my part, I believe it has been very useful to have received this status report on IT fornebu. I think that was very necessary. As a result, we have also been identified important aspects of this project that need to be adjusted in order to maintain the original intention of the project. I do not think the Progress Party should be as satisfied with the situation as the representative of Øystein Hedstrøm has now expressed. At least the progress party has no reason to play insults, as I also think the representative Hedstrøm has now offered. The Progress Party has significant co-responsibility for the way in which this project was carried out. I think it's something inexcusable when the Progress Party will explain many of the problems this project has encountered, saying that there's reason to ask if the majority has understood the problem, as he put it. The report from Oxford Research is interesting reading. It summarises, as it has been referred to, by providing the choice between three different scenarios for the development of IT fornebu. The government chooses to move forward on the revitalisation project, supported by a majority in this room. There is therefore no reason for the Progress Party and the representative Hedstrøm to say that the majority condemns this project north and down. I would ask the representative Hedstrøm to adjust language usage to what has actually been said both in the vote and in the proposals that the Government is making here. The report, on the other hand, confirms the skepticism of the device of the project, which was expressed in specific areas. It was a scepticism that now in retrospect turns out to be highly justified. It points to, among others: that the vision of a centre on Fornebu was not rooted in a documented need for such an IT centre. The primary analytical contribution was a brief contribution of about 20 pages, provided from Norwegian Investor Forum to State Building. This lack of a thorough needs analysis is the cause of many of the problems that IT Fornebu has later encountered. The evaluation from Oxford Research summarizes the situation briefly as follows: One has lost vision height. There has been no influx of research and education activities, with one exception, namely the Simula Centre, and it has evolved more towards becoming a business park and not the centre of competence of the international format to which it was put. However, some of the most serious points made by the consultants are the absence of strategy and plans to maintain and further develop this vision, as the Simula Centre points out to Stortinget. There has been too much focus on property and too little focus on research, development and innovation. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has come to the conclusion that it wants to contribute and contribute to the revitalisation of IT Fornebu. It must take place within the scope of SIVA’s already existing involvement in this project. Norway is well placed to develop sustainable IT environments. We have a technological development, we have an infrastructure, we have an expansion of telematics services and a density of different technical devices, like mobile phones and PCs, which makes it interesting to further develop the R & D environment in the IT sector. In St.meld. No 42 for 2003-2004 outlines important perspectives on how the country can contribute to further involvement in realising such opportunities, and more specifically on IT fornebu. The government says it will invite all actors who will be able to contribute to the revitalisation of IT fornebu, to discussions on the possibilities for achieving the goal of the Centre. This is something quite different than judging this project north and down. It's an offensive strategy, based on more realistic visions than that. The Labour Party and the Advance Party contributed to the establishment of this centre, on the premises to which I have referred. The government’s own plan for a comprehensive innovation policy, with ten broad innovation projects under way, could be a model and a thinking that also allows IT for Fornebu to develop. One of these innovation projects is entitled ‘The importance of the capital and regional centres for regional and national innovation’ and it may be a useful approach when implementing this revitalisation scenario. There are considerable resources in the Oslo region in the IT sector, which should provide a necessary basis for us to develop an IT cluster in this region, preferably based on IT Fornebus visions and opportunities. But the government recommends that a person use the time needed to gather the necessary resources and environments, in order to realise the most offensive, but also the most realistic, option, namely revitalisation. I think spending time would be wise. It will also undoubtedly require cooperation between existing environments, which is challenging. At the same time, the Government also draws attention to the fact that, of course, cooperation does not have to take place in such a way as to conflict with open competition in this sector. IT Fornebu must take responsibility for the fact that the vision has not been reached. Neither does it hold, as the representative Grethe Fossli did in his speech, to blame for the lack of blood supply, as she called it. She tried on an offensive tone in her post, as also the representative Hedstrom did. But I would ask that if we are to have a common political agreement to realize the vision, we also have to take the co-responsibility that comes from launching a project that turns out not to be sustainable compared to the opportunities you had. I don't think it works either when Grethe Fossli says that only the Workers' Party had got a majority for their ideas, this would have looked completely different. Unfortunately, this is too simple a description. It has also been shown that there was a failure of the business cycle for the IT industry and on the rental market when IT Fornebu was to be established. That's probably right. But these are also aspects that need to be considered when establishing a project. In a robust project, one also has to calculate that it will not always be the best scenario that kicks in, although all arrows point upwards and all the projections, the green ideas, are launched. I will, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, give my full support to the Government's conclusion on the revitalisation of IT Fornebu based on more realistic premises than those originally put into the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e413	The centre party forms part of the majority in this case, and I refer you initially to the rapporteur's review of the vote. Despite being part of the majority in this case, I still have to say that I take quite a strong distance from the approach to this matter that the representative Ivar Kristiansen had in his speech. Given that Kristiansen is a nutritionist of the Government’s largest party and the party that has had the Minister of Industry for three years, the private actors at Fornebu should be happy that they are now to have the opportunity to develop this centre on their own, without a reluctant state as a major player in the work that will continue to take place. The IT industry will become an important industry for the country in the future, I am absolutely convinced of that. I am also fully convinced that the Oslo region, including the Fornebu area, can play an important role in the development of this industry. We've seen that. Oslo, by virtue of its weight and access to capital, has played an important role in the development of this industry already, and will be an engine in the future as well. So the central party has a completely different starting point to form part of the majority than what the Right has become the spokesman for in this case. And I don't really need, like Ivar Kristiansen, to say, what did we say? Furthermore, the Centre Party has previously made up a part of the majority that has supported its establishment on Fornebu and contributed to State participation. I also have no need to leave a brief impression that can be summed up that it will never be possible to establish this centre at Fornebu. In fact, I hope that IT Fornebu can be able to realise its vision. Significant establishments have been established in the Fornebu area, not least through the establishment of Telenor and with regard to the jobs already established within the IT Fornebu system. It's true, as many people have said, that a good part of the ambitions that IT Fornebu initially had are not followed up in a good enough way. It is also true that there has been too much focus on property and too little on research and education from IT Fornebus. It may seem as if I intend to make myself a hot defender of what has happened there, but I think we must agree that, as several have pointed out, it has actually not been more than three years since the establishment. I myself have several business start-ups behind me in my working life, and I know that three years of establishment are short, and that the focus will be shifting over time, also in relation to what you should give the most attention to. From the Central Party's point of view, we have contributed a significant government commitment so far. We are talking here about establishment in one of the country's most important growth areas. The centralization to Oslo in the last ten years has been massive, it is still and will be in the future. Here, there are opportunities for growth and development in this area, without the State playing a major role in this in the future. There are significant private resources, and there is access to private capital. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the involvement of the State should now be limited to the participation of SIVA, and I believe in fact that the development of IT Fornebu and the area where it is best served that the private actors now do this on their own. It is a fact – and the debate here today has also shown – that there has been a significant political outline in relation to the position of IT fornebu and the development of this area. Finally, I would just like to congratulate the private actors on the further development of the Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e430	In the setting one used - and many speakers today have used - the expression "loss of vision height" has been used. Ivar Kristiansen says he won't say, "What did we say?" But between the lines, that's exactly what he did, in his entire post. That's why I think it might be nice to go back to the starting point for the whole project. Fornebu was closed as an airport, it was a phenomenally attractive area, Norway required new business development. It wasn't like this, as Steensnæs says, that there was no documented need. We needed business development and ambitions to be ahead of us when it came to researching, developing and exploiting new technologies, and that this was, to this extent, cross-politically anchored. Fornebu offers an opportunity to build a development, knowledge and IT centre of an international format, which should be an industrial policy tool to achieve a completely necessary industrial development in this country. And when we talk about international format, it was precisely because this shouldn't seem like a vacuum cleaner in the regions and districts. One saw that competition was not between the regions and Fornebu, but between Fornebu and the foreign environment. The goal was that this should be of such a dimension that it could seem internationally attractive. That was the vision and the goal. It was actually also a cross-political wish. However, the discussion and the disagreement largely depended on how much the state would commit itself to doing so. The state put on ownership, the state could be an active organizer, and the state could be an active player to bring about positive development. Therefore, the discussion constantly revolved around the size of the area, if there were to be indications of the use of the area, etc. What one experienced was that although it was developed a cross-political goal and a desire to get to such an IT knowledge centre, it was far from any enthusiastic will from the Government at that time to get it to. I believe that a commitment to happiness with this ambitious – I must admit – goal, was that everyone went along, including the state as an active driver. It had to include an involvement of local and state planning authorities, from the research and development environment in collaboration with private investors. But what we experienced during the round after the round, there were actually nine rounds here in Stortinget, was that we spent a very long time getting the project in place. We had to force the government step-by-step to move forward. You can now talk about loss of vision height in retrospect. It had to be a reduced vision target based on the process behind it. However, it is now apparent that there is an industrial development in Fornebu with nearly 1 000 jobs, more than 50 establishments of knowledge enterprises, plus a large research centre through Simula Research, which has been mentioned here. What one sees, is that it builds up nutrient development, rock on rock. The Oxford Research report concludes that the revitalisation of the knowledge centre can help Norway to maintain a strong international position within IT and knowledge-based industries. However, the same report sets out two clear objectives: firstly, a political consensus on the usefulness of such knowledge and clustering activities as one would like to have on Fornebu; and, secondly, a political leadership to resolve the planning and regulatory challenges facing Fornebu. I think the report says this in the right way. That's why it's not what the majority and government conclude here, enough, that we're going to have a revitalization, but without activating more than that. That's why the Labour Party and the Progress Party have clearly formulated four points that I think it is necessary to follow up on whether to proceed with this project, in line with what is in the revitalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e446	The IT industry will not only be an important industry for Norway in the future. It's already a very important industry for us. In the IT field, we export between 24 and 35 billion dollars a year, if we include what we export from IT services. The discussion here goes on, for example: the role of IT Fornebu in relation to the fact that Norway has made it relatively useful in the field of IT and ICT and the state’s investment of 400 million. kr in this project. Not all projects are being initiated in Norway, where the State is adding 400 million. kr at the bottom. It has become quite clear here during the debate. An important basis for the announcement that Stortinget is discussing today is an external status report from the Danish consulting company Oxford Research AS. One of the main conclusions of this status report, as I read it, is that IT Fornebu has focused on property development. The report shows that with today's tenant mass, the centre has received a unclear IT professional profile. Except that all tenants' businesses can be said to be connected to IT, their professional contact with and use of each other is assessed as limited. As the debate has also shown, this is a matter of long political history here in the Chamber. I don't see it as particularly constructive if I'm going to start reminding myself of all the debates that have been before. But I think there's reason to quote short Bondevik I-government conclusion in St.prp. No 35 for 1999-2000, Final negotiations on the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu – Choice of the state’s partner. There wrote the Bondevik I government: ‘The government considers that the concepts of both ITF and NF have a marginal economy of relatively high risk, given the assumptions underlying them. With today's framework conditions, none of the projects show satisfactory profitability.» Further: ‘Furthermore, none of the stakeholders has the particular power to specify what the real content of the IT and knowledge centre will be.’ In my opinion, the report now available from Oxford Research has produced much of the same as the Bondevik I government thought would be the end of this investment. But the government takes note of the fact that the project has so far lost vision height, and that the owners have to take the practical consequences as follows. The government believes that there is a need for revitalisation. The responsibility for this lies, however, with IT Fornebu himself. The Centre is given a more realistic starting point, legitimacy and opportunity to participate in the major innovation work currently taking place in the Capital Region and elsewhere, including in the country. in connection with the Government Innovation Initiative, Innovation 2010. I note that the Government receives support for these assessments in the majority vote by the Committee. I also want to base it on the government's further work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e467	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e470	The Council of State indicated that the State has invested 400 million. kr in the project. I want to ask the Council of State: Is it often that investment is evaluated after just three years? That's my first question. The council says that IT Fornebu itself must take responsibility for the revitalisation. My second question is, will it not be natural, when the state has invested 400 million? that the State also assumes responsibility and participates in a revitalisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e477	The State has already taken significant responsibilities and risks through the SIVA through investments by IT Fornebu. As I also said in my main post, there are not many projects that start up, where the state is adding 400 million. kr at the bottom. The state's further follow-up to this, which I also understand is the majority position, will be through the SIVA, which is a prominent company and an important part of the public agency. This can also be seen from the setting. I think the Oxford Research report has been a useful tool in analysing where you are now after three years. It can be seen that there has been a lot of focus on property development, but that it has now been established that it is an opportunity if the company works hard on what they have in order to get a clearer IT profile. It is then up to the company, where the state also participates as a not insignificant owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e484	There are three main prerequisites for such a centre to succeed. It is that there is a market, that we have an environment and that we have framework conditions. The market is located there, as Norway is one of the world’s leading advanced users of ICT services. We have a significant environment, as Telenor is a giant on the telecommunications side, also internationally. But where it is stranded, the framework conditions are on, and that is why the politicians are inside the picture. In its description of the project ‘The importance of the Capital and Regional Centres for Regional and National Innovation’: ‘The project is assumed to take the form of cooperation between public and private actors.’ Should not the establishment of the knowledge centre on Fornebu itself involve such active cooperation in innovation policy, since in this project there are both clear assumptions from the Storting regarding such cooperation and a contractual basis that require such cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e496	As I said in my article, the IT sector is important to Norway. We export IT and IT services for DKK 24–35 billion. It has been shown that many of the companies that have grown up in Norway and that have actually done so very well internationally also have a scattered location. It is a fact that IT Fornebu has to work more to attract that type of company in the future, if they are to succeed in going from being a property development company to getting an even stronger IT professional platform. At least the state has contributed its way through the SIVA and these 400 million. kr. When the other companies have chosen to establish themselves elsewhere, that is the assessment they have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e505	The entire committee visited Fornebu, and after that visit, all parties, according to the media, were positive to tripartite negotiations, that the planning and regulatory problems could be solved. But then we got a letter from the department. The reason why the State should not participate in this was that it could end up as an objection authority. But I don't quite understand this, because the government has had like a red thread that they want to bring together the state's holdings in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, just to separate the ownership role from the authority and supervision role. Doesn't the Council of State see the contradiction in this? And isn't it important for all parties to contribute to bringing together the totals here, according to the roles of the Government and the Department here, in order to get a complete solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e514	As I have read the majority position, it is stated that the State should exercise its involvement with IT Fornebu through the principal company SIVA. Through the SIVA exposure, the State is engaged in the IT Fornebu project. Of course, there must be a dialogue with the municipality of Bærum in the case of any regulatory changes requested by IT Fornebu at the old flight terminal and airport. It is true that if Bærum municipality and IT Fornebu find a good regulatory solution, these cases could be brought to justice with the Ministry of the Environment. I've explained that, so I think it's neatest that the state's commitment is linked to the SIVA ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e521	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e526	One lesson we politicians should be careful about using is, what did we say? But in this case, I think it's right to say, what has SV said from day one? What Oxford Research calls loss of vision height, which is an elegant Danish formulation, does in fact mean in good Norwegian, a belly pad, and it's been a precious stomach patch. The State has invested a lot of money in this which should have been beneficially invested in other and more forward-looking projects. Let me just say that we don't disagree that there will be a vision for IT. But what might have been the main mistake of this whole idea was that it wasn't founded in a real environment that wanted this. It was based on the office of a shipowner and his allies, and they had many different motives for wanting this so-called IT Fornebu project realized. Not least, there was a strong motivation related to the properties at the closed aerodrome. The state should and should actively contribute in many different ways in order to increase the number of IT entrepreneurs that together can create a better Norway. Many of these are already in the Oslo area. They are actually on Lysaker, they are in the Gaustadbeck Valley, they are on Kjeller, they are also on Grünerløkka, and they are in many other places. The starting point for success with this type – let's say visionary innovation in technology must be that it is linked to an existing environment. If the state had forced the University's IT department, i.e. the Centers for Informatics, to IT Fornebu, and heavy professional environments had been added to this deserted flight strip, one might have succeeded, because then there was initially a heavy enough professional environment to make it a generating force. It does not exist, and that means that IT Fornebu as an idea of this – I think we can say – is buried. But that doesn't mean that there are not many good forces in the IT Fornebu area that can create a food park at Fornebu, and that together can certainly find out a lot of wise things. But it won't be close to what was the original idea behind the large-scale state initiative in this area. I want those who are left at Fornebu, good luck, because I think they can certainly create a lot of good and many good and safe jobs. But it'll be a business park and not what it was originally thought from the big business majority. They drummed through a project called IT Fornebu, for which there was really no basis, because there was no environment other than a very limited one that they said they wanted this. I think that when we're going to sum this up and look a little bit ahead, we have to use the state's capital and muscles where we want to, to build up under and strengthen the professional environments that are already established. We can do that both through the educational institutions we have, and also through equity injection or other means. In this way, we'll be able to realize more of what's in the vision of IT fornebu. If you take away Fornebu, we also agree with the vision in SV. It was only incorrect location, in the wrong place and at the wrong time, and we regret that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e539	The disadvantage of being in a big party is that one gets the word early, and then one has to take a short summary in the end. It is not often that we in the Grand Duchy are discussing development in the Capital Region. As a rule, other areas of the country are being debated in this Chamber. That is why I think this debate is important, and it is an important debate for the development of industry on the west side of Akershus as well. But what really made me take the floor was Steensnæs’ posts. He quoted me wrong in several places in his post, so either he hears poorly after, or it is on purpose. I have never said in my post that new blood should be given. What we've been talking about is we're going to look forward, and the state is going to contribute in different ways through the proposals we've made. I have also not said that the Workers' Party's proposal would lead to a completely different IT fornebu than what we see today. I said that the proposals now under consideration, from the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party, will hopefully lead to the development of IT fornebu where we can reach the visions that we all, except SV, agreed on when we in time discussed the vision for IT fornebu. Some of the posts here today, especially from the representatives of Kristiansen and Steensnæs, have a very dissatisfaction with what they themselves have been contributing to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e549	Although the majority will not contribute anything that can be seen as positive for the knowledge centre at Fornebu, here today, I have received clear feedback from the private owners of IT Fornebu that they do not intend to let the majority's views stop them in the further work of creating a knowledge centre in relation to the agreement they have concluded with the State. So they're stuck with the original vision – think about it! They further base their efforts on the fact that the state will see the growth and progress that the Fornebu knowledge centre is experiencing today. They will also make it wise for the State to take the necessary co-responsibility and to contribute to a comprehensive and coordinated management of complex developments, where the State has many roles. It's happened a good deal. Several have been involved before, and it is no wonder that the actors out there, within the limits they have had, have tried to develop where possible, namely by establishing activities in the terminal building. There we have 55 companies and 900 jobs. We've also got the Research Center Simula, which many have been involved in here, the most important thing in ICT in Norway, and we've established one of the country's most capital-intensive incubators, who have evaluated more than 200 projects and invested in dozens of companies. But there are some relationships, especially regulatory ones, in which it has to be resolved. We don't get trialogues now because the majority wants to listen to the Council of State. When we don't get solved in these flocks, there will still be problems, and I'm sorry. Here we should have gone ahead like a spearhead and tried to help and correct the assumptions, so that the center got better assumptions in order to realize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e556	I noticed that Grethe Fossli was a little offended by the way she was quoted. I'm probably afraid that when her posts are going to be reviewed, it will bear the mark of a sort of offensive tone, that if the Workers' Party had got its premises through, this would look quite different. I think it is obvious that Grethe Fossli did not use this opportunity to also show a little humility, and to reflect. This project was launched with considerable political pressure and after considerable political debate, and with strong warnings from a number of trade unions, and a used political power one had to implement decisions that later proved to be unfulfilled. Then I think it would be in place, when you get a status report, that a person reflects a little on what it was that failed, and how to move on. When the representative Øystein Hedstrøm says that the majority will not contribute to anything positive, I have to say that I am surprised, in order to express it carefully, that the Progress Party also does not see that here the Government is reaching out a hand and taking one of the important dynamic options, namely the revitalisation option, where the state will continue to sit with SIVA's shares and run the project in the hope that this centre will be up and go with the original vision of creating an IT centre and not just a business park. It is an offensive contribution to the realisation of the vision of IT Fornebu, but based on more realistic premises than the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in their time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e563	Only a few words to sum up this case about IT Fornebu. I am impressed that some still with enthusiasm can defend the idea underlying IT Fornebu, located where IT Fornebu is. This report is really unmerciful. It is unmerciful in summing up that this can't really be done unless you add significant capital, and so it doesn't do the minority. If you add significant capital or, for that matter, force some companies to move out there, it is possible to imagine that you can get a larger IT environment that can generate growth and progress. There is no will or opportunity. It was also not there as a premise in the first place. This was an idea that basically warned all the trade unions against. Let me just remind you about that. There was not a single educational institution of any importance in Norway that thought that anything should be located on IT fornebu. This made the Gaustadbeck Valley the natural choice for the Centers for Informatics, not build on Fornebu. There was not a single major leading company – with the exception of Telenor – that has long since established itself on Fornebu and as such has nothing to do with IT Fornebu, they have built their own headquarters in the Fornebu area – which has wanted to establish itself there or even have established itself there, with the exception of Simula. Initially, one had such a significant backpack on to fail, and we warned against this at the time in Stortinget. Let me just say that I'm not particularly satisfied with getting right on this question, because I would like to see the state use these 400 million. kr to generate progress, new jobs and growth in key areas of technology for our country. Unfortunately, the majority chose to go beyond all professional advice at the time, and that's why we've seen the result we've got today. The elegant Danish formulation of loss of visional height really means that this was out of the question, this was a gastric plaque. But we're not dropping the project dead. Let me just say that in conclusion, because that's an important point: today, this project could be said to be nothing. What the majority is doing now is we're saying that this project can go on on its own if you want. If you think there is something left in this, go on and try to create your own IT Fornebu! I'll do that. But the reality is that this is now a business park where many capable people can establish themselves with their businesses. Fine, keep it up, create jobs and growth! But the vision that was behind it, which I also agree with the heart, that we must create greater visions within these technology possibilities, must be built on the existing environment. Then there must be people who want this. We in this room can't create an environment out of nothing. That's not possible. Silicon Valley hasn't been created like this. Kista hasn't been created like this and no other technology city has been created like this. They have been created by the people who saw a need, and then the authorities have backed up under an idea that lay there, which was not here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e570	Øystein Hedstrøm has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e573	I note that the statements made by the representative, Mr Djupedal, are not correct. We know that the Stortinget has expressed its opinion on the establishment of educational and research activities at Fornebu. It is also included in the setting. I can't just quote everything that's right there. The Simula Centre, an important ICT and research centre located at Fornebu, has received international recognition and can show good results, but it stands as a lonely lantern. We all need to understand that this must be followed up with further activities. That's why this project needs an acceptance from the political majority, so that it becomes interesting to think and develop something out there. Now I know what the private think, but we all have to agree that the public has a responsibility for research and education in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e580	There is a broad majority today, and there are different parties that make up the plural, but when one hears this debate, it's easy to see that there are denominations within this plural. I thought it had to be right once again to point out that it was actually a broad majority, all the parties except for SV, which ended up with the idea of an IT centre at Fornebu. Today, it seems that very many people take a distance from what they did that time. Some of the articles that we have heard today, I feel grateful for the last time, and it is claimed that one has had the right way. In my view, the biggest mistake we're making today is that we have this whole debate now, because we're doing an evaluation before a closest one has started, and on the basis of this evaluation, a death sentence on this project is also sometimes imposed. The truth is, it's too early to draw conclusions. There's been a very short period of time, and when you talk about establishments at this size, it'll have to take some time. Therefore, I found it important, at least, to say that neither this debate today nor the evaluation currently made provides a basis for drawing a conclusion on what needs to be the final outcome of IT fornebu. It's still possible to get a growth-intensive environment on Fornebu. When a person has come no further than one, I also think it has a connection with a self-fulfilling prophecy. The opponents of this project's closing down have been many, and it's also true that during this great period the opponents have been in multiple numbers here in the hall, and I think it's important that this center has been able to develop. What's important now, and I hope this debate can take part in, is that you have a place, so that those who are established out there, and those who are working on this project, will be able to develop the project further without there being a lot of politicians standing on the sideline and actually want this to go completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e589	The President hopes that the representatives will reflect on the need for an evening meeting. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e592	I think the whole Stortinget wants the actors out on Fornebu to be happy with the further process. They have the best possible starting point compared to any other establishment and any other geographical point in Norway. But I think the representatives of the then majority who are now spending the time presenting their perverseness, should really go in for landing along with parts of the project. In any case, you can't owe it to the current high-growth attitude, either in this or in other cases, because the vision didn't achieve the goals you'd set. When the result was a review of the project and an assessment of whether the idea and the result were related, I think you can relate to the matter as it was adopted. It would only be lacking if the Stortinget did not take the trouble to carry out this review within one of the most important industrial policy, economic efforts ever made by the Stortinget, both to assess the project in terms of how to navigate differently for the future, and not least to learn how to achieve the vision goals you had to aim for and wish to achieve, for future bets like this. I think that looking for scapegoats within this house in this matter must be looking at the completely crazy arena, when you have to explain, or possibly explain away, why it went as it went. But we all want all the actors out on Fornebu to have every chance of happiness in the future. Then we'll see after 10, 15 or 20 years how it's gone out there. At least it is not the attitudes, solutions, visions or ideas of the various actors in this Chamber that are crucial for future success in Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e601	I feel it is necessary to sum up the debate. Intellectual honesty is necessary when one discusses these kinds of things, because here the state actually has a great responsibility. It seems to me that it is quite special when the representative Hedstrøm is able to place responsibility for the development of IT fornebu exclusively on the Stortinget and that there is a political debate about the development of IT fornebu. I will again be quoted from the letter sent by the Simula Centre to the Committee, where they refer to what is stated in the message: ‘In addition to this focus on property, OR IT-Fornebus considers its relationship with its vision to be relatively vague. The approach has been little concrete and without clear priorities, including: without strategy...» The simulation center further writes that they, who have seen this development closely, share the description of the Knowledge Center. They have been concerned that ‘there has been a strong focus on property and infrastructure and a low focus on research and innovation’. It is not the exclusive state that is responsible for the development that is taking place at Fornebu. When the leader in the committee says that the biggest mistake is that we have a case at all today, I would like to point out that it is actually the Labour Party and the Progress Party that have needed to promote concrete proposals for further development for IT for Fornebu. This would indicate that one of those parties also needs to point the direction further. So to the nominees of the representative Hedstrøm. I apologize if I don't repeat it quite correctly, but it was pretty much like this: "Now I know what the private think." I think it's quite characteristic of this case at all. Finally, I would like to make it clear that what is in the setting is that IT Fornebu itself has to take responsibility for implementing the vision objectives. Public permissions are out of date. But the state is still through the SIVA owner of IT Fornebu and thus has a responsibility through it. It is far from the SV's primary position, but it is the only responsible development of IT Fornebu further. So I hope that the next time we discuss IT fornebu, we're not so busy assigning blame, but then we're doing the status in a more honest way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e619	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1269]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e634	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other parties. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e641	In its examination of changes to the State budget in the area of the Ministry of Health and Welfare for 2004, the Social Committee has made only one change. The Committee has also joined in all the changes proposed by the Ministry, with the exception of the chapter on the health economy, where the Progress Party and the Centre have a different proposal for funding. The change is over. 710, National Institute for Public Health. However, this change is significant. It was known during the budgetary procedure that the National Institute for Public Health had recommended the re-vaccination of pups for children between six and seven years of age under the Children’s vaccination programme. This was very good in the light of the information provided, as on 1 December of this year the National Institute for Public Health notified the following: ‘Kikhoste is now the most frequently reported infectious disease in MSIS. All counties have cock-host cases, so it must be assumed that pertussis infection is circulating throughout the country and that unvaccinated children are actually at risk of being infected.’ It is with amazement and concern that I have to note that the ministry obviously had not intended to follow up this crystal-clear recommendation. I do not think it would be necessary for proposals directly in the Grand Duchy to force a solution to have children vaccinated satisfactorily in Norway. One may be tempted to ask if there are other issues of major health importance, with specialist medical advice, which have not been made today either. In the case of regional health enterprises, a broad majority is in line with the Ministry's proposal to grant additional 160 million. kr. I have long been concerned that healthcare companies will be paid for what they are actually doing, and that the assumptions made by the Storting in relation to the annual budgets will be valid for the whole year, so that there is full predictability of the funding system. When it is now apparent that the changed registration practices were lower than assumed and the activity growth higher than that envisaged, it is important that the unit price reflects this and is set up. It would be difficult for health businesses not to be paid for work actually done. Previous year’s proposals from the Department for unit prices curtailment have just given rise to a lack of predictability. This includes, among other things: The advance party pinched its fingers into the air, and NOK 2 billion fell to cover the deficit in 2004. The most important thing from the outside is not that the Progress Party has not claimed coverage for this money, but that the effect of this proposal would be very limited if it had received a majority. In the Minister of Health and Welfare's reply to the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, to questions about the effect of granting DKK 2 billion in 2004, the Minister answers as follows in his reply on 7 December this year: «To your first question; if Stortinget grants 2 billion. in 2004 which is also paid out to regional health enterprises in the current year, my answer is that this will improve the liquidity of health enterprises and mitigate the need for operational credit in 2005 and will have no impact in 2005 beyond reduced interest costs associated with this additional liquidity as you correctly point out.’;» On my own account, I add that this would probably add to all the health businesses in the country a total of between 60 and 70 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e664	I refer you to the rapporteur's posts and I join them mainly. However, I am a little surprised at the way the problem around the chicken cough vaccine was produced. One could get the impression that this was a recommendation from the National Institute of Public Health that had come under this government, but that this government had not followed up. Then there is reason to remember that this recommendation was fairly clear also under the previous Labour Party government, which, in line with this government, failed to prioritise this project high enough. That we have now jointly found a solution to this matter in Stortinget is positive. But here no one can hit his chest and say that one has been better than the other. This recommendation was just as clear during the last Workers' Party government. With regard to the matter as such, it is not so much to say to the various proposals. What has been presented by the Government has been passed on. However, there is reason to comment on the proposals of the Progress Party and the Centre Party to grant money. This has become an annual exercise in these debates. Each year, the response of the Ministry in relation to the importance of these back-up appropriations and their lack of economic significance for enterprises is also equally clear. But as surely as that answer comes the new proposal for the allocation of these two parties in the corresponding case. However, it is a relationship that does not affect the concrete economic, but which is perhaps so serious, related to this proposal for funding, namely that although it would not have the great economic impact on businesses, it would, in our view, have a quite significant negative effect on the way health reform is to work, and on the relationship between the Storing and health businesses. If one had opted for a system in which the size of the regrouping proposal had allowed for this amount, one would, in effect, tear one of the legs away under the health reform, namely, that health businesses should have an independent responsibility for their economy. That responsibility would have melted away fairly quickly if it was such that one reckoned that no matter how bad a crash financially, Stortinget would come running afterwards and give up the amounts. The Socialist Left has a very good point in their comments when they write that a large part of this deficit is actually related to wage settlement, pay settlement that took off completely, and for which companies have an independent responsibility, namely because wage policy is one of the instruments that businesses are going to use in their work to provide a good health service in this country. When they have not managed to control this wage trend, they must also take responsibility for their development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e684	I've lived in the belief that the Stortinget is responsible for the hospitals' finances. But that is clearly not right, according to the representative Bent Höie. The economy and indebtedness of health enterprises and the balance sheet requirement in 2005 have been a review theme even after the Hagen Committee's suspension was issued and dealt with by the Stortinge in connection with St.meld. No 5 a.m. I am pleased that the Progress Party, through its budgetary agreement with the government parties, was able to increase hospital revenues for 2005 by 500 million. kr through the frames and that the ISF shall again be 60 pst. of the estimated cost. This will help to maintain the development we saw in the first quarter of this year, namely that the waiting lists and waiting times for treatment have never been shorter than at the beginning of this year. Unfortunately, from the second tertiary, waiting times and waiting lists have increased again. This is, of course, due to the transition from 60 pst. to 40 pst. ISF refund, which we all had to count on. I now expect that an activity increase of at least a few percent will be possible. It's the smaller hospitals, the local hospitals, that will benefit from an increase in the ISF rate, because they can run too full by about 100 pst. reimbursement. With regard to the balance sheet requirement imposed on undertakings during 2005, it would be impossible to achieve for some undertakings if hospitals did not receive more money, which the Progress Party will come back to in the revised national budget. In its 2005 alternative budget proposal, the Progress Party had a proposal to postpone the balance requirement until 2006 in order to avoid a reduction in hospital treatment and the dismissal of health professionals. We got this only partially, by coming back to especially Health South. In our general remarks in the Budget indent. S. No 11 to the 16th Framework, we have made it clear that we would come back to corporate debt in the treatment of the regrouping proposal for the autumn, and we propose that a further 2 billion be allocated to debt restructuring for businesses. By the end of 2004, enterprises will have a accumulated deficit of more than DKK 4 billion. Although the interest rate is low and the direct cost of servicing the debt is not overwhelming, but approximately. 100-150 million. kr, it is demoralising and not inspiring to operate an enterprise where the debt only increases and the risk of downsizing and economic cuts is constantly a considerable pressure on all categories of hospital staff. This also contributes to an uncertain working situation for all those working in our enterprises. If hospitals do not receive funds for the repayment of debt, new deficits will result in 2004 and the 2005 balance sheet requirement utopian. In the autumn debate on the government's draft budget and the government's and the Progress Party's agreement, the promises made by other parties, in particular the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, about more money for hospitals have been extensive. The strange thing is that the hospital economy was just as difficult when we dealt with the current year's budget, where the government parties made a settlement with the Workers' Party, but they didn't come anymore at that time. Today, waving large appropriations in alternative budgets is just a game for the gallery. Jens Stoltenberg said in the financial debate last year: ‘We have our primary budget, which we believe is even better, but we actually believe it is important to get some decent billions and not just TV billions’. I therefore expect that these parties, including the Workers' Party, now help us to make a promise to improve the economic and organisational functioning of hospitals, so that they can get rid of the most significant part of the debt. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e708	The representative John I. Alvheim has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e711	There can often be an impression that hospitals in Norway are getting less and less money to travel with, but the figures show that this is not the case. Next year, the budget is approximately NOK 67 billion, and that's approximately. 5 billion dollars more than for the current year. So in our country, we spend a lot of money running hospitals. That's right and necessary, because the needs are great, and there are many who need treatment. In addition to providing the specialist healthcare with adequate resources, SV is committed to ensuring that the increased funds provided year by year benefit those patient groups that need it the most. In other words, we need a more targeted use of the health billions. The increased activity we've seen over several years, most people think it's positive. But it is quite obvious that a significant part of this growth has not been targeted at priority patient groups. We know, for example. that during the period we have had a psychiatry escalation plan, the growth of resources in other areas of specialist health services has been significantly higher than in psychiatry. With effect from 1 January of this year, the state of regional health establishments also assumed responsibility for the treatment of drug users. In this area, too, we know that there are major shortages and the need for more resources. We also know that high-income groups in hospitals have had a wage trend that far exceeds what was foreseen, and that for which funds were allocated. Therefore, SV considers that there is a need for a thorough review of the health business economy, both to counteract the wage developments that have occurred for high-income groups and to ensure that the activities adopted by the Stortinge are actually prioritised. Regional health businesses face major challenges in balancing their operations – there is no doubt about it. But for SV's part, we don't think the way to go is to give an extra allocation to the current year's budget. This type of debt cancellation will only have a marginal impact on the operation of health businesses, which was also the subject of the case rapporteur, and could also contribute to the strengthening of deficits in the coming years through the further growth of the activities and wage developments that have contributed to the deficits. Instead, SV wants to strengthen the basic allowance for hospitals by DKK 1 billion, as we suggested in our budget option, and also push the balance sheet requirement out in time – until 2006. As far as the vaccination programme for chick cough is concerned, I would just like to refer to the statements made by the rapporteur and join until then.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e726	The case rapporteur has gone through the matter in a straightforward way, and the Christian People's Party supports his views in the main. I would therefore just like to comment on a few points. For the Christian People's Party, it is very positive that all children who were exposed to the wrong radiation treatment at the Rikshospitale in the period 1971-1978 are now being compensated for the damage they were caused. We are also pleased that a joint committee is promoting proposals to allocate 7.5 million. kr for one to initiate the primary health vaccination against pertussis. This contagious disease now circulates in all parts of the country. It is important that a preventer, so that as much as possible escapes from a chick cough. Our regional health companies are a major challenge both for us on the Stortinget and for those who are going to have daily operations. It will not be easy for any of them to balance operations at the end of 2005. This goal is established, even though in comparison with the Progress Party we have eased somewhat on the claim for Health South. In this proposition, one indicates that health care providers have had higher expenditures on insulin pumps and insulin injectors with consumables. This growth is mainly due to multiple users. It's very positive that more and more people are getting help. At the same time, it is important to highlight the possibilities available to health businesses to improve purchasing practices. In this way, I think you can buy top quality equipment at a more reasonable price. For health regions, it is also positive that the 2004 unit price is set and that 180 million additional is allocated. kr in year for that purpose. It is obvious that reimbursement is paid through the ISF scheme for all real activity. This activity does not know exactly before the following year. Only then will a proper settlement be made. The Christian People's Party gets criticism because we're in on changing the ISF share from 40 pst. to 60 pst. until next year. I would like to remind you that the agreement with the Progress Party states that one should come back with a new assessment in the revised national budget to ensure that this does not affect patients who are not yet included in this scheme. I'm thinking especially about psychiatry, but also about people with long-term disorders. There has been less consumption under the self-employment scheme 2 than expected. This is now changing. Expenditure in the second quarter of this year was 137 p.m. higher than the corresponding period of the previous year. Information measures are starting to work so that more and more physical treatments can be provided to them, treatment trips abroad or stays at a training institution. The Christian People's Party is pleased that this arrangement is now in place, and that it is starting to work satisfactorily.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e747	Let me first express the pleasure of agreeing to the proposal to grant 7.5 million. kr to refresher doses in the case of chick cough vaccine. The case rapporteur was involved in this matter, and I share his concern. One might be concerned that a clear advice from the National Institute of Public Health is not followed up by the Government. One can also ask the question, is there any other relationship that we don't know about in this context? The Kikhost vaccine is well, in order to give a little line to the representative Höie, more important now when we see that this disease spreads very quickly across the country – that is, all of the country's counties – than it might have in a previous government time, if that's a point. So to the regional health businesses and the economy there. Here it's said a lot strange, and it's essentially the same fight and the same arguments. The Progress Party and the Workers' Party are fighting against who has the worst influence in settlement of the health business economy. I think there's a reason to look at the arithmetic that's being done here, and the arguments that are being used against giving more money to health companies. It's kind of a math thing in line with counting that you're older than your own father! I think that 2 billion kroner must be 2 billion kroner, whether they are granted in 2004 or 2005. When there is an operating deficit of more than DKK 2 billion, it is clear that now in 2004 2 billion DKK will at least correct a large part of the imbalance and the debt situation, for which a certain responsibility must be assumed by the State, I tipped, in 2005 in any case, as the balance sheet requirement is also set so clearly until 2005. It would, as the Centre Party and the Advance Party now say, put health businesses in a better position at the time of the closure of the 2004 accounts, giving greater scope for action, mainly for patient treatment, in 2005. Government parties The Right and Christian People's Party clearly state that one must insist on undermining the state's ownership and budgetary discipline in health businesses if one grants more money. I think it will be a very focus on budgetary balance and discipline and little focus on what we should agree on, namely the patient first. At the same time, the same two parties say that ‘reimbursing certain regional health establishments, either in the form of supplementary appropriations or in the form of debt cancellations, will undermine the incentives of health businesses in both the short and long term as regards compliance with the framework conditions granted by the Stortinget’. But what have the government parties and the Progress Party done in the conciliation? Yes, they have, among other things, found special solutions for Health South. So this doesn't last! We want to improve the framework conditions and thus improve the possibilities for patient treatment in healthcare businesses. We have done so on several occasions. I think it's a very difficult requirement Stortinget sets. The size is the granting authority in a shared responsibility with the Government vis-à-vis the health enterprises. We say there should be a balance in 2005, and we know that by the beginning of 2005, the debt situation and the operational situation are difficult due to under-budgeting. I think we should agree to do something about the framework conditions. So how health companies spend their money. The Minister of Health, as a general meeting, can influence this to a great extent in his letter of formal notice. When the Senterpartie and SV wrote so much about the wage developments that are wrong in health companies, on which the representative Höie was involved, and when we also wrote something about pension developments, where was the representative Höie and Right then? Why couldn't they have joined part of what we wrote about that we need to better manage wage developments in health businesses? There are some reasons here and some arguments are used that do not meet objectives, the main objective of which is to improve the situation of healthcare providers for patient treatment and to give greater room for responsibility to the specialist healthcare service, both in relation to what is then financed by the ISF scheme and what is not funded by it, which is also a very great responsibility for the specialist healthcare service. That's probably what the Center Party is thinking about when we go in to increase the framework of specialist health services and hospitals, this socio-medical responsibility of the specialist health service to maintain emergency preparedness, to have a good ambulance coverage, a good food supply, etc., which is very dependent on the financial framework and soundness of healthcare companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e764	Only a few marginal comments relating to the suspension as it exists, where the Committee is essentially in line with what has been proposed by the Government. The Committee has provided an addendum related to chick cough. It was not part of the draft state budget for next year, nor was it part of my regrouping proposition, but when such a serious health politician as Asmund Kristoffersen, whom I have known over three periods, expresses “worship and concern” – when Mr. The Christian Sacrifice is both amazed and worried – so it also worries the Council of State! As far as this chick cough vaccine is concerned, it is said that it has been recommended by the Public Health Institute for the last two major periods. So there are relatively well-known issues, regardless of who has been sitting in government offices, if that's a point. So if there is reason for ‘wonder and worry’ today, it might suggest that the Kristoffersen has been both amazed and worried for quite a long time. Now, however, I think we're just going to enjoy the fact that the Storting Social Committee has taken hold of this case and done what it's done, and we're going to do it, of course. I will also add to what Kristoffersen went on to say in his post, where he wondered if there were other technical recommendations for which there was no money, that there are many! It's a very long list. We probably had to have a state budget of $65 billion, probably, in order to do all that medicine can do, and that you'll always find a professional medical group that will advocate. I think that's definitely true. In the case of regional health companies, I will not become a promoter of the fight between the gladiators in the hall, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, about who is the best, and who is the worst. The fact that the parties are laying off each other may keep them going, but let me say that it is at least a significant challenge to have 80 hospitals divided into 30 companies, which are again divided into five regional health establishments. They have a budget of $65 billion, 1 pst. deviations amount to 650 million. kr. The representative, Molvik, said that the health budget is growing at NOK 5 billion. It is as much as the total budget of two or three other departments. It's growing just in this area. It is clear that what is said from this pulpit, as well as what is in the settings, is not irrelevant for how it acts out there. Now I'm not going to ask for more alms than I legitimately deserve, but I think it would be wise for us, in total, to follow up on what the Storting says now related to balance, that you try to get a concentration in the business about the $65 billion they've got, and to a lesser extent concentrate on the half or the whole billion they didn't get, or maybe get in half a year. It takes focus away from what is absolutely necessary. If there's one thing I'm pretty sure about in Norwegian health care, it's that the need for adaptations and conversions is exactly the same whether the budget is $65 billion, $64 billion or $66 billion. It is also a responsibility that we have. Otherwise, it is not quite as the representative, Mr Glötvold, said, that there is a shared responsibility between big business and government. The Storting and the Government have no shared responsibility, as far as I can get on the go. The responsibility lies either in one place or another. I believe that it is my responsibility to ensure that the law and the letter of plenary decisions are implemented. I'm also going to try that out, but it's a significant challenge, especially in one health company, in Health South. In view of the comment on this company from the majority of the committee in the budget position itself, I can say that we are already in a dialogue and that it will be a very close follow-up by the department, which will be reflected in the corporate meeting that we are going to have at the beginning of January. We need to have a very close follow-up in order to meet the Storting's intention, that we should balance. I think, to the extent that it is quite timely, what the representative, Mr Molvik, also pointed out, that there are several reasons why we are not in balance. You have to, for example, do not underestimate the effect of wage increases far beyond the general wage growth and price rise. There'll be no more patient treatment if people get 10 pst. more in wages and salaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e782	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e785	I'm not going to add up to continue the big holm walk about the hospital economy next year, but I think it must be important that we in Stortinget have a common attitude to and a general knowledge of how a hospital economy works. If we don't know the basics of how a hospital economy works now, we can at least have big problems controlling it. What made me take the floor was what the chairman of the committee said in his statement. Now, of course, I don't have that in writing, but I think I'm quoting the representative Alvheim fairly right, if I say that he said, if we don't clean up debt this year, a business in balance next year becomes utopian. It is a statement I am completely incomprehensible to. That's when I ask whether the representative Alvheim understands the economic system, because if you donate NOK 2 billion this year, it will only lead to those who may be in deficit this year – and most healthcare companies do – getting a smaller need for a possible credit next year. Then it's the interest rate effect of the credit that has something to do with the operating situation next year. With today's interest rate level, NOK 2 billion will amount to approx. 60 million. kr next year. So a budget for a debt cancellation of NOK 2 billion now will give an operational effect next year of SEK 60 million. kr. When reorganization of debt of DKK 2 billion is the prerequisite for a requirement for operation and balance next year not to be utopian, it is said in practice that the budgetary settlement that has been voted for is utopian. I could say a lot about it. So far I don't think I will go, but statements like 'if we don't get brown cheese now, the clock goes wrong' are pretty serious, not least when they come from the head of the social committee. I feel that this is all possible reason to point out. It will be a tough challenge to balance hospitals next year. They should have had a higher grant. We do not, of course, solve the problem of the proposal that the Progress Party and the Central Party are promoting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e796	First of all, I would like to address the proposal that the Central Party is promoting in the vote. So a little bit to this about who's the best or the worst of the Workers' Party or the Advance Party. I think it's very unhealthy and very square arguments that are used. It is clear that if a part of the operating deficit and the debt that is can now be recovered, it will be easier to meet a requirement that each health business should be in balance in 2005. Whether it's utopian or not, it might be that the majority health policy here in the United Kingdom is a policy that belongs in Utopia. That might indicate it. Otherwise, I would also like to say to the Progress Party that I am a little disappointed that they are dealing with incorrect information, among other things. by means of the news service here in Norway. What was said on the TV 2 news this week about the fact that only the Progress Party had proposed to cancel debts in health companies, is not correct. I would like to remind you of the proposal made last winter by the Central Party, when the Progress Party voted against such a debt reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e805	The representative, Ola D. Glötvold, has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e808	In this room you get to hear a lot strange. But I am, after all, glad that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen from this pulpit informed the Stortinget that he has things to do with hospital operations, and that he knows how a hospital works, while the representative Alvheim, who has even run a hospital, has no idea what is going on in a hospital. Nice! His argument that he is in possession of the knowledge he presented here only indicates – with many lines under it – that he does not understand the bearer of what is going on in a hospital, in relation to the task of hospitals to the Norwegian people. An enterprise that has to live on operational credit year after year will sooner or later end up in default. What is certain, at least, is that for the employees of such an enterprise, this situation will be psychologically very frustrating. That's one side of the matter. It's not just money we're talking about here, so we're also talking about psychology. We're talking about the working environment, and we're talking about safety, both for employees and for patients. It is also one of the main reasons why we are proposing to cancel debts of NOK 2 billion. But it is also equally obvious that it will facilitate the economic situation for businesses to get rid of 2 billion DKK of debt in view of next year's operations, and not least in view of next year's budget balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e815	This is not getting any better at all, because it is not ‘sounding clear’ that a commitment to a debt cancellation of NOK 2 billion this year will significantly facilitate the functioning of hospitals to the next year. What's obvious is that it won't. This will facilitate the operational situation of hospitals next year by about 60 million. kr. Although the representative Alvheim has been the hospital director and operated hospital, this will not lead to the lifting of the financial laws in the hospital system, and even though the representative Alvheim has been the hospital director, an allocation of DKK 2 billion in this year's budget will not suddenly work in a completely different way from that prescribed by the Accounting Act. It's unfortunate that reality is like reality, but it's no matter what fact I think the representative Alvheim and everyone else just have to take over. For example, a debt cancellation may have an effect on a case-by-case basis. has a liquidity challenge. A better liquidity situation will then be faced. Now, the main challenge facing health enterprises is not to face a liquidity challenge, but they face a challenge related to making their operations comply with the allocation. If you are concerned that the appropriations are too small in relation to the operation, you must either make sure to cut the operation or increase the appropriations. But at least the answer is not a debt cancellation. I have to point that out, because insofar as hospitals face major challenges for next year – and they do – the proposal that the Progress Party and the Centre have promoted today is therefore not the answer to the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e824	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1270]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e839	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1273]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e854	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1273]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e869	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1273]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e884	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1274]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e899	At the request of the family, culture and the Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e908	In this case, an overall committee, all except the Advancement Party, believes that there are no arguments in the background to the proposal by Carl I. Hagen, Karin S. Woldseth and Ulf Erik Knudsen which give reason to amend the decisions taken earlier. The majority refers to the follow-up by the Government to the decision of the Storting relative to ESA, and emphasises once again that it is up to the Government to handle it. The majority also refers to letters from the Ministry of Culture and the Church of 8 December 2004, and would not, in this context, endorse the proposal, but would suggest that the proposal be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e919	This might seem like a reprisal of a previous Document No. Eight proposals, but it's not. The background for us this time to promote a document No. Eight proposals are that ESA and Oslo Tingrett both have said that the decision on monopoly for Norwegian Typing on automatic operation is contrary to the current legislation. The party of progress sees that this can be a long-standing battle in the judiciary. In order to secure the voluntary teams and organisations a certain income at the time the case is pending in the courts, we want the introduction of monopolies to be postponed. After we had promoted our postponement proposal, there was a temporary extension in Borgarting Lawyers' Law. It means, in substance, that monopoly cannot be introduced until the case is settled. The Council of State held a press conference last Wednesday, after having been in the mind box for a while, where she chose to allow the approved machines to continue operating according to today’s rules until 1 July 2005. I agree that this gives voluntary teams and organisations a breathing room and an opportunity to look at alternative sources of income. But I don't understand why the government couldn't have postponed the introduction of a monopoly on vending machines until the final judgment was given. If there is a delay between operation and final judgment, both the ideal purposes and the operator's activities could sue the State for billions. It may seem as if the Council of State wants to show who it is that has power, and who decides. But when that is said, I must also say that I am very happy on behalf of the countless teams and organisations that probably also the Council of State has both received e-mails and letters from, so that at least there will be a short delay. That the Progress Party does not want any monopoly, is hardly any great surprise here in the Chamber, but I must nevertheless say that I wish that the Council of State would look again at the regulations of today's automatic concessions, and read about the measures proposed by the industry to prevent unwanted gambling behaviour, or measures against gambling addiction, to put it that way. The gambling addicts don't need a state council that pushes them in front of her because she won't admit a defeat. Both the industry and a unanimous growth say that resources need to be made available for research into gambling addiction. That's what we need in Norway. It's not enough for one scientist to express himself and to build on the experience of one scientist. That's why I hope that the Council of State can actually consider changing the regulations to introduce that 0.5 pst. – or perhaps even a full percentage – of the profits will go to research and treatment of gambling addicts. I would finally like to raise a matter that has been going on in the media in the last few days. Norwegian Tipping has tried to cooperate with the Loan Fund. This is a mix-up and an attempt to buy customers for Norwegian Typing, which I can see that the Council of State has successfully cleaned up. At least this does not help to avoid more game dependencies. And this would give the council a clue that her intentions with the introduction of monopoly might not be the same as those of Norsk Tipping. It was good to see that the Council of State cleared up before any agreement had come into port. But the question that gets hanging a little in the air is if someone had responded if the media had not come to know the matter. I trust that the Council of State will have more stringent control over Norwegian Typing and the agreements concluded by an enterprise council are general meetings for. So finally, I want to address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e938	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e943	In the debate on the automatic matter, it is often presented as if there are some raw and cynical capitalists behind this industry. This is a truth with very great modifications. The community community community is the major recipient of these funds. Among other things, I can mention: Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Imbuds, Various It may seem strange to read out all these club and association names, but it shows some of the width of the community that enjoys these means. So it's not about raw cynical capitalists, but it's about this being one of the engines in Culture-Norway out at the local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e957	It probably also suggests that there has been an organized action going on. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1274]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e974	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1274]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e989	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1274]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1004	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1274]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1020	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1027	Today we are going to consider two proposals, Document No. 8:5, prohibiting the sexual use of animals, and Document No. 8:17, on punishment against sexual intercourse with animals. As the rapporteur, I shall now briefly present the unanimous opinion of the Committee. Both proposals deal with the same thematic issues and therefore the Committee has chosen to examine them together. Today, there are no criminal provisions aimed specifically at the sexual abuse of animals. However, following current legislation, other criminal provisions could apply, such as: the Animal Protection Act of 20 December 1974. In the context of the revision of the provisions of the Criminal Code on sexual offences, it was re-evaluated to introduce a separate criminal order against sexual intercourse with animals. The Ministry then concluded that it was most appropriate that this be regulated together with other animal abuses under the Animal Protection Act. The Committee considers that there may be grounds for considering whether the current Animal Protection Act provides a good level of protection against such acts, but the project group appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Fisheries has started work on the revision of the Animal Protection Act and will prepare a proposal for a new law during the spring of 2005. This working group will consider the issue of proposing a ban on sexual intercourse between humans and animals. The Government will therefore come back to the Storting with an assessment and a possible proposal for such a ban. The unanimous opinion of the Committee is that both Document No. The eight proposals are annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1042	I am pleased that the Committee shares the Ministry’s view – that the sexual use of animals should be regulated by the Animal Protection Act and not by the Criminal Code. The action is undesirable, primarily for animal reasons, which may be congested. As pointed out by the Committee, there may be grounds for considering whether the current animal protection law provides animals with adequate protection against the sexual use of humans. I will ensure that the project group appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Fisheries to revise the Animal Protection Act is briefed on the Committee's views.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1049	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1274]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1064	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1071	Today, we are considering two proposals for measures to limit the use of doping drugs, in particular for children and young people. I would like to commend the rapporteurs for putting this important theme on the agenda, because we are witnessing an unfortunate development in which more and more children and young people are experimenting with doping drugs. The bodies of sport have been working for many years to combat doping in sport. However, many suggest that doping is an increasing problem even outside sport. An overall committee recognises that this is a social problem that needs to be addressed by different instruments. In particular, good and broad awareness-raising work is important. Good work is done in school health services and youth health centres to capture children and young people experimenting with doping and other drugs. This work must be carried on with full strength in order to prevent further negative developments. The establishment of the doping telephone is also an important tool in which professionals can provide advice and guidance to those who are struggling with the consequences of doping and answer questions about the use of doping devices. As regards the issue of imposing a criminal prohibition on the use of doping drugs, the Committee has chosen not to address this issue at this stage. Punishment is the most powerful tool we have to manage behavior, and it should be used with caution. After Christmas, the Judicial Committee shall examine the proposal for a new general penal code, which includes: shall determine the basic principles of punishment as an instrument. A ban on the use and possession of doping agents must be considered against other means of reducing their use. In January 2004, a working group issued a report on issues related to the possible relationship between the misuse of anabolic steroids/testosterone and the risk of increased aggression and violent behaviour. The report concludes that there is no evidence of a causal relationship between the use of moderate doses of anabolic steroids and aggressiveness. This report has been consulted and the Ministry is now examining the views expressed during the consultation. The Ministry of Justice is currently working on a new special part of the penal code. In this respect, the Committee calls for special consideration to be given to the possibility of a ban on the use of doping agents. Efforts to reduce the use of doping agents must be met with broad fronts. An interministerial working group chaired by the Ministry of Culture and the Church has been set up. The working group shall assess the current research on the effectiveness of doping agents to see whether there is a link between doping use and violence. The Committee is aware that the working group will present the results of this work at the end of the year, and we therefore look forward to the conclusions and recommendations of the working group. On this basis, the majority of the Committee recommends that the proposals, Document No. 8:84 and Document No 8:89, annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1092	The use of androgenic anabolic steroids is a social problem that affects many young people today and that has major negative side effects from misuse. There is an increasing use of doping with a particular focus on the misuse of androgenic anabolic steroids within the non-organised sports environments and organisations, or simply used as a kick-off dop before crowds go into town. In SV we are very concerned about this development and therefore promote this proposal, because we have no time to lose. We are pleased that the Government set up an inter-ministerial working group that has produced a report in relation to the abuse of the AAS and the link to violence. The doping phone at Aker University Hospital shows a unique trend. Those who call for help have common features, such as their younger age, their long-term abuse of AAS at high user doses, their involvement of AAS with other drugs, and the accumulation and use of AAS as an anti-aggression drug before entering the city. It is correct, as the Working Party and State Council Dørum points out in a letter of 2 November 2004, that there is no causal link between low user dose and aggression. The letter of reply reads as follows: ‘The conclusions of the working group include that it can be considered well documented that anabolic steroids at doses up to low doping doses have little or no influence on the level of aggression of the person. ‘... Here we come to the paradox, as I see it. However, research with low doses of anabolic steroids does not reveal an increased risk of aggression in users, there is no scientific evidence against such a relationship between the increase in violence and aggression at higher doses of anabolic steroids. Of course, similar experimental research at higher user doses cannot be carried out because it would be medically unethical. However, there are many other sources of evidence that there is a link between long-term use, high doses of anabolic steroids and increased aggression, often related to the use of other drugs. In Sweden, a total ban on all types of doping was introduced in 1998 and specialised clinics for the treatment of abuse of AAS were started because side effects and injuries are so extensive. In February 1995, the Swedish Social Committee held a public hearing in which a link was found between the use of anabolic steroids and serious crime. Much spoke for that many of the perpetrators involved, for a long time, had used anabolic steroids in connection with training. At the time, the Swedes also had a significant problem with the illegal introduction of steroids, especially from old Eastern bloc countries. Experience from other countries is allowed, especially from Nordic countries, which in other contexts are similar to us. SV hopes that everyone sees the problem and is willing to put in place the necessary measures without further delay. We believe we have no time to lose. I am promoting the proposal we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1116	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1119	It is an objective to limit the use of doping agents. In recent years, we have seen signs of an increase in the acquisition, possession and use of doping. It is also reported that users appear to be getting younger. This is worrying. Sport bodies have done and are doing a lot to combat doping in sport. However, many suggest that doping is an increasing problem outside organised sport. Work in school health services and in health centres for young people is very important in capturing children and young people experimenting with doping and other drugs. The establishment of the doping telephone is also an important tool. By calling this telephone service you will receive professional advice and guidance on the adverse effects of doping. However, the starting point of this debate is what should be done further to reduce the use of doping drugs. The answer to this question is not easy to give. One can imagine a ban in the penal code on the use, possession and marketing of doping drugs. The Christian People's Party will keep this possibility open and will conclude when the Stortinget receives proposals for a new special part of the penal code for treatment. Despite the fact that we have not concluded, I will draw up some problematic aspects of such a ban. In the research community, there is a debate and a continuous assessment of the relationship between the use of doping drugs and the increased use of violence and the risk of somatic health damage. Very well-known, a causal relationship has not yet been established between the misuse of anabolic steroids and the risk of increased aggression and violent behaviour. But research is still ongoing. When current knowledge of doping injuries is seen in the context of the Ot.prp Government. No 90 for 2003–04 suggests that the so-called harm-reduction principle underpins new criminal law, a dilemma arises. We can do it per day. to demonstrate today that doping agents do not harm anyone other than those who use them. Should this be prohibited in the penal code? I ask the question – and keep the answer open. The examination by the Judicial Committee of proposals for a new general part of the penal code will clarify the principles on which the law is to be based. These will then premise which actions are to be prohibited in the specific part of the law. We aim to deal with the proposal for a new general part before Easter and will be able to have a clearer view of whether the abuse of doping should be combated by a ban in the penal code. In any case, prevention by parents, teachers, organisations and other youth leaders is more important than law-enforcement, investigation and punishment. Abuse of doping drugs is undoubtedly not good for the individual. Therefore, in the Christian People's Party, we will continue to work to find ways to reduce the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1145	When the Senterpartie took up this matter regarding doping use, it was among other things. based on the recognition that this has increased enormously in recent years. Thus, a time series of seizures of doping drugs has been recorded between 2000 and 2003. The Customs Directorate, the police and the sports community are asking for help and clearer guidelines, and a law that can address this. I think it is a very defensive setting that is being treated here today. I am aware that there is an ongoing sample that will present its setting now at the turn of the year. I hope that it really will be at the turn of the year, so that we can get hold of this and deal with what comes from this sample, before the Storting goes apart in the spring of 2005. There is much discussion about the use of doping drugs and whether this leads to increased aggression and violent behaviour. We know that in Sweden there was a total ban on any kind of doping in 1998. We also know that they have a specialised clinic for the treatment of drug users, and that they have conducted a much more thorough research than we have. We also know – from Sweden – that major and serious violence can be traced back to doping. It should be possible to learn a little from the neighbor in the east, when we have as comparable relationships as we do, and when maybe the research there has come much further than it has here in Norway. The Antidoping Norway Foundation and the doping telephone at Aker University Hospital have asked that this be addressed to a greater extent, expressing concern for the increasing use of doping drugs and for the growing younger users. Young people down to the age of 12 to 13 now use doping drugs. In the SV proposal, there is a question of financing this work in addition to typing agents. I agree that we should do that. Already in the Budget-inner. S. No 11 now in the fall, the Centerparte put in money for, among other things. The Antidoping Norway Foundation should have more resources both for research and in relation to impact and prevention. In the letter from the department, there are some things that I find interesting. Among other things, it says here: ‘In my opinion, the challenges associated with doping abuse as a social problem must be met on a broad front. At the same time, however, we need to assess what measures can be realistic and consistent with the size and nature of the problem.’ We know from our neighboring country that the use of doping leads to increased aggression and violence. Representatives of the sport ask for help through the law to provide them with a basis for their anti-doping work. Then I am surprised that the Minister of Justice says that a rule of law may not be a realistic tool. I think we should have gone that far already. Violence and criminal behaviour go beyond third parties, and they have detrimental effects on society. Then I think that our law should contain something about doping abuse. It is shown, among others: to strengthen prevention and do more within it, and that is good. Then you say that youth health centers – and praise it in the clouds, almost – are an important arena here. Yeah, that's right and important. But then we are told that the health stations for young people are struggling operationally. Several municipalities are building up this business because it is too bad to be able to maintain it. Then it becomes defensive when you refer here to a tool that has problems. However, some of the batches have tried to increase the operational framework of health centres for young people, including: based on the recognition that there is an important work to be done in relation to anti-doping, but I think most of the work around this case is going to be defensive. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Centre Party. I'm excited about what the Minister of Justice is now saying he wants to do with that proposal. I would also like to signal that we subsidiaryly support SV's minority proposals. I am sorry that they have drawn paragraph 1 of their original proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1169	The representative, Ola D. Glütvold, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1172	It is tempting to start the post by commenting on some of the things that were going on in the previous speech – because he showed the good experiences of the neighbor in the east. Of course, you should listen to the neighbor when the neighbor does reasonable things. But it's probably the case that the representative Glow violence and I are somewhat skeptical about some other things you do in the east, for example. to a certain membership of a larger association further south. So if you do something in the east, it doesn't have to make sense anyway -- without me going to drag that debate any further. What is important in this context, I think, is essentially the attitude that society has towards this problem. The nice thing about being a big-time representative is that you have the opportunity to pick up what you're burning for, which you're affected by, and which you actually have the opportunity to do. That is why I should like to pay tribute to the rapporteurs for these two proposals that are now under consideration. That's how you create consciousness and challenge the political system to do something about things – even when it comes to the level at which it's done. I think it's really important to focus on the mind-creating work. So I also think that if we put this under the penal code, that doesn't remove that problem. The only thing we would focus on then is the tool. I'm not sure a criminal order is the only solution. I think it's the attitude that over time will give us a solution to this. It's also a fact, unfortunately, that banning everything you don't like doesn't necessarily lead to success. There are probably other instruments that are better in that way. Therefore, the Progress Party has come to the conclusion that in this matter we will be a little daring, but we will listen to the knowledge and the input we get from the trade unions. If we see through this process that there is a need to intervene and do something about the law, we will, of course, do it, but then we will assume that we are convinced that it will be the best measure. I think, as I said, that the most important thing we can do is that we have awareness of the problems, and that we then evaluate them further, before we intervene and take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1181	There is every reason to pay attention to doping abuse both within organised sport and outside settings. The question of criminalising the acquisition, possession and use of doping agents raises difficult questions. I am pleased that the committee facilitates that the question is given the thorough consideration it deserves. The proposal will be considered in the context of the work on a new special part of the penal code, as requested by the Committee, and seen in the light of the Stortinge’s consideration of the proposal in Ot.prp. No 90 for 2003-2004 on a new general part of the penal code. In this proposition, the Stortinget is invited to comment on when it is appropriate to respond with punishment against undesirable behaviour. As regards the proposal for an extension of the mandate of the Antidoping Norway Foundation to follow-up drug use outside organised sport, I would like to point out, like the majority of the Committee, that there is already the opportunity to follow-up action against doping use outside organised sport. The statutes of the Foundation provide that the Foundation may assume responsibilities in areas outside the field of sport. In addition, today's statutes state that gambling is not to be used for activities outside sport here in the country. Therefore, if it is appropriate to extend the mandate of Antidoping Norway in this context, the funding base must be outside the scope of the funds. The proposal to set up a separate research unit under the Antidoping Norway Foundation could go beyond the competence of the Foundation already today. The need for such a unit must also be seen in the context of the activities already carried out in established research environments in this area. An interministerial working group, chaired by the Ministry of Culture and the Church, shall assess the need for a renewed research effort on doping as a social problem. The Group shall take a closer look at the field of research and develop arrangements for coordinating research efforts. It is therefore premature to determine how the research and knowledge needs in this area should be addressed. Once the work group has completed, it will be natural to address concrete solutions. With regard to the proposal on how best to prevent the baptism of children and young people, I would like to point out that the cross-ministerial working group has been given the task of proposing action against doping as a social problem, including proposals for prevention measures. The work group’s proposals for action will be considered in the context of the Government’s further efforts to strengthen its efforts to combat doping abuse. Even now, much is being done to prevent drug abuse and to limit harm associated with such abuse. The police are also seizing doping drugs in connection with their general drug use. In 2003, 608 seizures were made. Primary health services, social services and specialist health services are responsible for implementing health promotion measures for vulnerable groups and necessary treatment measures for those who may be harmed by the use of doping drugs. The contribution to the operation of the doping telephone has been proposed to be continued in the Ministry of Health's budget for 2005. Otherwise, I refer to the views expressed in my letter to the Committee in response to the questions raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1200	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1204	With the post that the Minister of Justice made now, I don't feel quite sure about what will be the result of a treatment over Christmas. Nevertheless, I find it necessary to turn the proposal that has been put forward here today into a transmission proposal, so that we do not get it down. Otherwise, I have one comment on this with moderate doses, that there is no correlation there with the use of anabolic steroids and aggressiveness. What kind of signal is that? Transferred to drug policy, it may be said that moderate small doses do nothing. But we know that this would be the beginning of a user career, so it's the beginning of something that could lead to greater use. And then we have no evidence to say that using doping drugs does not lead to aggression and violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1211	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1275]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1226	Here, too, the Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1231	The Committee will give the proposers a boost to focus on the legal certainty of the rape victims. The psychological adverse effects of a rape can last a lifetime. It is therefore important that the police and relief services are well equipped to assist those who have been raped or sexually assaulted. It is also important that the judiciary treat these matters in a discretionary manner. The frequency of the review and the number of cases notified which end in a conviction are alarmingly low. The Committee considers that in the event of multiple rapes leading to a conviction, there is reason to believe that this would be a preventive measure. All experience also suggests that it is important for the victims in a rehabilitation phase to be blamed. The Committee considers that available and quality assured receptions, thorough police work, high levels of competence at all levels of the judiciary and assistance and assistance tailored to individual needs, both during the emergency and during the rehabilitation phase, are key success criteria. Even where the case does not end in a final judgment, it must be properly dealt with. In addition, there must be good offers for those who choose not to be subject to the burden of legal proceedings. The Government and the Advocate General have taken important initiatives in the area of violence and assault. I can guarantee that we are several who will follow the progress of this with the argus eyes. Patience has, in our view at least, been great enough now. The Committee has shared its views on what needs to be done to strengthen the legal certainty of the victims of rape. The working party and SV have made eight proposals in the vote. The majority, consisting of the government parties and the Progress Party, do not want to propose anything, nor do they want to support any of the proposals of the SV and the Workers' Party. In the opinion of the SVs and the Workers' Party, there is a big difference in how far you want to go in order to make changes in this field. An example is when the Committee jointly indicates that strengthening the 2005 police budget will allow the police to acquire video and audio equipment so that the hearing can be conducted in a better and more legal way. The SV and the Workers’ Party, on their side, propose that the Government should ensure that all police districts provide video and audio recording equipment during 2005 so that legal certainty can be strengthened both for offended and for possible perpetrators. This proposal is therefore rejected. Document No Point 1 of the 8th proposal on a public body to investigate the status of victims of rape is not promoted. Instead, the Workers’ Party and the SV promote a proposal for a detailed action plan to strengthen the legal certainty of victims of rape and to provide assistance and assistance. The focus of this action plan must be the launch of research related to the handling of rape cases by the police and the judiciary, identifying potential for improvement. We propose the establishment of an advisory body for the implementation of such an action plan. The proposal is therefore rejected by the majority. The SV and the Workers' Party further promote proposals aimed at strengthening the access of victims of rape to assistance and information. Firstly, we will grant offended rights to an aid lawyer in rape cases from the time he comes into contact with the public. Secondly, we ask the Government to put forward a plan in the revised national budget for how it will expand the clinics for victims of crime, and thirdly, we ask the Government to establish a web portal and a 24-hour green telephone line for victims of violence, rape and sexual abuse during 2005. None of the proposals shall be supported by a majority. The Workers' Party and SV will highlight the fantastic efforts of the two DIXI centres to support those at risk of rape in their inadequacy. We hope the Ministry of Justice will value the work of these centres to a greater extent than it has so far. As regards Document No: Point 3 of the 8th Proposal on the reception of rape and violence etc. refers the Committee to letters from Minister of Justice Dørum of 25 November 2004. This shows that the Social and Health Directorate, based on the monitoring of the provision in the municipalities of persons exposed to violence and sexual abuse, has developed several recommendations for the Government. The SV and the Workers' Party are very concerned that the recommendations of the Directorate are being followed, and promote proposals to this effect. In addition, we propose that the Government should provide available receptions of rape and violence across the country related to healthcare companies, and that medical/emergency services have the competence and equipment to ensure evidence. We note that the rest of the committee believes that the Government is doing a satisfactory job in this area, and that therefore it does not want to vote in favour of these proposals. With regard to the proposal for DNA registration, the Committee believes that the use of DNA testing is an important tool for resolving criminal cases. In particular, this concerns issues relating to various forms of violence, sexual law offences and murder. In addition, the SV and the Workers' Party will clarify that central funding for DNA sampling should be provided, so that the economy does not become a barrier to using the methodology. With regard to Document No: Point 5 of the 8th proposal on the provision of nationwide assistance and treatment to violence perpetrators, states the Government of the Action Plan against violence in close relations that systematic efforts will be made to develop the provision of assistance and treatment to violence perpetrators and offenders. This is positive, but the Committee emphasises the need for a wide range of offers and calls on the Ministry to stimulate this. We believe it is important that those who commit violence, or who commit sexual assault, are offered help and treatment. In addition, the SV and the Workers' Party believe that Alternatives to Violence must play an important role in such a bet, which must not only be linked to treatment in prisons. I don't have any more time, so I want to put forward the suggestions that SV and the Workers' Party agree on in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1267	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1270	The Workers' Party has promoted this proposal in order to strengthen the status of victims of rape. This is a right question, related to some of the worst that a human being can be exposed to. Rape can affect both men and women. Everyone has a claim to a life of freedom, without being subjected to sexual assault or having to fear of such an act. Rape is a serious violation of each one. Such an attack may cause physical damage and physical diseases, with visible scars, but such injuries are usually cured after a period of time. The worst is probably the psychological side effects, which often last for life, and which for a very long time can interfere with living conditions and life development. Rape is a violation of fundamental human rights. We know that fewer than every tenth rape report ends in a conviction, and that the certainty of this is that many victims of rape do not take the additional burden it is to report the crime. Today, only one in 12 women report rape. The Labour Party believes it is important to prevent rape. A number of measures are needed to prevent and combat sexual violence against women. If several rapes lead to convictions, there is reason to believe that it will also be preventive. When rapes occur, it is important that the victims know where they can turn and quickly get human and medical proper treatment. Evidence assurance that holds a court of law depends on receipts of rape where one has good competence and relevant equipment — for example: good photographic equipment. We are disappointed that the government parties and the Progress Party will not help to strengthen legal certainty for both offended and possible perpetrators by supporting the proposal of the SV and the Workers' Party that ‘all police districts provide video and audio recording equipment during 2005’. Training for DNA-track security should be provided in any medical care country around the country. This may help to strengthen police investigations and increase the percentage of information provided. DNA testing must not depend on whether the police have the money to do it. Therefore, we believe that an alternative, central funding of DNA testing needs to be explored, and that one should consider expanding the DNA registry. We have to put into practice the technology that exists, so that important evidence in criminal matters does not go into play. It is essential that there is a reception of rape across the country. It doesn't do it today. The government's commitment to having a reception of rape in each state is not sufficient, we believe. We're calling for a higher level of ambition. Rape recipients can provide very important counselling and psychological assistance to enable victims to progress after the attack. We are also disappointed that the government parties and the Progress Party will not be involved in drawing up a detailed action plan to strengthen the legal certainty and provision of assistance and assistance specifically for victims of rape. The launch of research related to the handling of rape cases by police and judicial authorities, identifying potential for improvement, is essential to raising the importance of this issue. As mentioned above, the number of rape cases ending in a conviction is very low. The right to an assistant lawyer arises when the woman reports the relationship. The Labour Party believes that this right should be extended to apply from the time when it comes into contact with the public, either through the emergency services or through the police. It is regrettable that government parties do not want to give women the right to an aid lawyer at an earlier time in rape cases – and help to ensure evidence better. This could contribute to the conviction of several rape cases and to the safeguarding of the legal certainty of both the victims and the perpetrators. Women who are subject to rape are entitled to decent treatment. We can no longer accept that women's rights in rape cases are not being respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1293	Getting raped is a very serious violation of the victim. In general, it is women, and it is a major challenge to ensure that they receive the assistance they need — from the health services, from the police and from the judiciary. There is cause for concern that relatively few choose to report a rape, and that many of the cases reported end in exoneration. It definitely does not contribute to the participation of others in the notification process. This is a major challenge for the police, for the prosecution and for the courts. For those who have been raped, contacting the health services and the police for assistance and notification can be a heavy burden. Therefore, insultingly, we need to know that it is a professional and good device that can provide the assistance we need. During a visit to the rape clinic in Trondheim, I was impressed by the expertise and knowledge held there, and not least by the efforts made to develop a good cooperation with the police. The fact that there is good cooperation between the police area and the health services is important for the best possible care of the victim. Unfortunately, the quality, content and organisation of the service around the country vary from one sex to another. Over the last three years, the government has given high priority to the fight against violence and sexual assault. In June, the Government presented an action plan to combat violence in close relations and contains several measures to improve the situation of people who have been subjected to violence and sexual abuse. Therefore, of course, I cannot agree with what the rapporteur and the representative Pedersen said in their statement, as regards the Government's efforts in this area. Firstly, the action plan presented by the Minister of Justice has taken a number of measures to combat violence and sexual abuse. Much has also been done in relation to legal measures. The Labour Party and the Left Party seem to be forgetting, is that such changes cannot happen overnight. We could all have wanted that to happen. But here I think we have to challenge victorious cultures and take inward that such work is long-term, and we have to have patience. Several of the proposals referred to by the representative Pedersen have already been put in place, including: an extended DNA register. There's a group working on it now, and we at Stortinget are waiting for that group to come up with its results. I don't think the government parties have any reason to support a proposal that goes the same way. I am pleased that the Government will take action to enhance the competence of the healthcare system in investigations, traceability and damage documentation in rape cases. This will be an important contribution to increasing the rate of conviction, and will also have a significant preventive effect. I feel confident that the government's work against violence and sexual abuse continues with great strength in the coming time. We must ensure that victims are treated with respect and dignity, while ensuring that prevention is strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1312	First, it is tempting to start with a comment to the representative Torny Pedersen from the Workers' Party. After listening to the conclusion of the representative Pedersen, I almost felt that this was an equality debate. She talked about women's rights as rapists. I hope that's not the approximation. The approximation is that the law should initially be gender neutral. If not, at my discretion, this will be far on the way suspicious, but okay enough! I think a rape is one of the most degrading things you can be exposed to. Either you're a woman or a man, I think rape is an offense that goes to those degrees by your personal integrity in a way that I don't think anyone else can imagine. I think that's gender-neutral. I think it's just as bad for a man as it is for a woman. I think the feeling is equally intrusive with both sexes. Therefore, the convergence must be that this applies to all those who are exposed to this type of abuse. That's the assault we don't accept, not who it's directed at. It's the assault that's the approach here, and I think it has to be the next one. The most important thing is how these people are met when they're going to tell them they've been exposed to something like that. The knowledge, understanding and insight that people you meet in the first line possess, I think, is one of the most important elements in this. Of course, this also applies to attitudes – the attitudes that one meets when one comes and tells that one is exposed to one or the other. One shall be met with respect and understanding along the way. If we don't want to end up with dark numbers, because the burden of standing up with this is so big that you'd rather leave it alone. Therefore, the quality of the people who face these victims here is absolutely crucial to the outcome. Furthermore, of course, the competence of police and prosecution authorities, which should provide a basis for possible criminal proceedings, is important. If you don't have those skills, if you don't have those knowledge, you'll get the result. This is absolutely crucial, and it is appropriate, not least in the context of the strengthening that the justice sector is now receiving. The same applies, as the rapporteur was concerned, to the knowledge and understanding of the courts. Even if the court is to be neutral, we also depend on the court to see things in context. If not, it will be difficult. The reason why this is so important is that a conviction should be based on objective, legitimate criteria. So we can't let emotion control us in this case. It's not the intention of the law either. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that we have cleanliness, cleanliness and cleanliness. It must be the overarching element of such an approach. Another thing that we sometimes also have a debate on in the Committee on Justice is the attitude towards assistance from the aid device – along the way and afterwards – from the victim, but also from the perpetrator. We sometimes discuss how to reverse the attitudes to a part of them with a criminal racetrack. There are also challenges with respect to the perpetrators — most often men — to make them work with their own attitudes and to gain insight into the consequences of the actions they have actually carried out. For all of us, the goal must be to reduce the number of victims of this type of crime. It's not until we can say that we have succeeded, that they and those measures were good. We see from the statistics that the numbers are going down, not because the darkness is increasing, but because the quality of the offer is getting better. Perhaps it is also possible to contribute through a mental aspect of the civil servants concerned, as well as society in general. In the budget agreement, the majority have pointed out a number of things that are important. We have decided here in the Chamber a continuation of the family violence project in Westfold, from which we believe we can take great advantage. The police are also significantly strengthened, cf. what the rapporteur requested of technical equipment. I think it must be an opportunity to get that. The sum of all of this must ultimately be that if more is to be judged, it must be because they have been proved to have done that act, and not necessarily to be better qualified on the statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1333	Both women and men may be subject to rape. Rape is a very serious violation of the individual. The psychological adverse effects can last forever. It is therefore very important that the police and relief services are well equipped to assist victims of rape. It is also important that the judiciary treat these matters in a discretionary manner. We know that many victims of rape refuse to report the case to the police. One of the reasons for this may be that getting reported cases ends in a conviction. The purpose of the judgments is to give judgment. It's not a goal to get the most common court decisions possible. However, there is reason to believe that the rate of conviction in cases of rape is too low. It is a challenge both for police and prosecution authorities and for the courts to contribute to the conviction of sexual offenders of perpetrators. The 2005 police budget has increased by a total of 465 million. kr. We in the Christian People's Party assume that this significant resource supply will enable the police to acquire video and audio recording equipment so that the listening situation can be implemented in a better and more legal way. We also assume that the police prioritise thorough investigation of issues relating to rape and other sexual offences. In our opinion, crimes that go on the integrity, life and health of individuals are the worst crimes. It is very important for people's confidence in the police and the judiciary to be able to facilitate their actions. We have to recognise that the provision of health care to the raped people varies in terms of quality, content and organisation of the service around the country. There is a cross-political consensus in the Judicial Committee that all victims of violence and sexual abuse should receive a good and equivalent assistance. It is the government's task to ensure that the goal is achieved with the very first. However, there is not only a need to improve the provision of assistance to the raped; there is also a need to make known the offers that already exist. That is why the Christian People's Party wants to develop an online guidance service to help people who have been subjected to violence and sexual abuse. Such a network service should be developed by the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress and operated by regional health establishments. The goal must be that anyone who needs the name of a crisis centre, a doctor or a psychologist near the place of residence can easily find out. I would like to pay tribute to the representatives Gjul, Storberget and Rui, who are not in the Chamber today, for focusing on the legal certainty of the rapists when submitting Document No. 8:94 for 2003-2004. The proposal has contributed to a review of what is being done and of what has been done to improve the legal certainty of the rapes during the Bondevik II regime. I think there is a broad consensus in the committee that the government has taken seriously the challenges of violence and sexual assault traveling. In my view, the action plan on violence in close relationships, which contains a whole of 30 measures, is a proof of that. The same is true of the appointment of the so-called "Commitment Committee" and the establishment of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress. We all want the legal certainty of victims of rape to be as good as possible. However, there may be some disagreement about what is needed to achieve this objective. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the work being done to improve the situation of the disadvantaged in criminal proceedings is carried out as quickly as possible and then followed up by the ministry. We are also very concerned that the action plan on violence in close relations is being followed up as foreseen. I recall that three of the measures in the plan directly affect the legal certainty of the rapists. It is also important to give the time to ‘set up’ and to work before new measures are implemented. Furthermore, planned measures need to be put into practice as soon as possible. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government is working well to improve the legal security of victims of violence and rape. Much has been done, but the job has not yet been completed. I would like to wish the Council of States further happiness with the work – while at the same time ensuring that we will have an alert eye with the development.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1361	In the opinion of the Centre Party, there are in particular three problems that are related to rape in relation to other criminal acts. One is, as a number of speakers have pointed out, that there are very few who report, and the lack of reviews is itself a major problem. The second is a lack of support during the investigation, which means that many do not complete the course: investigating and processing the case, and it is also the long-term psychological adverse effects that the victims of the rape are exposed to in retrospect and that it often takes a long time to repair. I don't even think it's necessary to say that this is a question of equality. Obviously, it is a question of equality! I don't have the actual number, but I want to calculate that between 95 and 100 pst. Of those who are raped, women. Obviously, this is a question of equality! The fear of being raped is a fear that women carry with them all the time. I feel that the distinction in the vote is primarily about how far one will go in proposing concrete things relating to improving the legal position of victims of rape, and how committed these concrete things should actually be. The central party seems that the proposals made by the SV and the Workers' Party have made a lot of sense, and we believe that it would have been possible for the Government, without much effort and without great financial costs, to follow up the proposals made by the minority in the suspension. On this basis, the Centre Party will support the proposals made by the Workers' Party and the SV in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1372	I would like to begin by stressing that the Government has given high priority to the fight against sexual abuse, and in recent years there has been a lot of resources to prosecute and prevent this crime. Similarly, the Government, like the proposers, considers it to be worrying that the frequency of notification and the number of cases reported that end up in a conviction is low. It is also worrying that the provision of health services to the raped can vary in quality, content and organisation around the country. Violence mainly affects women, and represents a particular challenge for both justice and healthcare. I have noted that the United Nations has criticised Norway for not ensuring the rights of raped women well enough and asked Norwegian authorities to monitor and analyse the reasons for the many provisions and why there are relatively few judges. I can understand the criticism and the fact that those who are subjected to rape experience the order of things as both provocative and frustrating. Even though we've done a lot in this area, such criticism is a spur to grasp what's still going on. The legal protection of rapes must continue to be strengthened. In June 2004, the Government presented a new action plan to combat violence in close relations. The plan contains several measures to improve the situation of persons who have been subjected to violence and sexual assault, including strengthening the provision of health services and measures to increase the quality of track safety, investigation and prosecution in rape cases. In my regular contact with the Attorney General, I have recommended that he look at the possibilities of improving and clarifying the procedures for dealing with rape cases, not least in terms of police and prosecution cooperation with other authorities. The organisation of the investigation of rapes may vary geographically. Cooperation between the judiciary and other bodies is also necessary to keep an eye on it at all times. I'm going to do my part to improve the competence and competence of the police and prosecution authorities, which can help lower the order rate. A number of measures have been taken in recent years that, in my opinion, meet the need for a wide-ranging public body to investigate the position of women exposed to rape to be filled. This applies, inter alia, to: the extensive investigation carried out by the Committee on Women’s Violence. The committee presented its investigation in December 2003, NOU 2003: 31 The right to a non-violent life, proposing a number of measures to improve the situation of women and children exposed to violence in close relations, including proposals to strengthen treatment provision for offenders, to strengthen the provision of children witnesses to violence, and to propose the introduction of a new criminal provision affecting violence against women in close relations, to mention something. A number of the proposals made in the Women’s Violence Committee’s investigation and the input from the consultation round are followed up by concrete actions in that action plan on violence in close relations, including: to women who have been sexually assaulted. On 2 July 2004, the Ministry of Justice appointed a selection, the Committee of the Convergence Committee, which is to examine the fundamental issues raised in the investigation into the situation of offenders in criminal matters — Anne Robberstad:Contravention and dignity, 2002 —in order to strengthen their position in the criminal justice process, in particular victims of violent and sexual offences. In addition to the above-mentioned selection, the Ministry of Justice has set up a working group to assess some practical aspects of criminal proceedings. The Group will look at how insulted and relatives are met in criminal matters, the so-called non-judicial issues, and how to improve the procedures for the reception of this group by the police and the judiciary. The right to an aid lawyer is currently exercised when there is a case for infringement of, inter alia: the law of the Member State of the first Member State of the first Member State of the first Member State of the first Member State of the first Member State of the first Member State of the first Member State of the first Member State of the first Section 107a of the Criminal Procedures Act. The current link between the aid lawyer scheme and notification requirements has good grounds and should be maintained. When the right to an aid lawyer is to be exercised, inter alia: are seen in the context of the role and duties of the lawyer for assistance. Further efforts should also be made to clarify the need for legal assistance for victims of rape if the situation is not reported. Aid to promote non-criminal claims is already covered by the Law on Legal Assistance. The Ministry of Health and Health will follow-up measures to improve the situation of country-wide receptions of rape and violence, linked to health businesses, and that medical/emergency services have the competence and equipment to ensure evidence, as stated. St. Prop. No 1 for the Ministry of Health and Welfare 2004-2005. DNA profiles have become increasingly important evidence in criminal matters. An effective fight against crime could mean that there should be further access to registration in the central register of DNA profiles than current rules allow. However, the protection of privacy and legal certainty must also be taken into account. In order to assess the issues in this context, the Government appointed a sample on 2 July 2004 to assess whether and how legislative and regulatory changes could possibly extend access to, inter alia, taking DNA samples, making access the same as for fingerprints, and opening up to record DNA profiles in several types of cases. Let me end by stressing that the Government stresses that legal certainty is more than the legal certainty of an individual towards the state. Legal certainty is also the legal certainty of a citizen against infringements by other citizens. In my opinion, we can do a lot without violating legal certainty in legal processes, and this also applies in the area that is the topic of initiatives and debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1408	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1412	I would like to highlight something that emerged in the debate, for example. by the representative of Linda Cathrine Hofstad. She says it must not be believed that the work to strengthen the legal security of the rape victims has been done overnight. No, we don't think so. But we cannot accept that the patience that has been displayed on behalf of the victims of rape for so many years is allowed to continue. Hofstad also points out that several of the proposals that have been promoted have been taken care of by the Government, she brings forward the proposal for DNA registration as an example. The proposal for DNA registration is not promoted in the setting in this case from our two parties. I must also say that I am very surprised that no more than the Workers' Party and SV can refer to the actual situation regarding the position of victims of rape in Norway today. We refer to very clear facts about the situation – for example: that less than every 10 rape reports end in a conviction that 681 rapes were reported in 2002 and 724 in 2003. In 2002, only 52 cases led to criminal reactions. It is also estimated that only one in 12 women report a rape. The fact that this is not something that the committee can join is totally incomprehensible to me. In my own county, Vestfold, there is no rapist. A person who is in the worst crisis of his life has no website to visit or a phone to call to know where she – most often – or he – can get help. There is no advisory office for victims of crime in Westfold that can provide information and assistance or, for example, provide information. may be a testimony if she is so fortunate to have the matter brought before the court. There is no treatment available either, because the queues in psychiatry are so long that one has to choose between waiting for several months, maybe a year, to get help, and to pay in expensive judges, which is often the type of victims that cannot afford because they often have financial problems as a result of the abuse that has occurred. So the Party of Advancement is drawing up that if more people are to be judged, there must be evidence. Talk about turning open doors! The question is, how are we going to be able to get that evidence? This is the case, for example. the central reception of rape. Then it's central that there's a high level of competence at all stages. Then it is also central that you are at all afraid to report the rape, in the certainty that this is taken seriously. Finally, I have to ask the State Council Dørum: how will the Government now follow up the recommendations of the Social and Health Directorate on the position of the victim of the rape? And in the case of e.g. reception of rape and the other recommendations made: How will the Government follow up on the Women’s Violence Committee? Will that be done in its entirety? Or do you just want to take it piece by piece and split and then leave a good part to – maybe a drawer?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1430	It is a bit bold to suggest that we should put in a drawer something from a sample that was reduced on the initiative of the previous government, and continued and strengthened by us. Of course, we take the Women's Violence Selection seriously. Therefore, a number of the proposals from the sample have already been included in the action plan against violence in close relationships. The other proposals will be considered in particular. They have been mentioned quite specifically in my replies to the Committee. I think one of the important things, which several representatives have been involved in, is how the health care system is organised. Here it is that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has initiated the development of schemes in the various counties. Of course, this is a work I will follow in my role as the Council of State, also because through the Ministry of Justice I am responsible for all the measures that are being taken to combat violence in close relations. And rape falls to the greatest degree within such a context. So I'm concerned that not only the field of justice, but the whole community apparatus, is going to meet this. I am also concerned that you get a public change of words, where attitudes are broken, and where it is about women who say no, being taken seriously. But I would like to show that in its time I was a strong driver to get the attitude of the Sex Crime Committee, that I proposed to criminalise gross negligence in the case of rape, and that in other contexts, of course, I value all self-help groups, including Dixie. I believe that by my own commitment, by the ministry's commitment, and by the government's commitment, I have a pressure. But I understand very well that you want to be a driver in this case, and don't even see it as politically problematic, because there's a pressure on the matter, is helping to keep a case up for something that doesn't always seem to be the most pleasant and easy to deal with. It's challenging legal, but the intrusion for those who experience it is great. The debate today, too, shows a broad willingness to keep an eye on the matter. As the Council of State, I am very satisfied with it, not content in the sense that we have reached the goal, but satisfied that it is such a pressure. Sometimes you feel that the pressure in Stortinget is unpleasant. I do not think a pressure in such a case as this is unpleasant at all. On the contrary, I see it as a will in Norway to keep the matter under way. I'm also very committed to it as the Council of State and I don't want to put that commitment aside. With the tools at my disposal, both as constitutionally responsible in the Ministry of Justice and as a Council of State in a college with other government councils, I want to be a driver, in line with the answers I have given to the committee, and in line with the posts I have made in the past and which I would like to repeat here, to stress both that I understand the motives of those who have promoted the proposals, value the pressure and want to testify that I am working very actively with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1441	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1275]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1456	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1276]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1471	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1276]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1486	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1276]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1499	We are going to vote on the matters that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1506	During the debate, Mr Fossli presented four proposals on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party. The proposals are as follows: ‘1. The Government is asking the Government to start negotiations between the State as a seller of property to the knowledge centre of Fornebu, Bærum kommune as a regulatory authority and IT Fornebu Eiendom AS as a buyer of property, with a view to laying the basis for a regulatory and development plan for the knowledge centre of Fornebu.2. The Government asks the Government to set up a working group consisting of the Ministry of Education and Research, the University of Oslo, Simula Research Laboratory AS, the Research Council, Telenor FOU and IT Fornebu AS with a mandate to investigate how the research and education activities at Fornebu can be developed.3. The government is asking the Government to see the development of an IT, knowledge and innovation centre at Fornebu in the context of strengthening the environments of excellence in the Oslo region. The government's work on the Capital Region of the Innovation 2010 project can form the basis for closer and more effective cooperation between public authorities and those knowledge environments on the basis of the agreement basis of the IT, knowledge and innovation centre of Fornebu and the Government's Innovation Plan.4. The paper asks the Government to assess how the country’s involvement in the knowledge centre, in addition to the exercise of its ownership position, is to be ensured. In view of this process, any assessment of State sales and other external assessments is stopped. Further work will focus on the establishment of a basis for revitalisation based on the input from the Oxford Research AS external investigation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1550	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 2, by Ola D. Glötvold on behalf of the Centre Party. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2004 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones732Regional health enterprises70Assistances to health enterprises, can be transferred, can be used under items 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, increased by 2 000 000 from NOK 1559 522 000 to NOK 3559 522 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e1613	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2004 State budget shall be amended as follows: CapePostFormsCroner732Regional Health Enterprises71Additions to Health East RHF, may be transferred, increased by 749 455000 from DKK 14 989 758000 to kr 15 739 213 00072Additions to Health South RHF, may be transferred, increased by 421,000 from kr 8 468 568 000 to kr 8 889 568 00073Additions to Health West RHF, may be transferred, increased by 370 100 000 from kr 7 449 723,000 to kr 7 819 823 00074Additions to Health Middle Norway, may be transferred, increased by 272 500 000 from kr 5 507 194 000 to kr 5 779 694 00075Additions to Health North RHF, may be transferred, increased by 246 500 000 from kr 5 294 483 000 to kr 5 5 5 40 983 000’ The central party has announced that they will support this proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e2700	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odel Stingen meeting on 6 December 2004: ‘The Government requests that the Government review the guidelines on the granting of compensation to municipalities for additional costs to particularly resource-intensive users, based on the objective of reducing time from recognised needs to compensation and present the outcome of the review of the Stortinget as part of the 2006 Municipal Economic Proposition.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e2716	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odel Stingen meeting on 6 December 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to organise procedures for the registration and evaluation of local authorities’ disputes for resource-intensive users treated by the State and to present how such arrangements should take place to the Stortinget as part of the 2006 municipal economic proposal.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e2732	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 14 December 2004: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for legislation whereby reimbursement to private laboratories and x-ray institutes is carried out through regional health establishments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e2750	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Asmund Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 14 December 2004: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the need for support to child care for disabled lone dependants and disabled dependants to try and work.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e2768	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the temporary suspension of the monopoly decision on the operation of vending machines be extended until the judgment of the EFTA Court of Justice and the Norwegian jurisprudence in the current cases of monopoly on vending machines are enforceable.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e2793	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen, representative of the Grand Duchy, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 14 December 2004: ‘The government asks the government to determine how the benefit of birth money is for those who give birth to premature infants and for those who give birth to more children.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e2811	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen, representative of the Grand Duchy, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 14 December 2004: ‘The Government asked the Government to submit a proposal to extend the right to maternity benefits for those who give birth to twins, vibrations, etc. in the revised budget for 2005.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e2830	There is a vote on proposals by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party from the Odelstinget meeting on 14 December 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Law on Social Security so that both parents are entitled to benefits at birth based on their own earnings, irrespective of the other’s professional activity before and after birth from 1 July 2005.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e2862	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Magnar Lund Bergo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, from Ola D. Incense on behalf of the Centre Party
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e2921	In the course of the debate, Mr Thorkildsen has tabled eight proposals on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e2991	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr André Kvakkestad on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 13 December 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up the fees for the Foundation’s supervision as flat rates and on condition that the government itself covers the minor income arising from individual formations being exempted from fees.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e3009	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative of the Grand Council, Kari Lise Holmberg, on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 14 December 2004: ‘The Government is asking the Government in the ongoing work on a general maintenance requirement for family reunification to focus on a comprehensive economic assessment. In this context, the Stortinget Government is also asking the Government to assess an increase in the amount.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e3027	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 14 December 2004: ‘The Government asks the Government to abolish the maintenance requirement in connection with the family reunification of refugees residing on a humanitarian basis.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-16.ana.ud1815e3049	There is no record.
