ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e28	Applications for maternity leave are submitted from the representative Trond Giske from 20 May to 18 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Ola Røtvej, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e67	On Friday, the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Einar Steensnæs State Council Svein Ludvigsen State Council Børge Brende The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e86	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. This government is an anti-business government. Unemployment now seems to stick to a very high level. We now have about 100,000 people who are completely out of work. Instead of doing something about this, the Government is promoting a whole range of measures that are moving in the opposite direction. We have recently seen it in the revised national budget. This means that the problems that are already in the industry will be exacerbated. Government cuts innovation grants to set up new businesses, cut research and development contracts, such as: will go beyond the construction of gas ferries, the cuts in labour market measures and industrial research — just to name a few examples. We already know that more companies are having trouble, or will have it in the current year, and not least, the supplier industry is going to have problems next year. My question is: is this the Minister for Oil and Energy concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e97	The representative Sylvia Brustad claims that this is an anti-business government. I think such a claim must be tested against the actual results of what the Government has done. There is no doubt that, through a responsible economic policy and by facilitating targeted employment growth and job security, we have achieved that industry has now increased its competitiveness. We see things going better in Norwegian business. Competitiveness is increasing. The interest rate is at a low level, thus increasing the competitiveness of businesses. They get less funding costs, and in this way our competitive companies will also have a better situation. It is thanks to the fact that the government has taken important steps and has taken the financial responsibility of housekeeping with the government's expenses, that this has worked. We are now making significant efforts to increase the innovative potential of industry and thus create sustainable, long-term jobs, which are important. Our competitive advantage lies above all in the fact that we have a skilled workforce that can produce new products that are competitive and that could have an interesting export market as well. It is true that there are also some worrying features in this. We know that the globalisation that comes about in the field of business also has a very strong impact in, for example, the field of business. the supplier industry. Compared to the petroleum industry, it is known that the disappointing search results of the 16th concession round have an impact on the supplier industry. This is why it has been set up to identify a significantly larger exploration area and to target the instruments both in terms of fiscal policy and in terms of research and development, so that this industry too can have bright prospects for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e106	I think it's quite amazing that the Council of State uses most of its response to say how well it is when it comes to unemployment. It doesn't feel like that for those around 100,000 people who are out of work, and who are worried about whether they're doing both paying electricity bills and keeping houses and homes. It does not feel that way for the many who are dissatisfied — perhaps some of them would have wanted and would have had the opportunity to participate in the labour market if the work force had been able to do so — or for the many who have, for example, been able to do so. They are now being pressured into a rather brutal working life because employers consider them to be too old. The council says he's going to measure on the actual things. Yes, the real thing is that under this government, unemployment has risen dramatically. Only within industry there have been 20,000 new unemployed in the last year. What we see from concrete proposals from the Government are measures that make it worse for both those who are unemployed and those who are in business and who are now at risk of losing their jobs. It is then that the prospects in the oil and supply industries are negative. And I ask again, does this council really not worry?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e115	Anyone who goes unemployed is a concern for this government. That is why we have focused on the measures to reduce unemployment. I want to ask Brustad to prove that the government has failed at this point, because we see that unemployment is now on its way downwards, that the economic policy of the Government is leading, that more companies are becoming competitive, and that jobs are thus secured. We have a growth in GDP greater than in most other countries, higher than in many of the industrialised countries with which we can compare. Unemployment is much lower than it was at the beginning of the 1990s, when the Labour Party was placed with government power. I would ask the representative Brustad to be a little careful in describing the conditions of unemployment, because this government can actually look back on quite good results in terms of increasing employment and getting unemployment down.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e124	There will be four follow-up questions – first Tore Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e127	What is a fact is that unemployment is breaking down, and unemployment is very high in the younger part of the population. But once again to the end of working life: by the last budget agreement, we had the payroll down in relation to the government proposal, from 30 days to 10 days. It was a step in the right direction, while the legislation on leave was also maintained. My question to the Council of State is, isn't he concerned about what we see now especially in the supplier industry, where they cancel people instead of using the permit rules? Why does the Government propose to cut down the permit rules again?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e136	It is true that there are some worrying features in the supplier industry. We see that international competition causes that, especially in work where there is the number of man-hours, i.e. hours worked, which is the main input factor, Norwegian suppliers have significant challenges. The competitive advantage is that Norwegian labour force is very competent and that we can still compete through intelligent solutions and innovation. The government's aim is to ensure that we can maintain the important competences we have in the petromarital cluster, and carry these key companies forward. It is also of great importance for coastal settlements, as the representative of Nordtun will know. We want to target this activity, not through general schemes, but by looking at the needs of each industry. We believe that the measures that the Government has initiated will be the measures that will help this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e146	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e149	It is interesting to note that the Government's budgetary settlement partner, the Workers' Party, is now attacking the budget they themselves have been involved in adopting, including an increase in the leave days for which the employer has to pay, from 4 to 10 days. There was something Progress Party stopped last. So to the supplier industry. There were hopes for the oil notification that maybe you would make sure that Norwegian continental shelf became more competitive compared to other countries' continental shelf. It's not a deafening cheer from the supplier industry or the oil industry. In addition, due to many circumstances, exceptional billions are now being rolled into the treasury as a result of the very high oil prices. Will the Minister for Oil and Energy, during the oil spill, be willing to consider including solutions that can make it even more attractive to bring up the search activity on the base, possibly changes in tax rules and other things, because of the new funds that can cover it, so that with the improved framework conditions it would be, we can give the supplier industry optimism?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e158	I believe that both through the general instruments proposed by the Government, including: with regard to fiscal policy and policy, and with regard to the targeted measures included in the oil notification, the Government has provided for important measures to ensure that both the supply industry and the oil industry will be able to continue their activities. We have to realize that some disappointing search results, especially in the 16th round of the concession, have created an uncertainty that is now affecting the supplier industry, so that we cannot prevent a decline in investment on a Norwegian base. But the government's goal is to balance this fall in investment so that it becomes as small as possible, and that is why we can keep the jobs. I believe, for my part, that the measures outlined by the Government in the oil report are well adapted, and they are aimed at increasing activity. But the government is not prepared to give ordinary tax relief to an industry that has a return on invested capital that most industrial enterprises can only envy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e167	Hallgeir H. Langeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e170	SV is also concerned about the lack of action shown by the Government when one actually has 100,000 unemployed. We had hoped that one could use some of the tools that SV has suggested, which will employ people, including people. in the energy sector. I agree with the council that there are some signals relative to tax, offshore, that can create some activity, among others. CO2 deposition, which is a good alternative to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I hope that the Council of State shows more activity here and has a greater willingness to realize e.g. The gold-fired project. Another issue: there has now been a high level of subsidisation of the shipbuilding industry in Spain, among other things. in the case of frigate bags. It may also be thought that in connection with the construction of Snow White, the same subsidisation has been carried out. What will the Council of State do to clean this up, so that Norwegian industry actually competes on the same line?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e179	On the first question, about actively exploiting the possibility of CO2 landfilling to get more out of the oil wells, I point out that the Government has actually arranged for more measures. With regard to the use of CO2, I point out that in the revised national budget, there is a proposal to set of NOK 2 billion at a separate fund for the development of gas power plants with CO2 management, thus contributing to the creation of a power supply based on environmentally friendly energy production. I believe that it shows that the government is acting actively. With regard to the relationship with the Spanish yard, which is now being punished by the EU because of illegal subsidisation, we know that this is a matter that the Minister of Industry is following very actively. It is unacceptable that there are no equal competition rules in the EEA area and the Government will not accept that unlawful aid is being granted in the sense that it is being cheated. So this is a matter that the Government will actively follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e186	Marit Arnstad – to the last follow-up question in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e189	I think I have a feeling that the Council of State is a little bit squeezing about the issue of leave. The big problem in the Norwegian economy now is that it's going pretty well, but the unemployment is breaking down. The government says in its revised national budget that unemployment is not going to decrease anything in particular during the year, with the policy pursued by the Government. Clearly, you need to be judged on the facts. But you're cutting 165 million. Innovation Norway, which has just been launched. It is a completely unnecessary and short-term cut that creates pessimism in business. As far as the offshore side is concerned, there is an industry in which we should have a natural competitive advantage that we could take advantage of. Here's the problem that the government has put itself on a business-neutral line that means you're not allowed to take advantage of the natural competitive advantages. The question is, When are the Councils of State going to do something about the anti-business rules proposed by the supplier industry? When is he going to do something about the construction of gas ferries and also about research and development in offshore that can increase value creation in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e198	To begin with, I hope that the representative Arnstad has noticed that the oil message stated that one would set aside NOK 1 billion for increased efforts in petroleum research. It will have a major impact on long-term investment in this important industry, and of course it will also mean that the Norwegian base will become more attractive and more competitive as we can develop new technology. In the case of gas ferries, it will also be known to Stortinget that the Minister for Transport has given green light to five new gas ferries. It is an environmentally friendly and interesting use of national resources. In terms of discretionary painting, I ask nothing but that those who assess the government's efforts be realistic about what has actually been achieved. We have managed to stop the growth in unemployment, which was worrying about the economic situation. We've not only managed to stop the growth, but we're now in the process of reducing it. So our policy has worked out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e207	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e210	I want to ask the Minister of Oil and Energy a question. In a panel debate at the EBL Winter Conference in March this year, State Council Steensnæs stated that he wanted to increase the share of renewable energy in Norway. The share of renewable energy in Norway is already 99 pst. So if you want to build a gas power plant that produces 3 TWh, you have to expand 301 TWh wind power – this is just an example. Regardless of whether gas power plants are conventional or CO2 management, how State Council Steensnæs’ wish is consistent with the strategy for the construction of gas power plants in Norway, in order to increase the share of renewable energy, which is already 99 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e220	Here I give the representative Korsberg straight away. Being able to increase the share of renewable energy is demanding when we are already at 99 pst. What is the Government's objective is to increase the investment in renewable energy. Through the Energy Fund, we have now set aside more and more to produce good wind power projects. Through a separate programme of district heating, we wanted to increase the capacity of the 2 TWh we have today, to 6 TWh over a five-year period. We are also betting on gas power plants with CO2 handling alongside the fact that we want to increase hydropower generation, not least through small, micro and mini-power plants. If we're going to succeed in getting a robust energy supply that is less dependent on rainfall than it is today, we also have to draw the natural gas into this. Therefore, my ambition is that while we are using natural gas, as I have mentioned, we are increasing the effort for renewable energy through the Energy Fund. We now see the possibility that we can have greater ambitions for this investment as the Energy Fund is now receiving a significant increase in supply. But, of course, the share of renewable energy cannot be increased when it is already 99 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e229	I thank the Council of State for the answer, especially the last part, in which he corrects his own statements from the EBL's Winter Conference. I think that's good. In the case of gas power plants with CO2 management, which is the government's rescue from a difficult energy situation, there is a technology that lies between 8 and 13 years in advance, according to SINTEF and the research environment. So to think that's going to be the solution, is like believing in Christmas. With regard to the investment in wind power, there is a significant impact on nature. You build up in the unspoiled nature. Defence is also problematic, and there are not least large costs associated with the grid. Does the Council of State consider that there is a need for an overall plan for the construction of any wind power plant, as proposed by the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e238	Just briefly regarding the statement that I had the ambition to increase the share of renewable energy. I want to ask that someone relate to what are the official records, not to what had to be quoted in the press. With regard to the investment in CO2-handling gas power plants, it is true that the Gas Technology Committee had a perspective of 8 to 13 years. The government's ambition is through targeted research and development efforts, and by participating in important international programmes, including: together with the United States and the EU, to speed up this time. I want to set ambitious targets to achieve robust solutions, and this can be done, among other things. by obtaining pilot facilities. In the case of an overall plan for wind power, proposals can be made. I don't think it's an appropriate solution, simply because the wind power has not yet been developed in the same way as the hydropower, where an overall plan has a good function. Now it is primarily a matter of starting to build wind turbines. So the overall plan isn't a right solution here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e247	There will be three follow-up questions – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e250	Renewable energy or not, CO2-free gas power plants or not – this government is playing Russian ruleet with many industrial workplaces. In particular, the Norwegian Forest in the Forest of the North Trøndelag, which now has a time perspective of 12-13 years to put in place a CO2-free gas power plant, which, of course, in their long-term plans will be far too long. That is why the entire corner stone company Norske Skog is now in danger, because this government is playing Russian ruleet with these workplaces. This government has also shown a strong commitment to local democracy. Now it turns out that local democracy in central Norway, especially in Trondheim, shows strong commitment and has actually put in place 200 million. kr in order to advance the establishment of a gas power plant in Forests. Will this involvement impress this government on the local democracy, when this involvement gradually increases and it also spreads to the North Trøndelag, where hundreds of millions of dollars are now being put on the table to get this gas power plant in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e257	I welcome the fact that regional initiatives are taking place. It is not just from the Trondheims region, but it is different regional initiatives, from the Grenland, Stavanger area, Haugaland, Bergen area, Trondheim and Hammerfest area, to name a few. The fact that a show of political will, while a person also comes up with the necessary means, is positive. The assumption, of course, is that one is within the framework of government and greatness. I have a good dialogue with the Trondheims environment about this. What I understand can be relevant is to co-finance a pilot plant in Forest to produce a gas power plant with CO2 handling, which can then be escalated to full size and thus possibly serve a fourth paper factory in Forest. I have good dialogue with the environment, as I said, and I welcome the initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e264	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e267	Finally, if what the Council of State said now means that the Council of State is interested in contributing to infrastructure, he will receive full support from the Workers' Party. Then I look forward to the gas message coming in June. Otherwise, I have to say it's somewhat unclear what the Government now really means in relation to the round of renewable energy. Yesterday we had a big debate in Stortinget about how to secure enough power for people and businesses in the future. What I think is quite obvious, is that you can agree on a lot in terms of renewable energy, even if the Workers' Party wants us to go even further. We agree to invest in gas power plants with CO2 management and related research and technology. But what's the main answer today and for a few years to come so far that we can apply new technology is that we have to start building gas power plants. If not, people and businesses will have to experience sky-high power prices again unless the gods are with us, and it is a risk sport that is not recommended. So my question is, what is the Government going to do if it doesn't want to contribute something more active and be a little more offensive in relation to gas power plants, if it's going to prevent that situation from happening again?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e274	In terms of infrastructure, I just want to remind the representative Brustad that the Sem statement makes it clear that we want to co-finance infrastructure where it does not lead to a gas power plant that is conventional, i.e. without CO2 management. It is such projects that, as far as I understand, are concerned in Trondheim. So the framework for government support for infrastructure must be understood within what the government has said in that context. As regards the investment in gas power plants, I believe the government is very offensive. Through a gradual increase in energy research – more than any other government has actually done – we have managed to produce interesting research projects that also seem to be well supported internationally. We welcome the fact that, through cooperation with the EU and the United States, we can produce such technologies, and with the new provision of SEK 2 billion for the development of gas power plants with CO2 management, I expect the time to realize such gas power plants has come much closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e281	Ingvild Vaggen Malvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e284	I have to say that I am quite surprised at the obvious change of opinion of the Council of State in relation to renewable energy investment. I can confirm what the representative of Korsberg tells us about the EBL winter conference. I was also present, and it was I who asked the Council of State a direct question as to whether he would go in order for the share of renewable energy to increase. The answer was yes. Now the Council of State says something different, and I think it's quite perceptive. Yesterday, Stortinget chose to say no to SV’s proposal for 20 TWh as an alternative to these polluting, unpopular and costly gas power stations that other parts of Stortinget want. We want a targeted investment in both bioenergy, wind power, an oak, small scale and hydropower, but it would not be as offensive and offensive as the government wanted. Stonnaes will build gas power plants with CO2 handling. I understand his problem with renewable energy, but I think the Council of State must be consistent. Therefore, I would like him to answer the same questions that I asked him at the EBL Winter Conference: Does he want the share of renewable electricity to increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e296	As far as the President is concerned, there is an increase from 99 pst. to 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e299	Yes, that is quite understood. What I have said, and what is in all speeches – there should not be any way to misunderstand at all – is that the government is holding on to its ambitious goals of increasing efforts to generate more renewable electricity. Let's do that, for example. through the Energy Fund, and there are very important and interesting projects in progress also in the field of wind power. At the same time, the government has said that the efforts to achieve a more robust energy supply also include gas power plants with CO2 management. We do not see that it is possible to obtain such a robust energy supply without also increasing energy production, while emphasising energy saving. It goes without saying that since gas power plants with CO2 handling cannot be included as part of renewable energy – it is environmentally friendly but not renewable – we cannot have any ambitions to increase their share either. It just doesn't make sense, and I think it must be obvious to anyone who has followed this debate and heard what I have said in different contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e306	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e309	My question goes to State Council Steensnæs. In 2001, the Christian People's Party agreed with the Swedish Government that the fall-back institute should co-exist with state ownership in Statkraft. But we have recently experienced that the Christian People's Party with State Council Steensnæs in the head has gone into the fall-back institute with something we experience as a hollowing-out. No more than two years have passed since the majority of the population have been forced through the reduction of the so-called Home Fall Committee, which is now in the process of its investigation. We have all thought that it is necessary to get investigations and documentation on the table before drawing conclusions, but the government has been busy in its privatisation efforts and is not taking the time to investigate the consequences. The Energy magazine points out that the legislative changes proposed by the Government will mean the elimination of time constraints, the elimination of relapses, concessional power, concession fees, nutrition funds, etc. Can the Council of State confirm that this falls away by the waiver of the concession obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e318	First of all, I would like to say that the government has as a policy that the fall-back institution should be established. It has to be continued. I am pleased that SV agrees with the Government in this and supports the Government at the important point. There has been a disagreement on how the fall-back should be carried out. That's what the sample is going to look at. I would ask that the representative Vaggen Malvik not cast doubt on the Government's position. This case, which is also for treatment in Stortinget – I don't know how right it is to go too deep into this, but it became a topic yesterday as well – concerns very small hydropower plants, usually owned by farmers and others with fall rights in the districts. The government has considered it important to be able to generate additional revenues and to make reasonable use of the hydropower resources, generate revenues and deploy hydropower plants which would not, in the same way as larger hydropower plants, run counter to important environmental and nature protection interests. These are small hydropower plants, up to 40-50 million. kr in investments. The ratio is that if such hydropower plants are to be developed today, owners normally have to sell them in order to realise the values at all. Because they're not allowed to rent them out. By raising the limit to 4,000 natural horsepowers, as the Government's proposal is, we ensure that farmers and others with fall rights in the districts can still own hydropower plants, by renting them out and thus receive eternal income. That's what's important. I am disappointed that SV does not see that this is primarily good district policy. SV has swung a Norwegian flag over this and believes that it is a gigantic sale of Norwegian footfalls. It is with respect to report completely wrong. In fact, there is no indication that foreign owners should have their interest in such small power plants. There are completely different sizes of those power plants. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e327	The President values the fact that the Council of State got into the hibernation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e330	I have noticed the statements of the Council of State in the Class Fight on Nationalism. I wonder if the Council of State believes that wanting national political governance and control and public ownership of natural resources is something that can dispel with the kind of accusations made in the Class struggle, that this is playing on nationalism. Does the Council of State consider that to be a reasonable argument, or does the Council of State understand the realities behind this? We're experiencing it as an attack on the fall-back institution, a law that's been in force since 1917. We see no need for urgent treatment. We want this issue to be postponed until the Home Affairs Committee has expressed its opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e335	I just want to make it clear that this is not selling out Norwegian waterfalls, but securing Norwegian ownership. As the rules are today, power plants of this magnitude will normally have to be sold by the farmers, because they are of a size that makes the farmers unable to expand them on their own. They have to sell. They are not allowed to rent out. Now the farmers are given the opportunity to rent out and get everlasting power contracts with the builders. What I'm responding to is a statement from the representative Vaggen Malvik: ‘With a pen stroke and in an urgent effort, the government will amend the law protecting Norwegian Falls against privatisation. Thus, the government privatises the property and natural resources of the Norwegian people in such a way that they disappear permanently.’ The kind of characteristics of farmers who own fall rights today, I take a great distance from. It is also the case today that someone owns these. If the Vaggen Malvik believes that this is sneezing privatisation, because they are not owned by the state or the municipality, I completely disagree. This is important property for farmers and others with fall rights and should still be privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e347	The President will express some doubt as to whether there can be everlasting rental income, but perhaps it considers it the most a theological question. There will be three follow-up questions – first Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e352	The leading newspaper in North Norway today has the following title: ‘Stop them!’ Furthermore, it says: ‘The story shall not be wasted on the property of the Norwegian people.’ I am one of those who have great confidence in what is in the North Light, and think that they often set a good agenda. I think the word 'gambling' is a good word, but it's an even bigger gambler who's under the sail. That's what the Government says about Statkraft. It is now said that Statkraft will be converted into AS, and at the same time that the State will no longer be the sole owner of Statkraft, because one has to go abroad and seek industrial partners. In my opinion, this is a very serious and big matter. My question to Steensnæs is therefore: does the Council of State not see that what is happening now, both with small power stations and with Statkraft, is the first and a very important step towards the full privatisation of Norwegian hydropower, and that Nordlys actually has a point when they say ‘Stop them!’?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e359	Let me briefly comment on the first, about gamble with Norwegian footfalls. I think the representative Ryan knows what I think about public ownership and Norwegian ownership in the case of Footfalls. I have expressed myself in the Elektem case, and I believe that it illustrates in a way what I stand for in relation to Norwegian ownership and public ownership in the case of Footfalls. As far as Statekraft is concerned, I would like to make a brief comment – this case is under consideration – that in this context it is not about any sales to Norwegian private interests or to the rest of the world. This is not a stock exchange quotation. It is not a question of partial privatisation. It is a reorganisation to do what was endorsed in the ownership notification, namely to enable State power, in any interesting industrial co-operation with other interests, to be included in important industrial strategies. This will give Stortinget the full opportunity to come back to and in other words have full control over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e367	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e370	The Workers' Party wants us to continue to have official control of our water resources and take care of our legacy silver. I agree with the Council of State that the matter raised here by the representative Vaggen Malvik concerns small power plants. I also agree that there is a potential to take out more force. That's not exactly what the discussion is about. Where the Government has been somewhat unclear, it is in relation to whether or not this affects repatriation and, where appropriate, how much is affected. Let it just be clear that the Workers' Party is very much in order to reduce the process time in such cases. We need to get such issues through faster to get more force out, but we think it has to be done in such a way that it does not affect the rules of the fall-back. My question is: can the Council of States confirm that it is possible to reduce the number of cases, because there are many ways to reduce it without affecting the institution of the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e379	I fully agree with this with official control and management of hydropower resources. It is also my opinion that the state and the public should have a strong ownership of Norwegian hydropower reserves and in Norwegian hydropower development. It's also important that we have what one can call the rhetoric, that this is the people's inheritance silver and the nation's property. I fully agree with all of this. With regard to these power plants we are now talking about, the small power plants, they are owned by private interests in the districts, by farmers and others with strong interests to live in the districts. I think it would be pointless if we were to add up to a fall-back so that these private interests had to deliver this to the state after a certain period of time. These are small power plants and they should be kept as private interests. Ownership should be in the districts, and we have no indication that this is something that foreigners would be interested in at all. I can confirm for Brustad that the concession follows this with a fall-back. So it's not possible to keep going if the concession limit is moved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e386	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e389	The centre party has no reason to doubt the desire of the Council of State to maintain the fall-back regime, and we also share the view that more private individuals in the districts should be given the possibility to operate mini- or micro-power plants or small-scale power plants, and see it as an important additional industry. But it is clear that this case illustrates that when something is done that could create uncertainty about the relapse regime, it is being reacted in the political environment. It is, in my opinion, a sign of health. There are two things that have created uncertainty in this matter. One thing is urgent. Why do we have to implement this now when we actually have the case investigation system? Why can't one wait for the investigation that's under way? The second is, why does one go so far in size as up to 40 GWh in terms of that type of power plant? It's very high in relation to today's concession waiver, which, after what I understand, is a place between 5 and 10 GWh.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e396	Today's limit is 1,000 natural horsepowers, a quarter of what we're now proposing. I assume that the representative Arnstad, and those who have expressed themselves critical or questioning about this, does not believe that we should now also have a relapse on the 1,000 natural horsepowers and deprive farmers and others with ownership rights of the important ownership. The fact that we are raising it to 4,000 natural horsepowers is very well thought out. The size of small and medium-sized power plants is still high. So these are not even the big small power plants. In other words, it is to secure the Norwegian ownership, otherwise this would be sold out, as it can be sold out today to non-residents and others if they are granted a concession. Then the representative says Arnstad we've been in a hurry. This has been out for a year and a half. Of the 20 hearing bodies that gave their opinion, we have one objection. It was from a stateman. LVK, the Landssaman conclusion of Vasskraftkommunar, has fully agreed to this. Everyone else who has been heard has agreed. I cannot understand that this is a matter that calls for such strong objections as what I feel some representatives have in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e403	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e406	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. Norway also avoided penal customs duties on salmon to the EU after a very long time of work. From that point on, quotas are now being examined as an alternative to criminal duty, and they are in such a process. I will be very brief on my first question: what does the Minister for Fisheries intend to do to ensure profitability and secure the future of this industry in relation to our main market?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e415	It is true that Scottish breeders felt the competition from a cost-effective Norwegian salmon production so uncomfortable that they asked for safeguard measures. The UK and Irish authorities then demanded that the EU Commission initiate a safeguard case. We have consistently argued that Norway has a good case and has rejected it. And we have announced that if necessary, we will bring the matter before the WTO, because it is clearly a breach of WTO law. We are pleased that we have for the time being averted immediate criminal customs reactions from the EU. It was threatened with 12-14 pst. 200 days, from 16 May to 5 December, which had meant 600 to 700 million. kr in extra duty for Norwegian salmon for the EU. We now have a good dialogue with the EU on this matter in order to avert new trade changes within this 200-day period, whether it be customs or quota. We also have a dialogue with a view to getting a more long-term, stable framework for Norwegian salmon exports. But I don't want to wonder what it can lead to, because it's too early. Our position is that we have a good case and that it is now important that authorities and industry, which have very good cooperation, keep in touch with both old and new EU members and prevent new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e422	It is well and good to keep in close contact with the European Union in this matter. That's absolutely necessary. But there are also some other things that should be done. Unfortunately, the Council of State has thus somewhat allowed the industry to sail its own seas by suspending the feed quota, which was an important measure, and by allowing 50 new farming concessions increasing volumes. His State Secretary has stated on several occasions that the situation in which you live has been cleared up by the industry itself. This is not the task of the authorities. This is too simple. In such a large and important industry, the authorities are responsible for contributing to the implementation of market stabilising measures that can ensure good prices and avoid counter-reactions. At the same time, much more should be invested in accessing other markets and taking greater market shares there in order to diversify sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e427	I am surprised that the representative, Mr Enoksen, lacks insight into the industry's framework conditions. So the feed quotas are tighter this year than they have been in recent years. We have feed quotas, and the concessions that have been granted in the last two years have not been produced. So none of these conditions affect the market and the supply of Norwegian salmon. I agree that EU membership would have prevented us from having such reactions as in the previous salmon case, as well as the threat that is now hanging over the industry. We are working at the same time to have fish implemented in the WTO legislation, as it can provide the most stable and predictable framework conditions for large fish exports. Free trade agreements through the EFTA system are another track we follow, and we hope for a rapid breakthrough, among other things. South Korea. We are also working on other markets: Russia, when they become members of the WTO, Japan and India are important markets. The United States, where we received a trade barrier a few years ago, opens up a ‘sunset review’ in 2005. So the government is very active in this area, and the industry says you're satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e435	There will be three follow-up questions – first Åsa Elvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e438	I see in yesterday's Northern Lights that the Council of State is being boasted of having done a good job to prevent criminal duties from being imposed on us in this round, and he is also being boasted of having managed to mobilize other members of the Government, Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, in that job. One cannot disagree that it is good that Norway has avoided a criminal duty on salmon to the EU today. But I thought we should be a little humble and ask: why does this situation arise? I then record that both analysts and professionals say Norway could have been a little more active and signalled that we are able to regulate the production in Norway. The possible suspension of the feed quota and new concessions that came last year are contradictory signals in relation to the fact that we are able to regulate the production of salmon in Norway. My question to the Council of State is whether we should not consider giving some clear signals on this very question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e445	The President will assume that the Minister for Fisheries must be concerned that he has been boasted in the North Lights.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e448	I take note of the description referred to in Nordlys, and I continue to work to ensure Norwegian exports of fish, which is Norway's second largest export industry, the best market access possible. Market access is clearly a responsibility of the authority. But I again stress that we have a stricter feed rate this year than we have had in previous years, and the industry has not only been satisfied with that either. The new concessions granted will not be in production and place fish on the market for a period of one to two years, so they have not affected this situation. The main problem for Norwegian salmon on the EU market is Scottish and Irish producers – i.e. Part of the Scottish industry, and therefore only a small part of the industry – sees this as a threat. At the same time, both consumers and the processing industry in the EU are committed to obtaining Norwegian salmon. That's exactly what has affected us that we've had as far as we've got. There are clear signals from the Government in this area. I understand that the industry has also understood that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e453	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e456	I agree that it is a problem for Norway that the Scottish and Irish environment is so eager to try to limit Norwegian salmon to the market. But we also have to take inwards that it is Norway's responsibility that we have an industry that is developing stable and balanced and that also has a realistic relationship with the market. We've learned that in other areas, within gas and oil. We should also learn that in the case of farmed fish. What's going on here today is if the Council of State thinks it's done enough in that area. I hear the Council of State says here today that we have now tightened feed quotas, and that it should implicitly be an instrument that has balanced the industry. The question is whether this government will continue to use feed quotas after 2004, i.e. that one sees it as a proper tool to try to stabilise the industry in the years to come, and whether one is also willing to consider other measures, such as ending the release of concessions and possibly assessing the introduction of POs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e463	We have announced that we will seriously consider any proposals from the industry, including this with PO. The industry does not have a clear idea of how they want such a PO to be set up, but it is a work we have started after the industry asked us to do it a few months ago. With regard to feed quotas, it is a fact that the year’s quotas are more stringent than they have been in recent years. It was introduced last year before the safeguard case was raised. We have announced that we want to phase it out from the New Year and introduce a new system that we have also announced could be as tight as feed quotas, but that will make it easier to exercise control, and there will be more opportunities to exploit the sustainability of individual plants. So from an environmental point of view, we believe that the so-called MTB system is better than the feed quotas. But in the work currently in progress, we evaluate all sides with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e470	Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e473	The Minister for Fisheries has done an excellent job avoiding criminal duties. However, as far as his heart is concerned that he would have released it if we had been a member of the EU, I do not agree with him, because, as the Minister for Fisheries knows very well, there are draft directives in the EU, but there are landing orders in Norway. So we have the opposite regime. Now I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries: what is he doing for the EU to comply with the EEA Agreement? Fish are exempt from the EEA Agreement and no customs duty should have been imposed in relation to the salmon industry at all, because according to the EEA Agreement, fishery products, fresh fish, should not be subject to customs duties. What does the Ministry of Fisheries do to ensure that the EU maintains the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e478	While there may be many views that can be expressed in relation to a Norwegian EU membership, there can be no doubt that with regard to the problems faced by the salmon industry on the EU market, both in relation to the previous salmon case and in relation to the Safeguard case, which is now running, membership would have prevented this. If Norway had been a member of the EU, it would not have been possible for Scottish or other breeders to require the Commission to take action against Norwegian salmon. There can be no doubt about this, and the industry – yes, not only the industry, but also the organisation ‘Coastal into the EU’ – is quite clear that, in terms of farming and salmon, we would have a stable framework for salmon industry, which had meant more Norwegian jobs. It is a crossroads of thought that in Denmark there are more people working in the processing of Norwegian salmon than in Norway. So we're in the situation that we export value creation. We export jobs in this part of the industry, and that's this part of the industry I'm answering for now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e483	Then we go on to the next and last main question in today's oral Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e487	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. In the Government’s proposal for a revised national budget, the Ministry of Fisheries has a large share of the budget. The cuts will, in my opinion, hit hard. The most dramatic proposal, however, is to terminate the main agreement for the fishing industry, i.e. to delete the whole fisheries agreement, an agreement that was concluded for approx. 40 years ago, and which is very important for life on the coast. Does the Council of State feel well to make such a drastic change for industry and local communities only through a proposal in a chapter of the revised national budget? Should not such a great conversion have come as a matter of its own to the Stortinge when you want to promote it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e494	The Government has submitted the revised national budget and as part of it also the termination of the main agreement. I guess I don't think it's right that we should take that debate right now. But I stress that we have done this on the basis of the recognition that the industry is now free of subsidies and that the arrangements that we would like to continue can be put into the State budget for the benefit. In this way, the Stortinget has a real influence over the regional or social instruments included in the main agreement. Then, last year we could see that the main agreement was adopted in Stortinget – 50 million. kr. The break came when the claim from the Fiskarlag was 200 million. kr. On the other hand, we need to be able to discuss the Fiskers' team with the organisational percentage it has of fishermen, but only what we need to talk about is this part of the industry's business. But this is a matter for treatment in Stortinget. That's where the Storting will know to make its decisions during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e499	It is well known that the Storting has given the fishing industry a special role in industrial policy, as well as in district policy, and the main objectives of fisheries policy can only be achieved through state participation and engagement. Then there is a question on my part: why will the Council of State notify the State of this important task and prevent the industry from negotiating these important issues? It's the ones who have the knowledge of this. Those are the ones who know where the shoe prints. Why is it so imperative for the Council of State to cut an agreement that has been there for 40 years and has worked well?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e504	We can probably discuss how well it worked when the requirement was 200 million. kr and Stortinget adopts 50 million. kr. Secondly, when one makes a point of the regional policy instruments, these include: this with structure, which was included there, a matter that the Storting will decide on each year, because it is financed on a fee basis. Yesterday we dealt with the notification of marine mammals, and the Stortinge made it quite clear in this regard that the desire to continue, to an extent, the support to self-anxiousness. Leadership grants are part of the contract that we have prioritised. There are mechanisms such as the Storting may now be able to influence in a completely different way than by adopting an agreement when, as for 2004, there has been a breach of the negotiations. I think that both for industry and for growth and government will be a more tidy condition that this is treated in the usual way, and that the industry no longer needs to have the support agreement, which is easily perceived as subsidising the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e509	There will be three follow-up questions – first Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e512	I have to admit that it could be tempting to go back to the previous round and feed quotas, but I will leave it and stick to the fisheries agreement this time. In fact, if the State Council considers that the State budget’s size grants support for leadership grants, minimum slots and such things, it has a smaller element of subsidisation in itself than if it takes the form of a negotiated agreement where the fishing industry assumes some social tasks, such as: to maintain the small coastal fishing receptions, for which the lead grant contributes?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e517	I just corrected the representative, Enoch, that there was no negotiated agreement. It was a fraction where there was a 50-million gap. NOK 200 million. kr. The government comes back to the individual elements, if we want to make proposals, and the Storting stands, as I say, of course, free to make the decisions it might want.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e522	Åsa Elvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e525	I believe that the reason why the reactions to the Government's proposal in the revision are so strong is that one in the industry has confidence that a fisheries minister who has made it a rhetorical point that fishing should become more shop and less policy will continue these important arrangements: the lead premium, the line-setting premium and the guarantee card. And I think the reactions are so strong because this comes in some bit of a revised budget, where one more argues that since the agreement is so small, there's no point in continuing it. One also liquidates the warranty card so to speak with immediate effect. I think that's why the reactions are so strong. We could have been with and looked at the agreement agenda in relation to who is going to negotiate and that kind of thing, but to do it with a pen stroke in connection with the revised budget, I just thought that I was a little disrespectful of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e532	I want to distance myself from the fact that this should be done with a pen stroke. The Government has submitted a proposal to be examined by the Stortinge in the context of the revised national budget, and there is both a serious and a proper way of presenting the matter to the Stortinge. I also record that the representative Elvik has not realised that the lineage allowance has already been cancelled, so it is not affected by this. So it's that there's not strong reactions, as it's presented here, to that we've suggested. In fact, I think that the representative Elvik, and other big business representatives too, should be pleased that we have developed this industry so far that there is no longer any need for subsidies. The industry has become non-subsidised, the agreement has been fulfilled, and the possibility of the industry being treated in the same way as all other industries, whether in terms of regional policy instruments or other instruments that the government wants to use, and should be included in the ordinary government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e539	Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e543	The Minister for Fisheries says that the reactions are not strong. He hasn't read the fishing magazine since Friday. There are very strong reactions to the termination of the fisheries agreement. The government should also submit a communication to the Stortinget on the importance of fisheries for the settlement and for the benefit of the coastal population in general. But the mantra government, and especially the Right, has, is that it should be profitable. I agree, but profitable for whom? Those who go to the sea, and those who live in the countryside, it must be profitable for, or it is those who sit on the Aker Bridge and swing large glass and say that it is the fisherman “my” who is fishing today. Is it for them that the Minister for Fisheries and the Right wants it to be profitable for?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e548	There is no doubt that the fisheries agreement has been primarily aimed at allowing fishermen to benefit from it, so bringing in other groups is most inexcusable. Secondly, it is a profitable industry, and I think that we should be happy that we are in the process of reaching in areas by region. What is reported along the coast – and I am moving quite a lot along the coast and living in a fishing weather – is that profitability is increasing, and that it is positive. So it's like asking for a message. The size shall be notified of the marine industries and the framework conditions and opportunities there in spring 2005. We've notified the Storting about that, so it's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e557	Aud Gaundal - for the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e560	There is no doubt that this is a fisheries policy, but it is very much a rural policy. And a lot of the content and arrangements of the agreement are precisely designed to create activity along the coast. The question then arises: when these arrangements now fall away, in what way has the Minister for Fisheries intended to replace them, so that the districts are not lost even more? Or is it that the fisheries policy should not be involved in creating activity and settlement along the coast? That's the part I kind of feel that in the revised budget we have no opportunity to see the whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e565	Now we should not exaggerate the importance of the fisheries agreement, which was 50 million. kr for this year, in a regional policy context. In this way, we will have to use stronger instruments in district policy than that. Most of this was linked to the subsidisation of self-anxiety, to keep it going, to guarantee lots, and it was linked to leadership grants. The Government will assess in the 2005 budget, which is to be submitted until the autumn, which of these or other measures of a regional policy nature related to the fishing industry to be continued. It shall have its say in the ordinary budget proposal, and the fishermen, and others who may be interested, will be able to influence the Size in that context. I think that is actually a better and cleaner situation than that we have an agreement. I also show that the breakage came in at 200 million. kr of the claim, while Stortinget adopted 50 million. kr. In such a situation, there are not many opportunities for industry to influence the size of the population. So this I think is actually a positive touch to the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e572	Then the time for the oral question procedure is over, and we go over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e579	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen to the Minister for Health, is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 2, from the representative of Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has gone away. At the request of the Social Minister, the question is moved and answered before question 12, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 3, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has been removed. Question 7, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Culture and the Church, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family, who has been away. Question 14, from the representative of Ranveig Frøiland to the Minister for Transport, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 16, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, the question is moved and answered before question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e611	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 2 will be answered later, before question 12. So we go to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e621	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e624	I want to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment: ‘In the context of the foreign operations in which the defence is involved, a risk assessment of the missions is carried out on a continuous basis. In the middle of a period of greater unrest in Kosovo and Iraq, the defence now wants to lower the risk add-ons in these areas. Does the Council of State now believe that the security situation in Kosovo, Iraq and Afghanistan is of such a nature that such a downward adjustment is appropriate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e633	The authority to establish risk supplements has been delegated to the Defence Manager. The risk add-on is differentiated to six levels, with the highest level intended for extreme threats. The assessment and any adjustment to the risk add-on is carried out on a routine quarterly basis. The level adjustment is the subject of discussions between the parties. The level is determined on the basis of the E-service threat assessments against Norwegian military personnel, the type of department and the nature and mandate of the mission. Any reductions in the Appendix may only be made after two months from the date of adjustment, while an increase may take place more rapidly. The Ministry of Defence has full confidence that the head of defence manages its employer’s responsibilities by continuously conducting threat assessments in combination with the type of department and the nature of the mission. The changes to one or more of the factors may, in discussions, result in an adjustment of the risk add-on. Under a collective bargaining agreement, an assessment of the factors for determining the Appendix has been carried out on a routine basis. Discussions between the parties have resulted in the risk add-ons for the respective operational areas being adjusted from the forthcoming quota change and not later than 1 July 2004. In Afghanistan, the additional risk for quota I to Operation Renewing Freedom was set at level 6, 11000 kr. This was based on the fact that the quota was the first and the present threat assessments. The supplement has since been maintained. A new level for Afghanistan has been set at level 5, 8000 SEK, because the combination of the threat assessment, the compartment type to be deployed and the task to be performed change. The risk add-on for the Iraq departments is level 6. The post offices we have in Iraq are planned to continue, while the engineering contribution is withdrawn as foreseen. The new level of staff officers has been set at level 5, 8000 SEK, because the combination of the threat assessment and the task to be performed will be changed. This is an assessment carried out by the Defence Manager. The KFOR risk premium has been fixed at level 4 since quota I in 1999. The current force in Kosovo is replaced by a helicopter contribution. The combination of the threat assessment and the transport operations of the helicopter compartment shall be modified in relation to the operations of the current army department on the ground. This means that the new level is set at level 3, 4200 kroner. The Ministry of Defence has, as I said, full confidence that the head of defence will discharge his responsibilities as employer and that the proposed adjustments are appropriate and based on the ongoing threat assessment of the E service, the type of department, the nature of the mission and the mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e652	First, I must thank the Council of State for a good and complementary answer. It was very informative for those who were not aware that it is, and that is how it works. That's about. 1000 officers/soldiers in foreign service. Obviously, for them, it means a lot of economic as well, in addition to many other things that make you go out to make this effort. But back to that with economics. That's what maybe counts a lot for the individual family. There are quite a number of people who are concerned about how the risk supplement is now being adjusted down, in a situation where the turmoil in this area is perhaps increasing. I see, among other things: The officer's union is very much in doubt if it's right to reduce this. We're not going to go into that debate right now, but I just wanted to light it up with this question and tell the Norwegian people how this works.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e661	On behalf of the Minister of Defence, I would like to thank the representative for thinking that this was an exhaustive answer. As I said, the Ministry of Defence has also decided that it is the head of defence who has responsibilities for the officers and the soldiers and is to determine the additional risk. It is established on the basis of a professional-military assessment of the threat picture. As I said, important elements of this Intelligence Service's threat assessment against Norwegian military personnel, the type of department and the nature and mandate of the mission. What is now happening in Iraq is that the majority of the quota is withdrawn as intended, and that will require an overall assessment by the Defence Manager relating to the various elements and components here. So this isn't a political assessment, it's a professional-military assessment of the threat picture, and it's a professional-military one. However, this is only implemented after two months from the date of adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e668	I just want to say that I hope it is an ongoing assessment. That's what I got an answer to as well, and it can of course be that some of this is adjusted up again when you see that there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e673	After all, the Ministry of Defence assumes that the head of defence, on a professional military basis, is constantly making the necessary assessments of the threat picture, based on the three elements I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e678	So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e684	This question, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e687	I allow myself to ask the following questions: «The killing of animals on the farm is described as an animal welfare part of niche production and value creation. Does the Council of State intend to implement solutions to reflect good animal welfare, optimal meat quality and sustainable value creation in the community and thus allow consumers access to short-range food anywhere in the country?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e696	The killing and slaughtering for placing on the market shall be carried out in an approved slaughterhouse, whether for an ordinary slaughterhouse or for a small establishment. In addition to legislation to ensure good hygiene during slaughter, we also have provisions to ensure animal welfare at the slaughterhouse. In addition, rules have been laid down for the transport of animals such as: regulates transport times. We cannot escape the fact that the vast majority of animals slaughtered here in the country must be transported, but also here animals must be protected and treated as best as possible. Today, the slaughterhouse regulation regulates the slaughter of bovine, ovine and porcine animals. The slaughter of poultry, farmed game and wild game is governed by other rules. In addition, the slaughter of all animals in slaughterhouses is regulated by the Code on the Protection of Animals in Slaughterhouses. Placing on the market, whether in relation to the farm or not, must be carried out in premises which comply with these requirements and otherwise comply with the requirements. The slaughter of animals on the farm of the farmer and his/her household is not covered by these regulations. For slaughterhouses with so-called limited capacity, less stringent requirements are applied which allow for some simplifications. New hygiene rules for the whole food area are under development and will apply from January 2006. The overall objective of the new provisions is, within a flexible framework, to ensure a high level of food safety and animal welfare in transport and slaughter. The new 2006 legislation shall be flexible and nuanced. Simplified legislation will apply to certain types of products traded only on the local market. The Ministry of Agriculture will in particular seek to adapt this legislation to traditional Norwegian products, where specific solutions for production, processing and distribution are required. Furthermore, it will be sought to meet the needs of establishments operating under difficult geographical conditions, in order to reduce, for several reasons, the transport times of animals in scattered parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e711	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now I have noticed that the Government in draft revised budget will cut the value added programme for agriculture, but I hope that the value added programme will be continued. And if it is to be continued, something has to be done with the slaughterhouse structure and the possibility of slaughtering as close as possible to the use. I hear the council say there are changes going on here, and I welcome that. But they should come quickly. I have also noticed that in Austria there are 5,000 farm slaughterhouses, and in Germany there are 9 000 farm slaughterhouses. These are small-scale bacteria that so absolutely could serve the value creation program here too. Are we more stringent in EU/EEA rules, or are Austria and Germany breaking these rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e722	Many people can gain inspiration and knowledge from other countries in food production. Here the representative gives examples of that. As I mentioned earlier, the legislation has some openings for small scale production. Then you need to know and take advantage of the opportunities that lie there. It is also true that for decades many EU countries have had a coherent tradition of small-scale production, and for administration in these countries issues related to such production are not new. As I have now gained knowledge, there does not seem to be such a big difference in the requirements of the legislation. Rather, it is the tradition, knowledge and understanding of such production that are different. It may seem that the administration of the countries to which it was referred has shown greater legislative capacity. As a result, authorities in many countries have seen the need to follow-up on a high level of supervision and guidance. These questions will also be followed up in the Food Safety Authority in the future. A separate project has been established to follow-up these questions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e729	I have a little extra question. There are many up-to-date niche producers around the country. Among other things, it has been working to establish top modern carnivals, where you drive out to the farm, kill and find the animal and take it into a processing plant. The legislation has so far been stopped. Will such solutions also be considered when new legislation is to be established?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e734	In the past, it was only pure that was allowed to be slaughtered in so-called mobile slaughterhouses. The plans for a mobile plant for the slaughter of small ruminants, bovine animals and swine were approved by the former State Food Safety Authority in 2003. Slaughter at mobile installations may be an alternative to slaughter at large industrial slaughter facilities and small fixed installations. For all these types of slaughterhouses, animal welfare and food safety must be good. Slaughter in small plants will, by experience, fall more expensive than slaughter in larger plants. I think I will finally repeat what I said on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, namely that the new 2006 legislation should be flexible and nuanced. Simplified legislation will apply to certain types of products marketed only on the local market. The Ministry of Agriculture will in particular seek to adapt this legislation to traditional Norwegian products where specific solutions are required for production, processing and distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e745	I have a question I want to ask the Minister of Justice: ‘The recent events in the West update the question of progress towards the efficiency of the rescue services. When is the Government’s proposal on the type of helicopter to be deployed by the rescue service available and when shall the Storting decision on a shorter response time for rescue operations be put to life?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e754	In connection with St.meld. No 44 for 2000-2001 the Ministry of Justice is working on a number of improvement and efficiency measures for the rescue helicopter service. The representative addresses two of the main points of this improvement work. The Government considers whether the acquisition is to take place by renegotiating the existing option of the NH90 or by launching a new acquisition process in the market. The existing option has led to a complaint by the Government to the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, in October 2003. As far as I am aware, the ESA is expected to take a decision on the complaint by the summer of 2004. The Government has so far chosen to await ESA’s assessment before taking a final decision on the procurement strategy. One of the key factors in the choice of procurement strategy is the time of delivery. The existing helicopters, Sea King, are approaching retirement age. It would hardly be cost-effective and perhaps not technically possible to keep these old helicopters in operation for many more years. Between 2008 and 2010 they should have been replaced by new material. This I want to see in the further consideration of the matter. Whatever procedure is chosen for the acquisition, attention will be paid to ensuring that the delivery of the new helicopters is not unduly delayed. With regard to the question of shorter response time, the sun as the first rescue helicopter base will be able to start with bystander in just under 14 days, from about 14 days. 1 June. The other rescue helicopters shall be subsequently extended to the bystander. For the bases operated by the Defence, this requires inter alia: increased manning and structural adjustment, which may take up to two years to get in place. Florø, who becomes a civil rescue helicopter base, will have bystander from day one. I will return to the ordinary budgetary procedure in order to further progress towards the establishment of an accomplice and the establishment of the base in Florø.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e771	In the case of rescue helicopters, three things are important. I have said that before, and I would like to say it again: I am the only person in this room who has been subjected to being picked up by rescue helicopters. The rescue helicopters must have speed, they must have floor space, and they must have range. So that's three things. The Minister of Justice knows this. In the West, it's important that we have rescue helicopters that can get back and forth. Is it included in the assessment when the Ministry of Justice will decide on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e778	In the case of new rescue helicopters, there is a unanimous suspension from the Helicopter Professional Forum, which has assessed all the rescue professional prerequisites for helicopters. ‘Havsel’ was located in the Icelandic rescue area as it encountered problems, far outside the Norwegian area and far beyond the range expected by today’s or future Norwegian rescue helicopters. This means that there is no or is not being prepared to do this, which means that this is a type of task that our rescue helicopters should normally be able to perform. When Norwegian vessels are far from the area of our rescue area, rescue efforts from other countries must be used. There was such cooperation in connection with this ship. Although one is in Norwegian responsibility, one has no guarantee. Also in the future, even with all the bases on bystander, it will sometimes be so that the helicopter can be late. The helicopters we're going to get will also have a limited capacity, so it's defined by the Helicopter Professional Forum's specifications, which are unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e785	The size has decided that we should have sufficient preparedness. It is not right that we have not adapted the building mass, as the Minister of Justice claims. It's done. The medical services are in order, but the Department of Justice and the helicopter pilots are missing a work contract with the Defense. So you don't have a work agreement for that kind of preparedness today. Can the Minister of Justice take an initiative so that the employment contract can be signed by the Defence as an employer?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e790	I'm basing on what I've now said, that in the case of the bystander, which is quite important to reduce the time of the call, the first base, after the information I've received, will be in place on the Sun around 1 June. This has been explained in the context of the revised national budget. In the case of the other bases, and going over to the bystander, they are operated by the Defense, and it requires, among other things, increased manning and structural adaptations, which may take up to two years to put in place. I will come back to these different questions in budgetary terms. Of course, in such a context, I want to make sure that what is going to be operational is operational.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e800	My question was really meant for the Minister of Defence, but I have nothing against it being answered by the Minister of Justice. I understood from yesterday's Focus Programme that the Ministry of Justice wants large parts of the defence budget and the defence tasks. I ask the following question: «The Finnish company Fortum has bid 5,37 billion. kr for the municipality of Oslo in Hafslund. The City Council in Oslo recommends the sale, and the matter is decided in the City Council on 26 May. What does such disposal mean for security of supply in the metropolitan region, for contingency plans, for defence and for social security, in particular if the seller sells parts of or the whole company to interests in several countries?"
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e811	I want to use a few extra seconds with the President's permission, since the representative had an unannounced additional comment in the introduction to his question. It is not that one is managed by media in Norway, it is governed by documents submitted in the Stortinget. It is not the case that the Ministry of Justice wants much of the defence. On the contrary, we have excellent cooperation with the Defence. This is reflected both in the long-term defence plan and in the communication that Stortinget has now received on civil-military cooperation, with clear rules of play and clear guidelines. I felt that it was right to say this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e818	So it's clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e821	Then I go over to answer the question. With regard to the subject matter raised by the representative, the sale is no longer relevant. It has been blown off both by the messenger and by the Municipality of Oslo. But there might be reason to give some principal considerations. Public ownership can be justified on the grounds that economic activities in the market cannot otherwise be resolved, for example: infrastructure tasks, management of important common values, etc. Society today is entirely dependent on a reliable power supply. The government is therefore giving high priority to ensuring the security of energy supply and preparedness in the power sector. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is responsible for regulating the security and security of power supply. This can be seen in Chapter 6 of the Energy Act. Regulations issued by Norway's Watercourse and Energy Directorate impose a number of obligations on all actors in the power supply to ensure adequate preparedness and security. In addition, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, the DSB, in cooperation with the NVE, shall assess whether the maintenance of power lines and electricity lines is satisfactory. As regards security of supply and security of supply in the power supply, there is a legal liability to which every actor must relate, irrespective of ownership. In the light of our experience so far, there is no reason to fear that foreign interests in themselves result in a weakened civil or military preparedness. A power company controlled by foreign interests will have the same requirements to have the necessary personnel and competence available at all times to face exceptional situations. Therefore, good preparedness and security of supply in the power sector are objectives that need to be pursued independently of the ownership structure. In this context, this is also referred to in St.melding. No 39 for 2003-2004, social security and civil-military cooperation, which I referred to instead. Now it is that the issue of infrastructure is particularly important, and it is about vulnerability. Therefore, this issue related to ensuring access to societally critical goods and services is mentioned in the message I referred to. The Government aims to give priority to identifying the instruments that can be used to ensure the national security of vital infrastructure and how vital national interests can be safeguarded when public enterprises are privatised. In my opinion, the representative has, independently of the Hafslund case, pointed to a fundamentally important issue that this Council of State and this government will make sure to undergo properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e838	I am very pleased with the first thing the Minister of Justice said, that there is excellent cooperation between defence and civil protection in Norway, but it is a view that is clearly not shared by the Deputy Commissioner in the Police Directorate. Then it's right that St.meld. No 39, on social security, was presented last Friday. It draws attention to what is called the critical infrastructure of society: power supply, telecommunications and transport. Power supply in the metropolitan region is really critical infrastructure. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice stresses that this is a matter of great importance in principle, regardless of the sale of Hafslund. Now the Christian People's Party has changed — we don't know what they're going to do next when the proposal comes from the current City Council. My view of this is that if Hafslund were to be resold from a possible Finnish company to Russian capital, it might well threaten the social security of the capital region.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e845	A few comments. According to my knowledge, the Police Directorate has excellent cooperation with the Defence Department. I'm not going to go into media programs here, because it could lead to interesting reflections, I think, that maybe the representative and I would also share in retrospect. In terms of principle, I do not go into the Hafslund case either – it is local. It is also the case that, according to my knowledge, the left in Oslo has not been for this sale. That sale is considered locally. I trust that Oslo's politicians will find a structure that is forward-looking and sensible. But regardless of the Hafslund case, I can go into an area that I am at least affected by, for example. Svalbard. If we, for example, should have gone to a total privatization of Great Norske, it could be thought that Great Norske one day ended up owned by a holding in Geneva, owned by another shareholding somewhere else, and that de facto, in such a sale, would have led to the loss of the entire principle control of the Svalbard community, and thus the basis in relation to the Svalbard Treaty and our international obligations. That is why, in the back door of the representative's question, when we step away from both Fortum and Hafslund, there is a problem which is fundamental, and which I will take the initiative to follow up actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e856	I am very pleased with what the Minister of Justice is saying now. Because I think just the principle of critical infrastructure and potential foreign owners is something you have to look at on a principle basis. And once I've concentrated on critical infrastructure in the capital region, it's of course because it means a lot not just to the capital, but to the whole country. I would also like to ask the Council of State about today's preparedness law covers unpredictable situations, where terrorism against infrastructure and the sale of essential social resources can also pose a threat to people's daily security and security – and again: see. what he said about Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e863	We have assumed that the promises we have must be binding. But to be on the safe side at a time when we are still getting new issues and challenges, I will, as I said, make sure that there will be such a review that I outlined in the first answer. There might be questions, like in the example of Svalbard, that are about always having to own enough, to say it that way. There may also be questions about that given that you do not own, what do you do to be absolutely sure that the regulations are good enough? Having this reviewed is quite essential. Outside this hall, former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch raised this issue, and I myself met the issue when I was in the United States right after 2001. It's like a follow-up to the Vulnerability Communication, but also as a follow-up to the big message that the representative now receives in the professional committee in which she sits, that I chose to give the principal signal that I want to look at the infrastructure issues. I don't want to initially have a particular view of property, but I want to see with an open mind on infrastructure issues. Because we have a duty to take vulnerability seriously. Then, of course, I have a deep understanding that the representative is Oslo-patriot and is following up on matters relating to the city's well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e875	I will allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Two publicly-owned commissions have submitted an inquiry into the accident of ‘Evelopment Senior’ and reached two different conclusions. The case has been going on for 26 years and has been a heavy burden for family, relatives and the community. It is necessary that the Council of State intervenes in the matter and that the handling of the case by public authorities be examined. In what way will the Council of State follow up the ‘Development of Seniors’ case, and when will a sentence in the matter be put?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e884	The Investigation Commission, appointed in 2002, following the findings of the main engine of the vessel, issued its report on 20 April this year. The Commission has undertaken a substantial and comprehensive work, which has resulted in a thorough report. The follow-up to the report is a work I prioritise, especially for the sake of the relatives. However, as this could also be extensive and time consuming, I ask for an understanding that it may take some time before this work can be completed. The revised national budget provided preliminary information on the follow-up to the Commission’s report. The Commission informed when it delivered its report that it had not yet received a reply from several foreign authorities as to whether they should be familiar with ships which could have been found in the area at the time of their death. The Ministry of Justice has specifically asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to consult the relevant national authorities on the position of the case. If new information is provided as a result, it will be submitted to the Commission. In any case, I will review the report and its conclusions. I will also ensure that the overall handling of the case by the authorities is reviewed, and, as part of it, also look at the question of any compensation, so that it will be assessed in such a comprehensive manner. Then I will come back to Stortinget. I want to add that I want to do this as quickly as it is sound and possible. That's one thing that's been going on since 1978. I understand that those who have had this close to life feel that this is a great burden. But once it has come to this conclusion that after 2002, we received this thorough report, I will also ensure that what is necessary is done in a proper way. That's what I'm assuming I'll do. And when it comes to progress, there is a work I want to follow closely, so that there should not be any – let me say so – unnecessary delays in the matter, in addition to what is affected by the facts that I have now mentioned in my reply to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e897	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his commitment to the matter. It was such that when the revised budget was presented, there was great disappointment among family, relatives and others who were concerned with the loss of ‘Utvik Senior’. One had hoped that the Council of State would make more concrete promises, promises as to how he wanted to deal with the matter in the future, and take a political responsibility in the matter. As the Council of State said, this case has been in progress for 26 years, and it has been a burden for both relatives and others who have worked with, and driven forward, the case – and they have driven the case ‘on their own keel’. They have been waiting for answers to their innumerable questions. The council said he would give priority to the matter and come back as soon as possible. But I want the Council of State to say something more concrete in relation to the time aspect of this matter, and to say something about the political responsibility of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e906	I have taken political responsibility, and it is already done in the revised national budget. It says something that has not been stated before, but it was printed on 11 May: ‘Further consideration will be given to the overall handling of the case by the authorities.’ In other words, the Ministry of Justice takes responsibility for ensuring that it is done. In this respect, of course, consideration will be given to the question of possible compensation, because it will be linked to the overall assessment. I understand that people who have been waiting since 1978 expect healthy results. But I received the report on 20 April – I think it was then – and it was three weeks before the revised budget was presented. There is nothing within any proper Norwegian procedure that suggests that this would have been possible during that time. What I have signed out here is, first of all, what I think the relatives wanted to know was that the ship was in the right place. They should not live with the notion that they were misnavigating. Secondly, I take responsibility for going through the overall management and in that context to assess the issues of compensation. Then I have taken a responsibility, and I will do this as quickly as I can.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e918	As the Council of State says, two public investigation commissions have been set up, and these have reached two different conclusions on the Development of the Senior Loss. However, there are still many answers missing in the case. I want to challenge the Council of State and wonder if he believes it is time to set up a public investigation commission on the handling of this matter by the Norwegian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e925	What I have said here is that I take responsibility and ensure that the matter is reviewed. When the matter is submitted to Stortinget, Stortinget will be free to assess whether this is good enough or not. But it goes without saying that when we're going to go through the authorities' overall handling, we're going to do it. As regards the case, it has not been concluded by the Commission because of a lack of answers from a number of countries. But the Commission chose to give the answers it had, including: because you were sure what was the cause of the crime — even if you couldn’t identify who. Then it is my duty to remember this information as far as possible, it is my duty to review the report, and it is my duty to look at the overall handling. I take, of course, a political responsibility for this, and the Stortinget will have the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e942	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e948	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘According to Romsdal’s Budstikke, virtually all the landowners involved in the Toven–Gussiås section of the Nesset municipality have complained about the trasé choice of a powerline as a plan to lay close to the settlement. The Countess has set his foot down for a trail to the mountain, as it will affect the protection area. A third option is to place a cable. Soil or sea cable will solve the serious consequences of the first two options. How much will it cost, and can the Council of State expect to go for such a solution-oriented option?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e957	Initially, I would like to remind the representative Jacobsen of my answers to written question No. 505 and No 607 for 2002-2003 and written question No 214 for 2003-2004, where I have already answered a number of questions from the representative on this case and other network investments in More and Romesdal. These answers include: explain the broad guidelines underlying the management's assessments of environmental issues in electricity pipelines. So to the matter in question. On 30 March 2004, the NVE granted SF plant concession under the Energy Act and expropriation permit under the Organising Act to build and operate three power plants in More and Romesdal. The first plant is a 420 kV power line from the Vikland transformer station in the municipality of Sunndal to Istad in the municipality of Molde, where the line is connected with 420 kV power line Istad-Nyhamna. The latter, together with the 420 kV power line Ørskog-Nyhamna, forms part of the supply solution to the land plant of the Worm Lange and together with the Viking Land-Istad, will form a 420 kV ring connection throughout the county. The decision of the NVE may be appealed to the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The Ministry has not yet received the complaint from the NVE. I am aware that there are a number of complaints in the case in question, which the representative Jacobsen also mentions. In line with the rules of the Administrative Act, the NVE shall first assess whether the Directorate will amend its own decision. If the NVE maintains its decision, the matter will be referred to the Department for review. Since the matter is currently under consideration in the NVE, I am asking for an understanding that I cannot prejudge either the NVE's handling of complaints or the ministry's possible handling of a complaint case by going into the matters raised here by the representative Jacobsen. However, if this becomes a complaint case for the Ministry, I can promise that the matter will be dealt with in a thorough and sound manner. In such a case, the Ministry shall meet with the municipalities concerned, the county council, the county council, owners of land, the action holder and other interested parties and carry out thorough inspections. In such cases, the Ministry always carries out a full review of all aspects of the case before final decisions are taken. I can also promise that the Department will assess the need for further investigations of different alternatives in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e970	I thank you for your answer. The reason I have asked many times is that the Council of State knows that I have not received a good enough answer – I think it is myself. I expected that the Council of State itself would mean something and place some political leadership, even if matters were to be dealt with as an appeal. I have also tried to get answers from Minister of Environmental Protection Burnde to questions about the route that may lie in the mountains. I didn't get that. He has refused to respond to this and has sent it over to the Minister of Oil and Energy. What makes me want to do this over and over again are the new tests where the radiation hazard comes up. In a doctoral thesis, it is documented that there is a connection between breast cancer and bowing in the vicinity of a force line. We know that in old rags people are afraid and afraid when they hear these new statements. Then I would like to ask: can the council really think of such new areas of fear – along the huge power line to be built in the Nesset municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e981	First of all, I would like to stress that the Government will of course answer all the questions that come from the Stortinget. And when the Minister for the Environment refers to the Minister for Oil and Energy, it is simply because answering such questions falls within my constitutional responsibility. That's the reason. I would also like to ask for an understanding that I will answer as far as possible, but also ask for respect for the fact that once a case has been filed for the department, I cannot conduct a preliminary procedure in Stortinget until all aspects of the case have been investigated. I am aware that there is a research report that indicates that electromagnetic radiation from high voltage lines can be associated with health damage. But I am also aware that scientists and representatives of the authorities have underlined that further research and documentation is needed to establish that this electromagnetic radiation actually poses a risk to health damage. I therefore assume that further research and documentation is needed to establish this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e988	I thank you again for your answer. We should be aware that here we are talking about a line that is related to the largest industrial expansion in Norway's history, to $66 billion. Now there has become peace around this expansion. That's why I thought it was very important to get an environmentally good arrangement for the supply lines that are going out there. We know that we're crossing the Romsdalsfjord from the West and from Sunnmøre further out, so it'll be quite possible to put a line from Eresfjord and also out technically. So the question is, what will this cost? I believe that if the cable is made in Norway, it will help to create an offensive counter-cyclical policy. In addition, good environmental results will be achieved. We know that down in the densely populated areas, there is a conflict with the inhabitants, with nutritious activities and gardening. In the mountains there will be a clear conflict with the already existing nature conservation area, which is firmly attached. So we have to figure out a solution here. Either a cable in the ground near the congested areas, or a cable in the ground up in the mountains, if any. But then the big question is, can we afford to put a sea cable, which will solve all the problems? Does the Council of State see that there are possibilities in the future for such a good and forward-looking investment as such a sea cable?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e999	I have already promised the representative that I will look at all the alternatives, including those he mentions here. But I will not underestimate that putting such a power line in a cable in soil and in mountains is a significant extra cost. We have to see if there's a good enough reason for such a wiring, and we have to take one thing at a time. It is clear that it is also an interesting task for the Norwegian industry to make cables. I hope that we will be able to contribute in connection with different projects. First, however, it is necessary to determine whether there are significant objections to the trajectory choice chosen by the NVE. First we have to wait for the NVE's own assessment, and then the matter will be dealt with by the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1009	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘NVE has imposed a large investment on Mo Industripark/Fundia in a separate plant in order to reduce losses in the power grid by 1 January 2005 and without any other benefit. Is the Council of State that this is a forward-looking energy and industrial policy, when an alternative investment in pre-heating technology at Fundia’s steelworks will do the same for flickering while reducing the power consumption of Fundia’s steelworks by 20 pst. and contribute to the reduction of mercury emissions through the interconnection with new clean-up technologies.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1018	The Flimmer problem in the Helgeland area began when the furnace of Fundia Arming Steel AS came into operation in 1986. Flickering means that the brightness varies due to fluctuating voltage in the network and may result in poorer stress quality and increased wear on individual components of the power system. The reason for this network pollution is the connection and disconnection of melting furnaces with varying loads. Flimmer reproduces through the network of online customers in surrounding areas. NVE required in 1999 Mo Industripark to install or take other measures which, on a permanent basis, reduce flicker due to the melting furnace of Fundia Industrilingstål AS to an acceptable level. The decision of the NVE was appealed against by Mo Industripark. The Ministry confirmed NVE’s decision. Towards the end of 2000, Mo Industripark took the initiative to test a new operation link in the Helgeland area. Statnet SF initiated the new service link as a test drive to try to reduce the spread of fibrillation. In 2001, the NVE found that the new interconnection did not satisfy the requirements previously established by the NVE and provided that Mo Industripark was to implement measures under the 1999 Decision for permanent damping of flickers. This decision was also appealed by Mo Industripark. The Ministry of Industry confirmed the decision of the NVE on 10 March of this year and gave Mo Industripark a deadline of 1 January 2005 to implement measures for permanent damping of flames. I would like to stress that it is Mo Industripark who is responsible for resolving the problems of flickering in Mo i Rana, either by installing installations or by taking other measures that, on a permanent basis, reduce flickering to an acceptable level. I hope that the representative Vaggen Malvik agrees in principle that whoever carries out the activities that are suitable to cause other problems and pressures beyond what normally have to be expected and accepted is himself the one who has to implement and cost the measures necessary to reduce the damage or disadvantages to an acceptable level. The representative Vaggen Malvik claims that an alternative investment in pre-heating technology at Fundia’s steelworks will do the same for flickering. It remains to be seen. I am aware that Fundia Reinforcement Steel has assessed the pre-heating of steel scrap in the process of finding a clean-up method for mercury. From other steelworks that have implemented this, it is known that the flickering problem from a steel furnace can be reduced by up to 40 pst. relative to cold scrap production. In response to NVE questions on pre-heating, Fundia Reinforcement Steel informed in 2002 that pre-heating scrap will be a crucial project for implementing energy saving measures and will also have a positive impact in several areas, including: flutter. My script contains two more paragraphs. I don't know if the President allows me to complete the answer, or I can merge the rest into later answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1033	It might be a more commendable method.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1036	A flickering system will cost approx. Forty million. kr. It is hardly possible to put it in place by the deadline of 1 January 2005, and it has no other use than to reduce flutter. Fundia has completed the investigation of a scrap iron pre-heating plant. It'll reduce flicks. In addition, it will reduce the power consumption by 60 GWh, i.e. 20 pst., it will reduce environmental emissions, for example. mercury, it will increase the safety of employees in the steelworks, and the project is also fully developed. Will the Council of State take the initiative to postpone the time limit for action against flickering, so that a more forward-looking technology can be used to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1043	Then it's actually very natural that I keep going, because this has to do directly with this project. I am aware that such a project is working on a possible realisation during 2004. I would like to point out that no one has been able to give guarantees to the NVE for when this pre-heating will be realised, and that this will lead to the level of flickering so far being below what is required by the NVE. If pre-heating can solve the flickering problem within the given time limit, the NVE has informed that the directorate has no counter-perception against such a solution being chosen. So it's up to Fundia Arming Steel AS to show that this can be done. A forward-looking energy and industrial policy must also facilitate the proper quality of voltage to all customers in a supply area. So it's up to Mo Industripark as a concessionaire to find a solution to the flickering problem that also takes care of the quality of supply for all power customers in Helgeland and Salten. I would also like to remind the representative that it has now been a very long time since the NVE gave its order to Mo Industripark, which was in fact already in 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1059	Fundia is the second largest enterprise in northern Norway and the largest recovery operation in Norway. In addition, they have imposed a ban on the treatment of mercury by improving the problem of flickering. And they've developed an entirely new technology, which has not yet been tried on a large scale. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State so to understand that if Fundia can demonstrate that they will be able to reduce the problem of flickering through pre-heating technology by 1 January 2005 — I suppose that the Council of State also understands that it is difficult to build a full-scale plant by the deadline set by the Ministry — will the Council of State accept such evidence as is good enough to postpone the deadline for implementing measures by 1 January 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1066	I said in my previous answer that if Mo Industripark can implement measures that are different from those that have been involved so far, and that it can be demonstrated that this will solve the flickering problem, the NVE has no objection to that happening. But I think it is important that someone now implement these measures. I also assume that the representative Mr. Ingvild Vaggen Malvik agrees with me that there is a polluter to pay, and that we should not burden unnecessary other companies and other electricity customers in this area, once so long and different solutions have been tested without one having been successful, and that it has now been possible to reasonably limit the time required for satisfactory decisions to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1077	This question, from the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1080	I allow myself to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘We have heard from the Department, and from the Council itself, that from 2001 until today child care expenditure has increased from 4.5 to 10.8 billion. kr, i.e. more than doubled in 3 years. At the same time, we hear about public and private kindergartens claiming that they are not getting enough money to follow up the Storting decision on the maximum price. Can the Council of State explain how they nearly 6 billion. new and fresh funds have been used?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1089	I allow myself to give the following answers on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: From 2000 to 2001, and not from 2001, as the question arises, and until now, substantial increases in the state resources have been made available in the kindergarten sector. The State grants have been increased by about 90 pst. in private kindergartens and about 70 pst. in the municipalities. Most of the increased resource use is provided as an increased state contribution to the operation of kindergartens. In addition, new kindergartens for nearly 17 000 children have been established during the same period. The biggest increase in the State subsidy came in the autumn of 2003, when the subsidy rates increased by 33 pst. in private kindergartens and 19 pst. in municipal kindergartens. In dollars and cents, this increase meant real growth in government subsidies of DKK 1.8 billion on an annual basis. The increase was given with the clear intention of using the funds to reduce parental pay. This was the main financing of the maximum price by the State. Estimates showed that the increase enabled kindergarten owners to offer parents an average parental benefit of NOK 2 500 per month for a full-time job. Studies carried out show that the parental payment has fallen significantly. The latest SSB’s parental pay survey shows that the average parental pay for a full-time job in January 2004 was less than NOK 2 750 for a family with household income of NOK 375 000. The study carried out by the SSB also shows that private kindergartens were well on the way – the average payment was NOK 2850 for a full-time job. As a result, the increased funds from the State have been mainly used according to their intentions. In 2004, a further 485 million were committed by the State. as a means of discretion to the municipalities. This additional amount of State resources, in addition to the increase in last year's expenditure, will enable all municipalities to ensure the maximum price in all kindergartens, as required by the regulation. As a result, the government has done its part of the job. The above-mentioned parental benefit survey also shows that most kindergartens were already close to the maximum price before 1 May. The uncertainty signaled by municipalities and kindergarten owners can mainly be due to two things. Firstly, the kindergarten agreement requires municipalities to maintain their resources at the current level, i.e. that increased state resources cannot be used to reduce the use of free resources in kindergartens. The State resources have been allocated in this way as a clear premise. The municipalities that have not followed up now believe that they are underfunded. However, these municipalities must in any case make the necessary contributions if they have reduced their own efforts. The State cannot finance the maximum price twice. The second aspect that has created uncertainty is whether private kindergartens are able to cover the income loss that the maximum price for many means. This is the responsibility of the municipality through the equivalent treatment regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1102	I thank you for the answer, which I feel is not entirely reassuring. As the Council of State pointed out, we have municipalities that claim that the reform is not fully financed. There are also a number of private kindergartens who believe that they have not received the money they should have from the municipalities. Some of them have concluded agreements with their parents to maintain the price they have per year. Today, someone says they must close in the summer months, and again others have threatened to wind up. So it has to be plugs in the system that make sure that the money doesn't get to where they're going. Of course, it is possible to blame the municipalities, but I fear that there may also be other things that underlie this. In the ultimate sense, it can lead to the bankruptcy of private kindergartens if they do not get the money they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1107	As I said in my first answer, the state has done its part of the job. Substantial increases in funds have been made in order to meet the maximum price assumption. But there's some uncertainty factors, and I pointed to two of them. Due to the time factor in the implementation of the agreement, many municipalities have not yet reached the target for the calculation of the potential amount of private kindergartens in municipal grants. I can therefore have some understanding that some private kindergartens are hesitating to lower the price until they know exactly what the municipality is spending. In such situations, the municipality, in cooperation with the private owners, must find an appropriate solution at a transitional stage. The most important thing is that the parents do not lose, but are guaranteed a payment within a maximum price from May. The Ministry of Children and Family will follow closely how the regulation on maximum prices is now being followed up in the municipalities. The regulation is also carefully evaluated, and a study is already underway that will provide a first overview of how municipalities and private kindergartens have adapted to their payment system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1114	It's good to hear that you want to follow this up in a proper way. It seems that in many municipalities there are serious problems in calculating what private kindergartens should have. In this context, I would also like to ask what is being done in the Department to assist the municipalities in this context. Have you invested enough human resources in the Ministry to assist municipalities? It may seem as if you do not have the resources and information needed to assist the municipalities in the work they are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1119	Since I am not the constitutionally responsible State Council, I should now be a little careful to analyse reasons. However, I allow myself to suggest that the reason why we have not had a satisfactory situation, and that some kindergartens still have a price above the one expected by the maximum price estimate, is largely due to a lack of follow-up in reducing prices according to the resource supply that the municipalities have actually received. I referred to the considerable funds spent by the State with the approval of Stortinge. Now it is up to the municipalities to implement the measure. It would not be acceptable for what is earmarked and intended for kindergartens, for example, to go to other municipal purposes, no matter how useful and relevant these may be. It is important that the parents do not now get hurt by the local authorities refusing to implement what has been a clear central assumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1129	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: «The Government proposes in St.meld. No 30 to remove compulsory secondary school examinations. [[2003-2004]] The side goal is for 9 out of 10 students neo-Norwegian. The notified proposal will therefore have implications for the target form of its position in Norway. An equalization of the two objectives has been central to Norwegian language policy over the last decades. What position does the Council of State want the new Norway to have in the next few years, and what place should new Norwegian have in the Norwegian school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1138	Nynorsk and Bokmål are two similar target forms in Norway, and St. meld. No 30 does not propose any changes to this. Norway has, and will continue to have, two official writing languages, and students can choose for themselves whether they want to have a new Norwegian or a book destination as their main goal. In addition, following the Government's proposal, training shall continue to be provided in written lateral cases. At the same time, the Government proposes a number of measures to strengthen the Norwegian profession in general, to improve literacy and to strengthen new-seekness, both as a primary objective and as a secondary objective. Many measures are already being implemented and some new measures are presented in the Communication. The proposals must be seen in the light of the challenges facing the Norwegian profession today, and let me mention two: 1st@item: inlistbox A high proportion of students do not acquire sufficient basic literacy skills during 10 years of compulsory schooling. 17-18 pst. students leaving primary school read so poorly that they will be able to have major problems with further education and work. Reading and writing skills are weakest among those who have the main objective of newnorm.2. Today’s side-target training is also problematic, especially for students who have new Norse side-targets. They achieve weaker results than in the main objective, and many students have very negative attitudes to new Norse. On this basis, I believe that it is most important that all students learn to read and write well Norwegian, that is. that it is most important to strengthen the main objective, whether it is a novel or bookcase. Both students who choose new Norwegian as their main goal and students who choose book goals shall receive training to enable them to use the Norwegian language in writing and orally. Since the main objective of the new Norwegian language is used by far fewer than those using the main objective of the book, it is also necessary to introduce specific measures to strengthen the newnorth. I show you, among other things: to propose the creation of a dedicated centre of expertise for new Norwegian in training. There has already been very good experience with similar centres of expertise, such as: the centres for mathematics and science. A dedicated reading centre is also formally created in the near future. The new neo-Norwegian centre for training will help to strengthen new-neurism both as a primary objective and as a secondary objective, be a driving force and incentive for educational innovation and assist schools and school owners to develop in this area. The news is not good enough that the attitudes of the students are so negative or that the training is too poor. The aim of the proposals is therefore to strengthen both the motivation, attitudes and training of new Norwegian. Changes to the examination scheme of a subject, if any, do not impair the requirements and expectations of the students’ competence. Most subjects do not have a compulsory exam in our school, and generally fewer exams are proposed in the notification. This must include, inter alia: is seen in the light of the emergence of other forms of evaluation, including in particular: the national tests and Directory Assessment tests, which provide a better basis for adapting education to individual students and introducing the necessary measures in the course of training.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1160	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no doubt that after the presentation of the notification, there have been many reactions from all over the country, which have gone in both directions. Some have been positive, while others have been negative. The starting point for some of the reactions has been that a fear that this subject will have a reduced status, and that the entire cultural part of the subject will be much less than it has been until now. I feel that the answer given by the Council of State is very clear. She makes it very clear that neo-Norwegian is going to have its rightful place in Norwegian society, and then it kind of doesn't make sense to start with a kind of degradation now by removing the exam. This also breaks with what we have heard in many other contexts, that if it is that competence is too poor, and that we don't manage to perform well enough, it is wrong to remove all kinds of tests. The exam has at least been a good indication, which I have felt Right has been very concerned about earlier. But I interpret the Council of State's answer to that, that she wants the new witch to have his rightful place, and that this will not mean a decline in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1169	Nynorsk is not a subject, it's part of Norwegian. In addition, in particular, it is not the new Norwegian language which is part of the Norwegian language, but the Norwegian language which contains the main objectives and the secondary objectives. Bokmål and Nynorsk are equally important, but in my opinion it is more important that a person acquires sufficient skills in his main goal than in his lateral goal. That's why I think the most important thing you can do for the new Norway is to make sure that those who have it as their main goal are really using it and are happy with it, and that in the future it will also be written ground-breaking literature in new Norse. The reason why we have proposed these things is that it is very clear that training is too poor, very clear that motivation is too weak. Then you have to do something. What we've done is, on the one hand, to put in measures that we think can strengthen training and make it better, and, on the other hand, to remove what may be perceived as discouraging elements of training. I don't hide it: it primarily applies to those who have a new Norse as a side measure. In the case of the examination, as the representative here says, it must be seen in conjunction with the other proposals in the communication. There is a general trend in the notification that we are reducing something on the scope of the exam, because it has developed other better evaluation methods, including among others. in-flight evaluations, enabling timely action to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1178	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. What is said very clearly in the communication and in response to the committee's questions to the Council of State, is that we use the merit of cutting exams to strengthen the subject. There is no doubt that most of the parties in Stortinget will support the need to strengthen the subjects in which we score too poorly. But the question remains: how can we get the learning and competence of this subject? I call it a subject, and I hope the council understands me, and that there won't be a discussion about that. There's a lot of commitment across the country to the new Norway, no matter what the point of view. That's why I hope we can be honest in our approach. When the Council of State says today that she wants to strengthen the curiosity and raise the level of this subject, because we are too bad at it, I also hope that we will follow this up in a constructive way in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1189	It is possible that this is at the limit of a personal opinion, but if we are to take care of the newnorm, I certainly believe that it is those who have a new Norse as their main goal, who have to do the brother part of the work, in the sense that it has the assumption that it is the students who have a new sense of purpose and not as side goals, such as. will write literature in the future in new Norse and keep that language alive. But it's absolutely right that we need to get the learning up, as the representative here says. The problem is that we have little knowledge and research to stick to. That is why we are opening up too much experimentation, research and follow-up research, to learn more about how to stimulate and improve training in new Norse. So far, the debate has been marked by the fact that we have been sitting in each of our ditches and claiming things, without really having sufficient basis to mean anything. The problem here is a little bit special. Nynorsk is not a foreign language, it is part of the Norwegian language, but it is a language that is so similar to our own native language – to say it this way, for us who speak book goals – that we understand it perfectly. There is another type of problem in language training, other than for example: when we talk about foreign language training.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1198	We're now going back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1205	This question, from the representative of Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1208	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘According to information provided by the State Health Authority, there is a worrying lack of preparation of individual plans related to the treatment chain within the mental health system. Inadequate plans appear to be in place within almost all stages of the treatment and follow-up chain. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the preparation of individual plans is taken seriously?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1217	Regulation on individual plans entered into force on 1 July 2002. Individual plans are an important cooperation tool to ensure that people in need of long-term and coordinated services receive a comprehensive and customised service provision. However, reports and feedback have shown that work on individual plans for just people with mental illness has not yet started well enough. This was the background to the government’s warning of the need for further intensification of efforts in this area in the context of the 2004 budget. As a direct consequence, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has entered into cooperation with SINTEF Health and the State Knowledge and Development Centre for Whole Rehabilitation — referred to as SKUR — on a two-year project on individual plans. The cooperation project will take the form of plans for the introduction of planning tools for individual plans for people with mental disorders. The project will establish and train a network of contact persons in each state, where specialist health services, municipal health and social services and users participate as equivalent partners. Furthermore, local guidance and consultation with both municipalities and health businesses shall be provided through the project. The aim of the project is that the networks of the Member States are established and have started their activities in the current year. It is a clear objective that several municipalities and health businesses should be involved in individual plans for people with mental illness during this year. The final objective of the project is for all municipalities and health enterprises to carry out this work during 2005. Regional health enterprises are required in the 2004 governance document to ensure that the obligation to draw up individual plans for patients with chronic and complex disorders is met. This work shall be carried out in cooperation with the municipalities. Dedicated for 2004, the importance of interaction between municipalities and the specialist healthcare service is clarified and individual plans are drawn up for those in need of coordinated and long-term services. In the 2004 mandate, the country's county councillors were asked to provide advice and guidance, in particular to disseminate knowledge and experience and to follow up on the work of municipalities to implement the regulation on individual plans. As I mentioned at the outset, individual plans are an important cooperation tool to ensure a comprehensive and customised service provision for people in need of coordinated services. Feedback on poor implementation of this work in municipalities and health businesses is taken seriously. In a letter to the Social and Health Directorate of 3 May of this year, the Ministry of Health therefore asked for a summary and status report on how far this work has now come in municipalities and health businesses. The Ministry will follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1234	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. But I can't be quite satisfied with the pace at which we set up the actual implementation of how we're going to get the most possible municipalities to follow up what they actually need to draw up individual plans, because it turns out to a very large extent that it's the first step to develop the plans, and that it's not being followed up enough. I am also aware that a municipal counsellor has been developed for the preparation of individual plans. But it obviously doesn't work. In its reply, the Council of State stated that the aim is for several municipalities to have this in place during the year, and all during 2005. As far as I know, it is already legal that individual plans should be drawn up. My question to the Council of State is this: Does the Council of State not think it is passive when the objective is not to comply with the law in all municipalities until 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1243	As the representative points out, it is the first instance, irrespective of the address, that is obliged to take the first initiative to develop and implement such an individual plan. But with regard to the follow-up, especially with regard to health, as this issue concerns, we have seen that it has varied greatly how this has been implemented in the municipality of Norway. This is why the Ministry and the Minister of Health have also been very offensive in view of the fact that this is going to take place. It is included both in the governance document of health enterprises, a separate project is established in relation to SINTEF Health and the municipalities, a timetable has been set in relation to when it is to be established and it has been included in the declarant. In addition, the county officials are also assigned to accompany them. I should have liked to see that this was in place right away, and that you could say, "Now the law applies." That's how we know it's not. It takes time to set up processes to get this on track, but with the race that has now been compared to all those involved to get it in place, I have good hopes that the goal will be achieved in several municipalities in 2004 and that everyone will have it in place in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1250	I thank the Council once again for the answer. But I must say once again that I think you have an attitude that is not offensive enough. Of course, I respect the fact that it takes time. But I wish you had a goal that was a little more offensive than just ‘in 2005’. The reason is very simple, because this very often applies to people with complex needs. It may be drug users who have both drug problems and mental problems. And there are a number of other complex disorders in which it is very important to focus on the whole treatment chain, so that the patient can get help to deal with their problems as quickly as possible. It is therefore important that the plans are drawn up. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State now at least ensure that the guides already developed are well known and that further follow-up to the municipalities is also ensured?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1259	All of these measures that we have been about here are being or are being implemented. This with supervisors is also an important measure in this way. And it is precisely on the basis of a recognition that there has not yet been a good enough start, that this offensive position has been adopted by the Department. I fully agree with the representative. Of course, it must be that in the schooling that very many do to the municipalities, the supervisor must also be part of the picture. I would like to emphasise: especially in relation to people with mental illness, which was the starting point for the representative’s questions, there is a distinction in the regulatory framework with regard to individual plans, namely that everyone has the right to draw up individual plans, but for what goes on with heavy mental health protection, this also applies regardless of the patient’s consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1268	So we go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1274	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘A unanimous local authority in Ås wants the planned outlet of the Vinmonopolet in the municipality to be added to the municipality centre. The wine monopoly, on the other hand, believes that the sale should be at one of Steen & Stroem’s purchasing centres. A relief coil solution in the municipality centre is rejected by the Vinmonopolet despite the fact that both poles will be profitable. What will the Council of State do to ensure that local elected representatives are given the last word with regard to the location of Poles?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1283	It is already well anchored in the Alcohol Act that local elected representatives should have a decisive influence on the design of the local government's funding policy, including the location of outlets and outlets. The wine monopoly is a sales outlet. However, in the context of the revision of the Alcohol Act, presented in June, I propose to clarify in the law that municipalities have the right to focus on the same wide range of aspects in the context of the approval of the location of polishing sales, as otherwise in the examination of applications for sales and donation in the municipality. In my view, it is quite obvious that the monopoly of wine in this context is, and must be, subject to the same conditions as all the others who are applying for authorization to sell alcoholic beverages. A wine monopoly sale attracts people, and it can lead to a change in people's patterns of action. There may again be considerable consequences for the other traders and for the whole structure of the municipality's trading centres. From possible parking problems, a large part of the trade may be transferred to a shopping centre outside the municipality centre, as a direct result of the establishment of a wine monopoly. The municipality knows the conditions best and has a legitimate interest in and responsibility for facilitating an optimal location structure. The Alcohol Act specifies a clear division of tasks between the Ministry of Social Affairs, the municipalities and the Vinmonopolet in terms of localisation issues. While the Ministry may determine the maximum number of sales on a national basis and a regional distribution of sales, it is up to the Municipal Council to determine the maximum number of sales in the municipality and to approve their location. There has been a broad consensus in the Biggest on this division of tasks. The assessment of the concrete location of the wine monopoly sales in the municipalities has always been a matter between the individual municipality and the Vinmonopolet. Within the flexible and, in my opinion, good and sufficient frameworks provided by the Alcohol Code, it is therefore the responsibility of the parties to balance the different considerations and to strike the right balance between business-friendly operation and appropriate localisation in the municipality. In the vast majority of cases where the municipality and the wine monopoly initially have different views on where sales should be located, the parties succeed in reaching agreement on solutions that both can live well with. Only exceptional situations arise where the municipality and the Vinmonopolet are unable to agree on the location and where the municipality's alternative is not claimed to be economically profitable for the Vinmonopolet, as is the case now in Ås. On this basis, I asked the Vinmonopolet for an explanation of the assessments the company has based on in this case. However, the municipality of Å and the wine monopoly together are responsible for finding a good solution for both parties within the framework of the alcohol law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1298	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that she has contacted the Vinmonopolet, and that she also showed a great understanding of the matter. However, the question is, Who is to decide when it comes to the piece? We are in the special situation in Ås that a unanimous local authority believes that the sales point should be in the municipality centre. The wine monopoly says they want the point of sale at a mall, and it's a real conflict of interest. So it's interesting that despite the fact that the wine monopoly wants to have a pole in Ås, they say, "If we don't get it where we want it, there won't be a pole in Ås!" It puts the matter in relief, and it emphasizes that here it is to the seventh and last a question about who has the final word. I would then like to challenge the Council of State a little bit more in relation to whether she believes that it is the City Council that will have the final word, or whether she believes that it is the Vinmonopolet that will be able to sit with a veto right. Does the Council of State wish to do anything about that relationship, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1307	The distribution of labour is governed by the Act on Alcohol. It gives a clear division of tasks between what is the job of the Ministry of Social Affairs, what is the responsibility of the municipalities, and what is the responsibility of the monopoly of wine, especially in terms of localization issues. The Ministry is responsible for taking account of the highest number of sales on a national basis and also for a regional distribution of sales. It is the municipalities that are responsible for deciding whether or not to have a pole, and then to apply for a wine monopoly. It is up to each municipality to decide. It is not politically governed where and in which municipalities the pole is to establish itself. Of course, municipalities can decide whether they want a pole, but they also have to recognise where it should be. In most cases, a solution is found between the municipality and the Vinmonopolet. I do not want to go further into the specific matter now, all the time I have asked for a statement from the Vinmonopolet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1316	I understand that the Council of State cannot go into the specific matter, but this is also a fundamental question. We're in the situation in Ås municipality that we don't get a pole if we don't do what the Vinmonopolet wants us to do. I have to say that I think this is a democratic problem, because here the alcohol law says that it is the municipal government that has to take the seventh and last decision on location. But here you're going to be forced to do something other than the primary desire of the local government if you're going to get a pole at all. I think it is a democratic problem and I wonder if the Council of State agrees. I also wonder whether the Council of State believes that the handling of this case by the Vinmonopolet is in line with the letter of the law. And does she mean that it is in harmony with the spirit of the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1323	The last question I will wait to answer, simply because I have asked the Vinmonopolet for an explanation. I do not intend to draw conclusions until such a statement is made. As far as the distribution of responsibilities is concerned, there has been a broad consensus in the Storting on the division of tasks under the Alcohol Act. Without this being linked to the specific municipality that the representative Haga is now talking about, it is the municipality that is applying for a pole, and it is the municipality that approves the location. But it's also a task for the Vinmonopolet to assess the profitability, so that you don't in a way get the establishment of a wine monopoly that shows red numbers, and that's how it becomes subsidizing. But this is an assessment that the Vinmonopole itself has to make. The starting point is that you come to an agreement in almost all cases, but I'm waiting for a statement from the Wine Monopoly. I also understand that this is within the responsibility of the alcohol law, that it is up to the individual municipality and the wine monopoly together to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1336	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘At the Stange Zentrum there is a dangerous level crossing with which something needs to be done. The matter has been going on for many years. The railway works have a sketch of a so-called phase plan for the remediation of level crossings. At the request of Stange Municipality, the Railway Agency replied that there is no money to secure the level crossing. What will the Council of State do to ensure the level crossing in Stage before a serious accident occurs there?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1345	The level crossing in Stage is secured with automatic toll systems. The railway system prioritises measures on transitions which maximise the improvement of safety in relation to the required resources. Therefore, at first priority is not given to level crossings secured by bombs and/or lighting installations, as these are considered to be traffic safer than unsecured level crossings. The Storting has also given particular attention on several occasions to the priority of improving the unsecured transitions. However, I can inform you that the Railway Agency is now planning to hold a meeting with Stange Municipality in the near future, to discuss the situation at Stange and to look at the possibilities of implementing measures to further improve safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1354	I say a thousand thanks for the answer. I am aware that this level crossing may seem to be secured well enough. It's just that this isn't a level crossing in a quiet place, it's actually in the Stange center, and it passes a few thousand people there every day. There are many children crossing the level crossing. Students from both Ståge School, Ståge Secondary School and Ståge Secondary School have the transition as a school route. This is what worries me. In addition, I can mention that the Stangehallen and the new sports park also require people to pass the level crossing. I'm glad that a meeting is now being initiated, and I have a great understanding that one must start with the worst first, but I ask the Council of State to also assess the human side of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1365	I believe the representative Fallet and I agree that it is important to take care of the safety and experience of those who live near such level crossings. We have per cent. today 4,500 level crossings here in the country. We've been concerned about, and it's in agreement with the Storting, prioritizing the level crossings that are the worst secured, and that can have the greatest impact on accidents. As has been the case so far, this level crossing has been considered there – although there is a lot of traffic both on foot and on trains – that as long as it is an automatic toll facility, it takes care of a certain part of the safety, but it can get better, and it is therefore important with the dialogue between the municipality and the railway station.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1372	As I said, I am pleased that this very meeting has been initiated. I would like to repeat that the Storting also has a responsibility here in relation to the allocation of funds. We must take joint responsibility for that. But when you evaluate the danger, I'm very concerned that this actually also works as a school road. That's what worries me. Larger children can certainly manage to respect light and bomb, but we know that small children, who actually also pass there, really don't have the same respect for level crossings with bombs. I hope there's room for an assessment where it's also taken into account that this is actually a school path.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1377	I have a great deal of understanding of the desire to ensure this level crossing as far as possible. I myself want our entire traffic picture to be as secure as possible. But we are also totally dependent on everyone who travels in traffic, whether children or adults, being trained to respect both bombs, lights and traffic rules in general. There are probably a lot of kids in this country who have to get into a traffic image that's quite challenging. We probably have to keep living with it that we have to teach our children the traffic rules that we have and that we have to respect all of them. It also applies to signals given in relation to hazards. I will, of course, take with me the wish that the representative has presented here, so that the Railway Agency can take this with me in the meeting with the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1396	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1403	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘There is a strong need for an increase in the frequency of the ferry service between Tau and Stavanger. This connection is ranked as No. 3 in the country for the transport of commuters, and as no. 15 for passenger car units. Companies both in Ryfylke and in Nord-Jären have high additional costs as a result of undue waiting time. Will the Council of State take initiatives to ensure greater regularity than today in the Tau Association?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1412	Catamaranferja ‘Stavanger’ was put on route on Row 13 between Stavanger and Tau on 1 June 2003. MF ‘Stavanger’, which takes 110 passenger car units, replaced MF ‘Tau’ and MF ‘Utstein’, which take 75 and 55 corresponding passenger car units respectively. MF «Stavanger» has a service speed of 22 knots, while the other ferries run with 12 knots. After MF ‘Stavanger’ has been inserted into the route, car capacity over 24 hours is increased in relation to the previous 3-ferry solution. Apart from the weekend traffic on Friday afternoon and Sunday evening, there are small problems with the remaining cars. This despite traffic having increased. With two ferries in the connection, one with a service speed of 22 knots and the other 12 knots, it is a challenge to get to a timetable that does not ‘hold’ too much. It is registered that travellers prefer to travel by fast ferry and that ‘old-age leave’ sometimes has to be provided with free capacity. It was as a prerequisite for the construction of the new ferry that it would replace two of the ferries that were then connected. The frequency is now 24 laps per hour. day(s) The connection complies with this applicable standard requirement for the high-margin national road ferry operation. This indicates that this connection shall have a minimum frequency of 18 round trips per. day(s) Statistics up to and including March 2004 show 1 pst. the remaining vehicle. The default requirement for this type of connection is a maximum of 2 pst. the remaining vehicle. Prosperity for national road ferries users is a high priority. There has been high growth in the budget for this purpose in recent years. The state road transport services are working to improve the efficiency of national road transport operations, including: in the case of an extension of the use of a competitive concession. The benefits of this work could be used to improve the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1425	The Council of State refers to the concept of ‘standard’. I understand that it has to do with the capacity, whether it is carried over or below 1500 passenger car units. Is this a political decision? Is there a room for discretion? I'm asking because the 14 connections, which carry more passenger car units than the Tau connection, all have between 30 and 54 departures, with an average of 36. I also have to ask the government if it thinks there is a significant difference between the Tau connection, which carries 1,450 passenger car units, and the connection where the number might be between 600 and 700. Does it seem reasonable for such relationships to be treated equally? I then ask for consideration both for commuters and business in an area where there is a desire for growth and not a decline in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1432	It is quite important that, within any limited budget, including within this sector, we try to find out what will enable us to get the best solutions to the individual routes. What we're talking about here is an increase in the capacity of these ferries that makes the capacity altogether considered to be reasonably good. When we talk about standards, it's in that we have to have a limit on when to put in additional capacity. What should be the limit to what we will accept in our welfare society? Once we set a limit of 2 pst. Remaining cars, there is a low limit. When we record that the numbers so far show 1 pst., I think there are numbers that can be accepted within this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1437	“Really good” – I think it’s just the council that thinks the capacity is reasonably good in this connection. I haven't met anyone else who thinks so. I follow the situation closely and with increasing anxiety. I listen to individuals and businesses that are established on the Ryfylke site, and I hear on their alarming assessments whether they should have Ryfylke as their starting point for the future. Let me remind you: the frequency has decreased – the frequency is significantly below the frequency in relation to which you can compare – while the traffic has increased. It's competition morning and afternoon to bring the ferry. There are 1 hour and 20 minutes between departures in the evening, and the same is true for some departures in the middle of the day. The number of truck spaces has decreased, from 15 to 11 places per. two hours. I ask the Council of State: can she imagine taking a trip to Rogaland to get some more insight into the importance of increasing the frequency of the Tau connection if possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1442	I come from a part of the country where we are very used to travelling both by boat and ferry. I know that we're totally dependent on good relations, and I'm assuming that one is also here. I'm based on the numbers and the censuses that I have. It is possible that the representative Kleppa has different numbers and different censuses than what I have. In fact, the capacity of these ferries has increased. It's true that the frequency has been slightly reduced, but the capacity has, as I said, increased. When travellers choose to stand above ‘old leave’ to travel with the new one, it is because they prefer it and you choose not to use the first departure. We will closely monitor developments here, if there is a need to implement further measures, but we do not see that per. today. Obviously, if you choose one mode of transport, one ferry over another, that's a choice you make. If you're at risk of being left behind, that's also a choice you make. I am concerned that you should have good solutions, and that is what I believe we have here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1447	Question no. 16 have already been treated. That being the case, it is no. 1 processed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-19.ana.ud2283e1458	There is no record.
