ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e28	The representative of John I. Alvheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e31	On behalf of the representative Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I propose that the Health Directorate should be given the approval authority of the crew plans at the hospital and in the home hospital, so that the treatment and care of sick elderly people is ensured a professionally sound level of staff, regardless of their place of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e36	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e39	On behalf of the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Thore A. Nistad, Per Roar Bredvold, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Øyvind Waksdal and myself, I propose that permission for the use of snowmobiles in special loops be made general, and that the authority granted by law be transferred from the county to the individual municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e44	The representative of Inga Marte Thorkildsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e47	On behalf of the representatives of May Hansen, Heikki Holmås and myself, I propose measures to provide victims for incest.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e52	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e74	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson State Council Einar Steensnæs State Council Kristin Krohn Devold The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main question, from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e93	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The government has repeatedly stated that it wants to increase the use of gas in Norway. But despite these beautiful words, last year we experienced the government entering into an agreement with the Socialist Left to postpone this development. Again, the Government showed its total lack of power in energy matters. In the fall we were told that the government would come to Stortinget with a follow-up to this gas message before Easter. But this is now postponed until June, which means that a decision in Stortinget can only be made next winter. Once again, we are experiencing a decision-repudiation and paralysis on the part of the Government, which has gradually become a pattern. Will the Council of State explain why it is so important for the Government to prevent the Norwegian people and the Norwegian business community from having ample access to energy at reasonable prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e104	This government has taken the initiative of a number of important measures to increase domestic use of gas. When the government presented its gas report last year, I found that the government in most areas had broad support for its strategy. That strategy did not join the Progress Party. I have explained on several occasions both the Progress Party and the representative, Mr Vaksdal, what is in the Government's strategy, among other things. the desire to build more gas power stations with CO2 management and the Government is in favour of allowing the three concessions granted for conventional gas power stations on both Forest, Kårstø and Kollsnes to go, so that it is up to the owners whether or not to build these gas power stations. The owners have so far found that the gas price in relation to the prices in the power market is such that it would not be profitable to build these gas power stations. I have also agreed with the Labour Party in last year's budgetary conciliation negotiations that a new big message should be submitted to follow up more concretely, among others. a programme of grants to pilot plants. This Communication will be followed up in spring 2004, as foreseen. This is an extensive work, including: NVE has several tasks in order to assess costs and technical solutions and other important clarifications that can provide a decision-making basis for the Stortinge to assess the various proposals. So this message comes in the spring of 2004, exactly as the Stortinge has suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e113	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which basically underlined the lack of strategy of the Government in this area. In the ordinary questionnaire a week ago, I confronted the Council of State with his follow-up to the Storting's decision in various energy areas, which he obviously did not like. He called this "sudden" and "untimely" accusations. When I asked questions about the follow-up by the Government to the Stortinget decision of 9 March 2000, that Norwegian gas power plants should be subject to the same framework conditions as others in the EEA area, I received the following answer: ‘This Council of State follows on to the point and points all the decisions of the Grand Duchy chosen in 2001’.» I'm somewhat amazed at this. If this means that the Council of State will only follow the decisions taken after this time, it is very serious in this case. Or will the Council of State here and now confirm that he intends to follow the decisions of big business in any case, and whether or not he likes them?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e125	This is very easy to answer, because the government of course follows all the decisions that a big deal has made. However, if a new increase takes new decisions and sets other timetables and progress plans, it will also determine the government's own proposals. I have repeatedly pointed out to the Stortinget and to the representative of Øyvind Waksdal that the Government of course follows the decision of the Storting. Then I think it is bad that the representative Vaksdal repeatedly comes back and claims the opposite. I would urge the representative, Mr Vaksdal, to identify concrete issues in which the Council of State and the Government do not follow up decisions on the basis. In these matters for which I am responsible, which concerns the follow-up of gas power plants, which relate to the follow-up of increased use of gas in Norway, I have, to the point and point, followed up on all points what the Storting has adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e132	There will be follow-up questions – Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e135	The energy research environment in Trondheim is at the forefront of the development of technology for CO2-free gas power plants. What they're saying is that such a solution lies approximately. 10 years in advance if this is also to be commercially possible with regard to the price of the power market. So when State Council Steensnæs and others use expressions like "old-fashioned technology" about the technology that exists today, which is the best on the market, it's about today's technology. The Labour Party has constantly called for Norway to build gas power plants within the framework of our climate commitments. How many gas power plants can be built in Norway such a situation is now, in the next years, without it happening outside our climate commitments? Then I am talking about the technology that exists today, and not about the future technology that others are talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e142	The government is taking seriously the ability to combine important considerations of energy supply and security of supply with the international commitments we have taken on in terms of the environment and climate. We believe that this can be done in a proper way by the Government spending considerable resources on developing technologies that can generate gas power plants with CO2 management. It explains the government's strategy and willingness to bet. We have agreed to co-finance both a substantial part of a pilot plant for gas power plants and to co-finance the additional costs that a full scale gas power plant will entail. If one is now putting this strategy aside and only wants to invest in conventional gas power plants, it is obvious that it will not be compatible with our international obligations – that is, contrary to what the Storting has also adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e150	Rolf Terje Klungland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e153	Norway as a welfare nation is built up because our ancestors used and have used the natural resources that we have had. Norway has approx. 40 pst. of gas resources in Western Europe and 1 pst. by the population. Land around us is now going to use the gas to meet its environmental obligations. Countries around us will actually subsidize Norwegian gas in relation to alternative energy sources. But in Norway, we have a government and a state council that only speaks well, and has not come to any action. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Why is there this labre interest in the Government? Is it related to the Bondevik I government choosing to leave because they would not build gas power plants, which has led to an increase in CO2 emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e160	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party was with the Government on this year's budget, where among other things. Significant attention was paid to gas power stations with CO2 handling. Just in the light of the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party, the Ministry of Oil and Energy is now working with its own big business message, which will follow up more concretely the big business message presented by the Government last year. It is a responsible effort to ensure security of supply, while this strategy allows us to meet the international climate commitments we have entered into. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has supported this – also widely – in the case of the Storing Message. I assume that the representative Rolf Terje Klungland is also part of the consensus behind the budgetary agreement. We work purposefully to realize these gas power plants. I think it's very interesting that we now also get an international initiative here, which makes it more realistic for us to see that this can be realized within a reasonable timescale, preferably before 2010. But this depends on how technology evolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e167	Ingvild Vaggen Malvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e170	The representative of Vaksdal highlighted in an excellent way the gas settlement made by the government parties with SV last year on a responsible energy policy and a responsible investigation into domestic gas use in Norway. But at the same time, in connection with that gas communication, there was also a unanimous committee in favour of Norwegian accession to the EU renewable directive. All members of the committee took part in the vote. It is a directive – now I am not initially very much in line with EU directives, but it happens that flowers also grow on dung – which is aimed at increasing the share of renewable electricity production. I would like the Council of State to tell us about the status of the negotiations with the EU, and when we can get a Norwegian vote in favour of this directive, which we have repeatedly called for on the table in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e177	I would like to confirm that the Government is in favour of implementing the renewable directive in Norwegian legislation and that Norway is joining this directive. However, Norway is in a completely unique situation with regard to renewable electricity compared to all other EU countries. It's because of our environmentally friendly hydropower, which already makes 99 pst. of our electricity is produced by hydropower. It also makes us particularly need to adapt to the renewable directive. We are in dialogue with the European Union on this. I have hope that we will get a positive result. I cannot say anything more about the timetable and the progress plan. But I can assure you that this is a directive which, in its device, intention and purpose, is entirely in line with what the Government wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e182	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e185	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. According to an NTB message yesterday, which is reproduced in the Evening Post, claimed, among others. Russia’s defence minister last weekend in Munich that the NATO leadership in Afghanistan secures loyalty from the warlords and other Afghan leaders by allowing drug trafficking. The article refers to the explosion of opium production in Afghanistan since the Taliban regime was overthrown. The UN estimates that last year 3600 tonnes of opium were produced in Afghanistan, an increase of 6 pst. from the previous year. This was two-thirds of all opium in the world. There is talk of drugs worth NOK 16 billion. I would like to ask the Council of State whether it is right that the ISAF forces and, for that matter, the other forces in Afghanistan also look through the fingers of the drug trade, which then leads to a sharp increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e194	Let me first say that I share the concerns of the representative Marit Nybakk related to opium production and drug exports from Afghanistan. There's no new problem. Afghanistan has been the largest exporter of opium products for many, many years, even when I was in charge of the Justice Committee. This problem only shows that the situation in Afghanistan needs to be addressed in a number of areas and in far more areas than that of the military. If we are to get rid of opium production in Afghanistan, we need to do this by giving the farmers in Afghanistan something else to feed on, with alternative development, alternative activities. We need to cooperate with those who run civil institution building, with the police and the judiciary. We need to cooperate with the legal authorities of Afghanistan, President Karzai and his government, and give them the opportunity to put power behind their regime also in the districts. And then, of course, we have to provide security in the regions through military operations. NATO must act on the mandate of NATO. ISAF must act on the mandate of ISAF. And it's been primarily security and stabilisation. But the reason that both Kofi Annan and President Karzai have been so concerned about getting NATO and ISAF to engage outside Kabul is precisely the need to create a security situation in the regions that enables national authorities to exercise effective national control over the regions. That is why I think the best way to use NATO today is to move ahead with the development of the PRTs – the Provincial Reconstruction Team – that now SACEUR has a plan for last weekend in Munich, and that Norway is willing to take its share of responsibility, so that it is safe enough in each region to defeat criminal behaviour and unwanted behaviour, including drug exports and production.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e201	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I share far on the way to what she says. Norway is now participating in the stabilisation force in ISAF, and that is where we are going to concentrate in Afghanistan. It's as we know now a NATO-led force. As a result, Norway also has a joint responsibility to contribute to the efforts of the Afghan authorities to deal with drug traffic. And remember, this is also a security problem for neighbouring countries, i.e. the Central Asian countries, among others. Uzbekistan, taking into account the north-west route through Uzbekistan. The British Council of State Bill Rammel said at an expert conference this weekend that if this problem is not resolved, there will never be a safe and sustainable future in Afghanistan. I would therefore also encourage the Council of State that the Norwegian Government is even more committed to this very difficult issue, but a question that needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e208	Here there is no doubt that my commitment is strong. Especially connected to the previous job I had in Stortinget, as head of the Justice Committee, I see the close relationship between drug production and drug exports and military unrest and the lack of stabilisation. It is no coincidence that two of the areas in which Norway has had the largest military presence, Kosovo and Afghanistan, are also the areas that are struggling to be involved in drug crimes. That is why it is so important, as I stressed, that there is close cooperation both on the aid side, on the military side and on civil institution building. I also know that this dialogue with the Central Asian countries will be one of the points that will be discussed at the NATO summit in Istanbul at the end of June. And the cooperation that NATO has launched in the EAPC, where we have now included countries like Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, etc. in the work of NATO in the region, we also have opportunities to obtain results in the field of drug traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e216	There will be follow-up questions – Rita Tveiten.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e219	I have a follow-up question to the Minister for Development. The majority has supported Afghanistan as a new co-operation country for Norway, and Norwegian emphasis has been placed on this with the development of living conditions, the development of democratic institutions and the security of women’s situation. In this context, it is important that there is good cooperation and a good interplay between the fields of interest of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Development. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Development what kind of industrial policy measures can be implemented by the Norwegian side in this cooperation in order to allow farmers in Afghanistan to find ways of feeding other than the cultivation of opium poppy and, where appropriate, to do something with Norwegian import rules to facilitate access to legal goods from Afghanistan to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e228	This is a very important question, and there is no doubt that we are following this closely from the Norwegian side. Drug production and its explosive increase have been the main theme, an important theme, in my talks in Afghanistan last autumn, in September, both with actors on the UN side and not least with Afghan authorities. We believe, as the Minister of Defence says, that it is very important to have an overall approach to this as addressing – to put it that way – both the side of action, the side of control and what goes on the situation of farmers, ensuring their outcome. In addition, the pay for opium production is so much higher that aid projects are even affected, in the sense that wages are so low that opium is produced. So we have to have an overall approach to this. Whether or not we are to be part of an agricultural development programme in Afghanistan on the Norwegian side is not given because we have a division of labour between donors. It is primarily the British Ministry of Development, the DFID, which has the primary responsibility and is so-called the leading donor in this area. [[The President clubs.]] We are now cooperating with them and with other donors on how we can ensure that action is taken on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e237	The President must sometimes remember the speaking time. Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e242	This follow-up question goes to the Minister of Defence. In order to be able to expand ISAF in Afghanistan, there is a per cent Today, depending on allying with local warlords. Is the tacit acceptance of opium production a prerequisite for extending ISAF to a larger area in Afghanistan, and does the Council consider the fight against drugs in Afghanistan to be a task for NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e249	NATO’s efforts to expand ISAF outside Kabul are not tacitly accepted by drug production, and it does not require cooperation with drug producers. NATO is expanding outside Kabul following a strong call from Kofi Annan on behalf of the United Nations – a separate UN decision that was passed on to the Colorado Springs Defence Minister’s meeting in October – and we are expanding outside Kabul following a strong call from President Karzai. The reason why President Karzai and Kofi Annan want us to do this is that the legal authorities in the country should have an increased opportunity to exercise legal control. It also means combating drug crime. This is not a problem NATO can solve alone. What is NATO's task in Afghanistan is described in the mandate given by the UN to the ISAF forces, because it is the mandate upon which NATO is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e254	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e257	I would like to ask Mr. Frafjord Johnson a question. Israel builds on occupied land a wall condemned by a whole world, condemned by the United Nations and also condemned by Norway, a wall that it is very difficult to see having a reason, at least from a Norwegian standpoint. I understand that the Minister for Development has been on a visit to Israel in the occupied areas and also at the wall and has had a strong experience associated with it. It is clear that it is very easy to see the hopelessness of the Palestinian children's eyes standing in front of this great wall, which is actually a wall of shame, a wall that underlines the almost apartheid-like system that unfortunately has become in Israel. My question to the Minister for Development is: How does she imagine that we can help Israel to comply with international law on the part of Norway? This is condemned by the United Nations. How can Norway either help or in any other way allow Israel to tear down the wall that a whole world is asking Israel to tear down?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e266	To the representative's briefing, I was only with the Palestinian self-government authorities, and not on the Israeli side or had conversations with the Israeli authorities. It was primarily a developmental visit, focusing on the consequences of today’s critical situation for the Palestinian people and for the authorities. There is no doubt that the situation is both critical and partly dramatic in several places. The government's position on the wall, to which the representative also referred, is clear: it is contrary to international law. Israel is not acting in accordance with the UN's unequivocal demands to reverse the construction of the wall. There is no doubt that this not only has consequences for the Palestinians, but it also makes a fragile negotiation process difficult with a view to a two-state solution. If I had had a good answer to the representative's question, I would have given it to him. Now a wall is being built, and a whole world in the United Nations context, 144 states, I think it was, has clearly said that it is contrary to international law. We see and regret that Israel is not acting in accordance with this clear demand to reverse construction, but how we are going to help Israel act in line with UN resolutions is very difficult for me to respond to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e275	I thank you for the answer and thank you for the unique position expressed here by the Norwegian Government, namely that this wall is in violation of international law and that Norway supports the UN decision. It is therefore with great wonder that we have registered – because the UN General Assembly has asked for this case to be brought before the Court of Justice in The Hague – that Norway, together with 33 other nations, the United States and the United Kingdom, which have not initially supported the Norwegian position in this regard, has agreed to reject it before the Court of Justice in The Hague. This means undermining the decision taken by the UN in the General Assembly, supported by Norway in the General Assembly. Then the case is brought before the court in The Hague, and Norway says, strangely enough, that we do not support it, and refuses to deal with this matter. In Israeli opinion, this is of course used for everything it's worth. In fact, this offensive may have been used, because this is not a violation of international law, and Norway is undermining the United Nations authority. My question to the Council of State Frafjord Johnson is: how can it be that one is so unambiguous in the condemnation of this, while at the same time undermining the authority of the United Nations by rejecting the fact that the case is being raised, as requested by the United Nations, before the Court of Justice in The Hague?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e286	I think the representative of Djupedal had the opportunity to ask the Constitutional Council of State about this in the Questionnaire last week. I find that this was not the case. However, I will provide the Norwegian Government with an answer to this, even if it does not belong to my constitutional responsibility. There is no doubt about the Norwegian position. There is no doubt that this is illegal in relation to international law. We've said that, and that's what 144 other nations have said. In terms of content and substance, we therefore fully agree with the Palestinian self-government authorities in this matter. Then there is a question of which mechanism to use, and whether to use the Hague Court as an instance to establish something that, in the opinion of the entire international community, is illegal, is a proper way to go. So it's a question of methodology, and not a question of politics and international law. The international law is clear, and it is now up to the Hague Court to decide for itself whether to take this case, and on that occasion Norway has also sent its input to the Hague Court, and then the Hague Court can decide for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e296	There will be follow-up questions — Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e299	It is good that Regeringa is very clear that the construction of the partition wall is contrary to international law. But the Center Party also wonders that you are not willing to use all diplomatic channels to support that particular point. By not taking this case to The Hague, there is a risk of two things, both that the case is exploited by the Israelis, as we already see, and that the Palestinians are further discouraged from using diplomatic channels. My question to the Minister for Development is whether she sees that this handling, that the matter is not taken to The Hague, will further contribute to reducing the Palestinians' belief in diplomatic channels and instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e306	I would say that it is not right to use the designation diplomatic channel on the International Court of Justice in The Hague. It is a legal and legal instrument of international international law, not a diplomatic channel. Norway has used all the diplomatic channels that can be used in the UN International System, not least bilaterally towards Israel through the talks of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister. As regards the question of the Hague Court, it is for the Court of Justice to assess this for itself. It has now received a case on its table, and it will decide for itself whether to deal with this matter, and in what way. There are 44 states, including Norway, that have made representations to the Hague Court on the occasion of the case, and now it is up to the Court to assess how it will deal with this issue. But I repeat: there is no doubt about the Norwegian position, there is a question of how to use the Hague Court in these kinds of issues, which is the basis for the Norwegian position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e313	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e316	We in SV greatly appreciate the good will of the Minister for Development. But it seems that the international community is powerless towards Israel, which is in violation of all UN requirements and international law and continues to build the wall on Palestinian soil. This creates a huge frustration in the Palestinians. As Terry Boullata said to the newspaper yesterday: «... we are tired of comforting words from politicians and other visitors. We want action. We want to end the abuses, ’ What does the Minister for Development think can be done now, in concrete terms, to press Israel to stop the construction of the wall, and get this wall of shame torn? Or does the Minister for Development have no advice at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e326	I repeat that exerting pressure or dealing with the kind of bilateral foreign policy issues is not my task. I am the Minister of Development, and I have a constitutional responsibility for the development-related issues. There is no doubt that the consequences for the Palestinians are great, also socio-economic, and the frustration to which the representative refers is also very deep and very, very strong on the Palestinian side. As I replied to the representative of Djupedal, it is very difficult to say how to contribute to the follow-up of UN resolutions. We are now using all channels – that is the primary responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister to do so – in relation to the international bodies we have, in particular the UN, but also by giving clear bilateral notice. Norway has, and we still will. In addition to that, I do not, within my constitutional responsibility, have any means to point out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e335	Last follow-up questions – Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e338	Let me first say that I am pleased that the Council of State so clearly stresses that the wall is contrary to international law. I also want to add that the apparent failure of the international community also has a deterrent effect on the Palestinian population, it seems frustrating, it exacerbates the contradictions, and it is clear that it contributes to a new generation of young people like, among other things. become suicide bombers. In general, you might say about the Middle East that there should be no walls here, bridges should be built. We don't get peace in the Great Middle East either, if it's possible to call it that, before you solve the Palestine-Israel conflict. It is such that the great poor masses of other lands in the Middle East today channel their anger against Israel rather than against their own despots. I would urge the Norwegian Government, in this context the Minister for Development, to continue this issue, because it is important to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e347	I think the representative Nybakk referred to something the pope has said. I think in this context he has said something very reasonable about this wall, that to create peace, you do it by building bridges, not by building fences. In relation to exactly what is happening on the Palestinian side, I can at least say that the government is going to follow this up and is very concerned not only with the situation in the Middle East – we have an inheritance to take care of – but also with regard to the wall. What I have constitutional responsibility for, I can promise will be highly focused and prioritised from my side. I am also going to talk to my colleagues in the Utstein Group and others about how it is possible for us to angle aid and development cooperation in such a way that we can help the Palestinian people maximum in the situation they are now in, where the suffering is great, and the frustration – as the representative rightly points out – is very high. We have to use the tools we have at our disposal, and I can promise that we will.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e354	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e357	My question goes to Minister of Oil and Energy Steensnæs. I would like to address a problem concerning the flood in the North West and in Trøndelag in August 2003. There was a great flood, where six municipalities were particularly hard hit. Damage for 6.5 million. kr was covered by the State budget for 2003 and it was 100 pst. of that part. But there's still work to be done for about 16 million. kr, which must be done in 2004. In questions to the oil and energy minister from me on 27 January 2004, I asked if 100 pst will be given. coverage for the rest of the works. The answer was perceived as being given 80 pst., and the municipalities and interested parties had to cover the rest – i.e. 3 million. kr. In Møre and Romsdal yesterday, a department director in the NVE informed that all the municipalities concerned had to cover the cost of 100 p.m. after the flood in Eastern Europe in 1995. I understand that the same was true for 1997. What does the Council of State think of this? Wouldn't it be reasonable to treat cleaning after these floods in the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e371	I then replied to a written question from the big-time representative, Inger S. Enger, about the coverage of the district share in terms of the flood in the North-West. That's right. That's 100 pst. of the costs of the floods in 1995 and 1997 were covered by a decision on a collapse. The cost of these floods was significantly greater than at the flood we're talking about in this case, and that hit, among other things. Norddal municipality. It is the Stortinget that has decided that the permanent security measures are to be financed through an 80 pst. government grant scheme and 20 pst. district share. That's what this department is after, and that's what's been followed in all other flood damage cases. I would also like to stress that in terms of the immediate measures to secure values and properties, the State covers 100 pst. of such expenditure. It is the more permanent security measures that have such a district share of 20 p.m., to which I referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e380	I thank you for the answer, but I wasn't completely reassured, especially because here we get a discrimination with regard to these floods, which are of great importance to people. I don't think there's any excuse that the Council of State says that the floods at that time were considerably larger. That's a lot of money for them. Here we're talking about both companies and municipalities that get a lot of money. I think it should be so that the Council of State goes in for 100 pst. Thus, coverage, as it now appears, is a real disagreement between the NVE and the Council of State. It is a practice that the Council of State should not seem to be right. Interested parties are now uncertain about this and need clarification as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e387	The representative is quite right that if there is a disagreement about the interpretation, it is not for the Council of State. I just want to make it clear that I am dealing with a big decision. The size of this legislation was such that in 1995 and 1997, 100 psts were covered. of the damage. But one then got a rule, which was discussed and maintained at the latest in St.meld. No 42 for 1996–1997, where it was found that the general rule is to cover 20 pst. through a district share and 80 pst. through a State share. There is an opportunity to apply for a derogation. No such derogation has been received by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e396	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e399	The discrimination which exists in dealing with these applications has caused great concern. Many have expected to get 100 pst. Coverage, as obtained from the large floods in the 1990s. There is probably also every reason to believe, unfortunately, that floods are going to become a more frequent phenomenon, in line with the developments we have seen internationally, and also in line with climate change. This allows you to face even greater damage in the future, so if it's just going to be 80 pst. coverage means that a greater proportion of the costs will fall on the community. This is a political decision, and the Council of State is absolutely right to hide behind it. But a political decision does not stand for eternity. My question is whether the Council of State will come back to revision with an assessment of the wisdom and appropriateness of the implementation of this rule. The fact that community ownership is so high as in this case makes it uncertain how to finance much of the work that has been done. There are many entrepreneurs and others who have contributed to relaunching societies, and there is now uncertainty about who will bear the costs. My challenge to the Council of State is whether he will come back to revision with an assessment of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e410	I want to repeat that in terms of the immediate remedial measures to secure the value and property, the state covers 100 pst. of such expenditure. It is the long-term hedging measures that have a district share of 20 pst. I am pleased that the representative, Mr Djupedal – to the extent natural enough – accepts that the Council of State cannot exempt itself from what is a major legislative measure. I see that there may be borderline cases with regard to these large barrels, where the Storting has decided that 100 pst. of the long-term hedging measures also to be covered by the State and that the size of the floods may lead to uncertainty as to where the limit goes in relation to what would be a reasonable district share and when to cover, for example, the State. 100 pst. I made the representative of Enger aware that it is possible to apply for a derogation. If such an application comes, I will of course evaluate it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e419	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e422	I will allow myself to ask questions to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The Labour Party believes that the Government is wrong when it conducts an energy policy that means shutting down industry, and high electricity prices to household customers. The majority of the population have ensured that three concessions have been granted for the construction of gas power plants in Norway. As you know, the Bondevik I government chose to leave because it was opposed to that access to energy. The construction of gas power plants in Norway has also been absent, on the grounds that it is not profitable. In January this year, a decision was taken in Sweden to start the construction of gas power plants in Gothenburg. Can the Council of State explain to the Norwegian people how and why gas power plants can be built in Sweden, but not in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e431	Norway participates in a Nordic power market together with Sweden, Denmark and Finland, and therefore initially there are equal prices in the Nordic market. However, it may vary somewhat because of the so-called bottleneck principles. As regards the construction of conventional gas power stations, it is right that the representative of Klungland now refers to that three such concessions have been granted. It is entirely up to the owner to assess for himself whether, in the light of long-term electricity prices and current gas prices, it is profitable to realise this. I have understood that a gas power plant is planned in Gothenburg, based on current gas prices and the future electricity prices in the Nordic market. This company obviously has other assessments of the risks associated with the construction of such gas power plants. It is quite up to the companies to assess this risk. This is not up to the Government to assess; it is an assessment that the Board of Directors has to decide on in respect of the concessions in question. So this isn't up to the government. However, I would like to refer to the 2002-2005 long-term programme of the government of Stoltenberg, which reads as follows: ‘The profitability uncertainty also contributes to uncertainty as to how quickly gas power plants can be built.’ This shows that neither the workers' party government would ensure that the gas power plants were built, but, of course, leave such assessments to the concessionaire and to the company's profitability assessments. It is the companies that must be responsible, it is the ones that have been granted the concessions, and it is the ones that must take the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e443	I think this is quite eye-catching. Norway has an energy minister, and the Labour Party means that we have a government council to ensure that Norway has enough power and energy. There is nothing to suggest that the Swedish should be able to build these gas power stations a little better than Norway should be able to. There is a suspicion that there may be political leadership over the fact that gas power stations are not being built in Norway. Now the Council of State has the opportunity to explain how he will in the future cover the power balance deficit in Norway. In the Labour Party, we think he should take advantage of this opportunity, and try to explain it to the Norwegian people, so that we do not base our power needs on neighbouring countries and pollution there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e450	I think it is quite alarming if Rolf Terje Klungland now indicates that the Council of State should interfere with the company's profitability assessments and take responsibility for the obligation on companies to build gas power plants despite the fact that they themselves find it unprofitable. I would like the representative of Klungland to confirm that this is what the Workers' Party intends to do with what he is now saying. With regard to our measures in relation to security of supply, I will refer to the Government's 10-point list in the security of supply message that is now being dealt with in the Storting: 1. strengthening the conversion of energy use and production2. improve regulation and planning measures in energy conversion3. strengthen the basis for more hydropower generation, not least small power plants4. work on a single Norwegian-Swedish market for green certificates5. increase the use of natural gas6. strengthen Nordic electricity cooperation7. ensure continued effective competition in the power market8. clarify the responsibilities of the RACs and the system operators9. facilitating increased consumer flexibility It is the answer to the question asked by the representative of Klungland. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e491	There will be follow-up questions – Olav Akselsen. So the number is one minute!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e496	This answer shows that the Council of State has abdicated, when he says that it is entirely up to the market to obtain electricity from Norway. I must say, I think it's interesting. During the last Bondevik government, the goal was that Norway should be self-sufficient in electricity; we should bet on imports to meet our needs. Last winter we imported power from Russian nuclear power stations and from Polish lignite. In Denmark, an old coal power plant was fired, and the Swedes and Finns started running their oil power plants. CO2 emissions in the North exploded. Now we know that gas power plants will be built in Sweden, and this power will go right into the Norwegian network. In Norway there has been a strong debate devoted to the release of Norwegian power generation. And my question is, is there no concern in the government system about the emissions that come from the production that we import across borders?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e505	With regard to the Akssen representative, I would like to challenge him to answer the question that I did not get an answer to from Rolf Terje Klungland, but that the representative Akssen has the opportunity to answer. Does the Workers' Party and Olav Aksensen believe that the Government is going to review the profitability assessments contained in the three given gas power concessions? And what responsibility does Olav Aksensen think that the government must assume? With regard to the profitability assessments that the Swedish concessionaire has, it must be clear that they are willing to take higher risks and have lower profitability margins. It must be up to the companies themselves to assess whether this is correct, but based on the information I have from the three concessionaires – I have good contact with them, I am talking both to the directors and representatives of the management of the companies – they do not consider it profitable and justifiable to invest in such gas power plants now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e512	The President would point out that in this questioning process, the questions are from the representatives of the state council. If there's anything the council is wondering, he'll get answers out in the hiking hall afterwards. Ingvild Vaggen Malvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e517	It might be tempting to ask the Council of State how many gas power plants can be built, and how much fossil electricity we can bring into Norwegian production, which, according to him, is 99 pst. renewable today, without compromising the previously mentioned EU renewable directive. But I'll leave it. In the case of the gas power plant in Gothenburg, it has 90 pst. efficiency. A finished gas pipeline from Denmark is already located there, and it is a complete infrastructure for district heating. That is the reality. I wonder how many places in Norway that is the case. In addition, in order to meet the climate objectives, the Council of State points to the objective of achieving so-called CO2-free gas power plants – which appears to be difficult to achieve unless subsidies are provided under the State budget. At the same time, in comparison with SV in terms of the gas message, it has been said that a green certificate system for renewable electricity generation should be introduced. It could increase the production of renewable electricity while remaining within the framework of climate objectives. The Council of State postpones this until 1 January 2006, and I wonder why this should take so long, when Sweden introduced the same system from 1 May. And if we're going to be inspired by Sweden, I think we're going to do it on the renewable side.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e524	I just want to assure the representative Vaggen Malvik and Stortinget that we are working with maximum pressure to implement this. The implementation of a green certification market, an electricity certificate market, between Norway and Sweden is interesting. This is interesting in relation to the experience we want to gain, and in relation to establishing a larger international, at least a European, green certificate market. However, there are quite a number of technical and legal processes and negotiations with the Swedes that are to be carried out before we can establish this safely. It is also important to stress that all the conditions and consequences of such a green certificate market should be made clear to the parties, operators in the market, in order to avoid any uncertainty and thus to lose some momentum in the important effort to generate renewable energy sources. It makes us want to take the time it takes to do this properly, and 2006 is the time I've suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e529	Øyvind Waksdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e532	I would first of all like to express satisfaction that representatives from the Workers' Party are now supporting gas power, and I hope that the support will last longer than it does. So to the government, which has a strange notion, not to say a delusion, about the use of gas. Gas leaving the country is good environmental policy, while gas to be used in Norway is pollution. At the same time, knowing that gas for power generation in Norway will largely replace power from coal and nuclear power plants in other countries, this becomes completely incomprehensible. Will the Council of State tell me, and to the extent also the Norwegian people, what environmental benefit is being gained by keeping alive in old coal and nuclear power stations abroad, instead of investing in Norwegian gas power stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e539	The fact that this government is so significant in order to increase domestic use of gas is precisely the reason why we have put forward such a comprehensive strategy to achieve this. It's not right that this government doesn't bet on gas, it's the opposite. There is no government that has put forward such concrete plans for increased domestic use of gas. And I'm glad that the whole Biggest, minus the Advance Party, ends up so clearly on the government's strategy. So that's how this gas is going to be used. This government then places the emphasis on doing so without breaking major international conventions on climate and the environment. The Progress Party has no sense of that, they are not interested in it. I take note of that. Fortunately, however, it does not disturb the image of a broad agreement in Stortinget to ensure good use of Norwegian gas resources without causing damage to the climate and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e546	Marit Arnstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e549	Now it is not exactly a bomb that the Workers' Party believes the Government has the wrong course in energy policy. And when the axis here says that Steensnæs has abdicated in the gas power question, it's probably doubtful whether Steensnæs has abdicated more than what Akselsen did in his time in the State Council chair. A spade roof was not taken at any gas power plant during the time the Workers' Party and the Axis were put with the government power. The problem is that the concessions are there, but the builders do not find it commercially profitable to start gas power plants. This is the problem of the builders. The government's challenge is that a desired gas power plant that can be CO2 free. It is a solid developmental and technological challenge, to which the State must be willing to contribute. There is a technology that exists, but it costs a lot, and Norway might have done a business if we had been the first to develop it. The government's plans and the money put on the table so far are very modest. How have the Government and the State planned to bring forward the CO2-free gas power projects in such a way that they can actually be realised?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e557	I fully agree with Marit Arnstad, also in what has to do with money. For the time being, the government’s commitment has been largely based on research and development. But at the same time, the government has said that it will do two important things, and there are significant costs and promises associated with it. Firstly, it is possible to finance a pilot plant for the testing of gas power plants with CO2 management. Such gas power plants will cost 500 million. kr. In addition, the Government has said that when we have a technology that is satisfactory and cost-effective enough, it will co-finance the additional costs of CO2 management. For the time being, the road passes through pilot plants, and the Government has said that it will come back in the spring of 2004 in the notified gas message, where it will set up a support programme for such pilot plants. We're very interested in getting different options that can compete, so we can pick out the best project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e562	Then we go to the last main question. For the sake of time, follow-up questions will not be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e565	I have a question for the Minister of Development. Unfortunately, the security is clear evidence of the difficulty and persistence of the Middle East conflict. Today, the Council of State has spoken warmly and enthusiastically about suffering and frustration on the Palestinian side. She did not mention the suffering and frustration that is on the Israeli side, but that is equally full there. Less hate and more tolerance must be a measure of the relationship between Israelis and Palestinians. However, unfortunately, we experience that, for example: Recent Palestinian schoolbooks call for holy war and give a positive picture of suicide bombers. Norway provides substantial assistance to Palestinian authorities, including school support. Is the Council comfortable financing Norwegian aid money for a school system that teaches children that hatred and intolerance are acceptable and that non-Muslims are inferior people?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e574	I was on a development-related visit, and that means I was looking at the assistance programs. So I did not have a case in connection with the peace process between Israel and Palestine, and so it did not cause a visit to the Israeli authorities either. They are not a development partner for us, even if they receive assistance from others. So to the question, it is that the education system on the Palestinian side has received considerable Norwegian support over time. I myself attended a school with mainly girls who went from 1st to 10th grade, and got to see for myself how Norwegian assistance actually contributes to providing students with learning, knowledge and schooling. Not least for women, it is very important. So in our assistance to the education programme, we support the construction of schools and classrooms, we are not in favour of textbooks, to which the representative refers. I think I've answered this question very many times in Stortinget, and I think we've also shown that there's a good deal of misinformation spreading about the content of these textbooks. I do not have time to detail that error information in this short answer, but we have responded to the Storting several times. So it's that we don't support textbooks and textbooks, but we build schools, classrooms and contribute to the funding of the education system. It's very necessary, and it's a very good help, and I've even been a witness to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e581	It's probably doing a lot of good in the Palestinian schools, there's no one in doubt about it. School books published in 2003 have a content that is highly untolerable, and there is nothing that I feel that we as a nation can put ourselves behind. It is true that in the past positive changes were made to the Palestinian schoolbooks, but it now seems as if you are back on a wrong track again. The fact that schoolbooks are not directly financed by the Norwegian side, but other parts of the school system, does not detract from Norway's responsibility for the total education given? Is this not a question that needs to be addressed with the Palestinian authorities, in order to ensure that schoolchildren in the Palestinian territories – as well as elsewhere, of course, but here Norway is funding this – can be taught to tolerance, so that a better basis for peace can be found in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e586	I fully agree with the importance that children and young people receive education that is rooted in the equality of human dignity for all. I believe part of what we're looking at on the ground in the Palestinian territories now, does not contribute to such an understanding on the Palestinian side, so that both parties have a very important responsibility to ensure that we communicate that everyone has equal value, whether it be Jews or Palestinians. When it comes to concrete textbooks, I've also said that we've blacked the Storting several times on this. There is a lot of misinformation about this issue. We have the opportunity to come back to the representative Morten Höglund with the information we are sitting with. I do not know that there are new revisions going on, or new changes, to which he refers, and that is something we might get back to. But I repeat that the assistance we give to the Palestinian territories here is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e593	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e599	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 15, from Knut Werner Hansen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been withdrawn. Question 17, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has a history of disease. Question 18, from Rita Tveiten's representative to the Minister for Fisheries, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has a disease incident.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e615	I will ask the Prime Minister the following questions: ‘The Minister of State pointed out in his statement on the municipal days of Stavanger that the Regening assumes that any municipal convergence should be on a voluntary basis. Two days later, the municipal minister, Erna Solberg, announced that if the municipalities are not able to speed up the merger work, she is ready for coercion. Can the Prime Minister clarify what is actually the Government’s strategy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e624	Yes, I can, in full agreement with the Minister of State. The assumption of voluntary participation in municipal associations is established. Of course, the area of free will is also the basis for both the Government's policy and the cooperation project on municipal structure that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has now undertaken together with the Local Governments' Central Association. Under the partitioning law, only the Storting may adopt municipal associations by coercion. Therefore, if the voluntary line is to be changed, it is a majority in the Grand Duchy that must decide in the event. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has stated that if the cooperation project with the Local Governments' Central Associations does not deliver results against the assumption, it will be up to the Stortinget to assess whether the voluntary line, as it has been designed today, should remain stable or should be modified. The size will be briefed on the cooperation project in spring 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e638	There is no doubt that the Minister of State will be understood; it is a quote that shows that she is talking about two steps. She first talks about a step of volunteering, and then, in the next round, if massive municipal mergers don't happen, she's open to coercion. Is it, then, that the Minister of State, with his penchant, acts on behalf of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e643	I think you should pay attention to what the Council itself in its own articles here has expressed. She was reproduced in a few newspapers after the conference in Stavanger, to which Meltveit Kleppa refers, where she was also present. The most accurate rendering finds one in the Evening Post. And so she also in the newspaper, where what she said was drawn much longer, wrote an article to clarify what she meant by this. She has not notified that she necessarily goes forcibly, but she closes this post as follows: ‘But if it turns out against assumption that this work does not produce results, I have also stated that it will be up to the Stortinget to assess whether the volunteering line should be fixed or changed.’ It is a precise expression of the opinion of the Council of State, and it should not be drawn further than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e653	Now it is that the Storting often takes its decisions on the basis of issues that have been initiated by the Government. Is the Prime Minister in agreement with his municipal minister that coercion may become applicable in the next round, or does he stand by the principle of ‘freedom’?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e658	The principle of voluntaryity is established as long as nothing else has been adopted and the principle of volunteering has been adopted by a majority. The policy of the Government underpins this cooperation project. The size will be briefed on the cooperation project in spring 2006. So there's a good deal ahead of you, and I think we should wait to draw conclusions so long in advance and before this cooperation project has started. My hope is that this cooperation project will be positive in the sense that the municipalities themselves come up with structures and possibly intermunicipal cooperation, which is also increasingly relevant, which means that we get the best possible service for our citizens around the municipalities. It must be crucial. And my basic position is that the local politicians themselves know best.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e669	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘The Ministry of Finance has, in a letter to the Royal Danish Federation of Boats, stated that a tender for the acquisition of the Small Boat Register during the first six months of this year is envisaged. Will those who are to take over the operation have to cover the investment and development costs of the Directorate of Customs and Fees, what will be the operating costs of the Small Boat Register, if any, and will the Directorate of Customs and Fees be given the opportunity to take part in the tendering process?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e678	The government does not consider the operation of the Small Boat Register to be a natural task for the State. This means that public enterprises, including the Directorate for Customs and Charges, cannot participate in the competitive tendering process. The customs and charging seat has significant challenges in the future and will focus on its core tasks. It would not be appropriate to require a new owner to cover the investment and development costs incurred by the Customs and Tax Directorate. After the completion of the competition, one could say something about how the directorate's work on the register and the transfer to new drivers comes together financially. The transfer will focus on ensuring that the register will continue to fulfil in the future the fundamental reasons and purposes set out in the Law on Leisure and Small Boating and related to Safety, Investigation and the Environment. The operation of the Small Boat Register is intended to be self-financing according to today's arrangements. Under the law on small boats and under the regulations provided for in this provision, a fee of NOK 300 is payable for initial registrations and subsequent re-registration of ships subject to the legislation. How the costs of operating a register under private ownership will be covered will be up to the new owner. However, when deciding to transfer, we want to stress that a new owner can keep the register in the best possible way for the boat owners and the other users. The use of tendering procedures shall ensure that we obtain a good register, operated in a cost-effective manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e687	I thank you so much for having received the answer, but not for the content of the answer. I think it's a pity that ideology should be used here, when the results are so good with the Small Boat Register as it operates today, both in terms of recovery, the fact that users are very satisfied, and that you have a very low cost level on it. When the Council of State says that it is up to the new owners to find out how to cover the costs, I would say that there is a great deal of concern in the boat environment that this is going to be a dairy cow for the new owners. Will there be a pre-requisite in the tender that it will continue to be self-contained?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e696	It is not ideology in the real sense of the word that lies behind it when we say that the customs and tax haven should concentrate on its core tasks. Very familiar is the small political disagreement about it, and I have received several recommendations from the Storting to strengthen the efforts of the customs and tax haven in core areas such as combating cross-border crime, smuggling, etc. – it's the core tasks. If it is an ideology, then it is a very broad ideology, with broad political support. The concern of the small boat owners has mainly been that the Small Boat Register should become a tool for the authorities to impose a fee in addition to a fee. The small boat owners can now take it easy. We have established, and with the reorganisation we want to further confirm it, that such a charge does not come into effect. What we enter into the tendering terms is shown by my first answer. We emphasise that it should be operated in a cost-effective way and that there should be no indirect new charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e705	I thank you for the additional response, but I do not know if it is appropriate to reassure them in the boat environment who are concerned that new owners can see this as a source of income for what else they have to do. The cost-effective nature of the operation is not a protection against profit. Here you will have to deal with one register, and there will therefore not be any competing register that you can go to if the costs here increase beyond NOK 300, which it costs today to get the boat registered. With regard to smuggling and Customs' core tasks, I would just like to point out that boat thefts are actually part of the issue of cross-border crime, and so it is difficult to say that they are completely outside the scope of the Customs Directorate's core tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e712	I am familiar with the police case that conducts investigations in connection with boat thefts. The Small Boat Register shall be a tool for users. Among the users are also the police and countymen's seat, of course. And for the police there must be as good a tool after this reorganization as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e722	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Finance: «According to the amendments to the tax law § 2-1, it has now been decided that emigration is not possible as long as one has a dwelling in Norway. Spouse, cohabiter or minor child may also not have accommodation if emigration is to be approved. In this context, it has been argued that emigration can also be refused if he/she has minor children from previous living conditions in Norway, even if he/she is not in contact with the child. Does the Council of State consider this to be a correct interpretation of the rules?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e731	The core of the new rules is that tax residence in Norway can only lapse if the resident takes up permanent residence abroad. The new legislation introduces some criteria for a person to be considered as being emigrated for tax purposes. It's done to avoid too much discretion. The question raised by Hagesetter relates to one of these conditions of fiscal emigration, namely that the person claiming emigration cannot dispose of housing in the state. If the transferred person himself disposes of housing in Norway after the relocation, there is no tax emigration. The same applies if the displaced person has related persons who have a residence in Norway. Thus, the law establishes an identification rule, where the view is that the transferee has retained a residence relationship with Norway when it is a related person who has a dwelling here. The law defines what is meant by the provision of housing. Disposal means direct or indirect ownership, rental, or otherwise having a basis for the right to use the dwelling. The law further limits the range of related persons in this context to the taxpayer's spouse, cohabitants and minor children. The reason why minors are included here is that it would otherwise be too easy to circumvent the condition by transferring the formal right of residence, for example. to a family home, to the child, at the same time as the expatriated parent actually has the same place of residence as before. The definition of ‘related’ by the law means that a former spouse or cohabitant is not considered to be related after a break in life. Consequently, such a person may dispose of the dwelling without affecting the tax status of the taxpayer. However, the minor child of the emigrated child will continue to be considered related even after the breakup with the former spouse or cohabitant. However, the fact that the minor lives with a caregiver in Norway does not mean that the child should be considered to be in possession of housing in the Kingdom. Most minors do not live in housing which they themselves legally dispose of. Instead, they live with the caregiver who disposes of the common dwelling. It is such a type case that is addressed in this question. When common children stay with the mother after a break in life and the father moves abroad, it is usually the mother who disposes of the home and not the children. The fact that the children are still related to the danger does not cut off tax emigration for him. This applies in principle no matter how much or how little contact the transfer has with the children. However, tax emigration is also conditional on visits in Norway not exceeding 61 days per year. Furthermore, I mention that for people who move abroad after at least 10 years of residence in Norway, there is a special rule. The tax obligation here then lapses only after the fourth year after a relocation, which otherwise satisfies the emigration conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e760	I want to thank you for your answer. I thought that the interpretation given by the Council of State here is reasonable and good. It would be unthinkable if minor children from previous circumstances were to effectively prevent anyone from emigrating abroad. That one claims that there has been an emigration in relation to that of bowing in Norway is reasonable. But I'm glad that one has minor children from previous relationships that live in the dwelling, should not prevent this. I want to ask the Council of State if he wants to inform me of his interpretation further down in the department, so that there are no other opinions there, as I have received feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e769	The Ministry has been informed of this response and it is the Ministry that responds through the Council of State. Other agencies will also be duly informed about this interpretation, which I think is reasonably clear from the rules. The only thing that's a little dull, if I'm going to say it this way, is that association with former children is unfortunately limited to only 61 days. It has other reasons than just the right to co-exist. But 61 days will help, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e776	I want to thank you for the last answer too. I just want to comment on this a little bit with 61 days. There are 61 days in Norway, and there is no impossibility that even children from previous circumstances visit their father or mother abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e783	I hope that happens, but unfortunately we have less control over this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e792	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘Kautokeino Municipality has been struggling with the recruitment of doctors for a number of years and had 18 medical vicars in 2003. At the same time, a number of doctors from Kautokeino and other Sami communities have been given special study places, without having attached obligations to the specialities of admission to the medical study. Will the Council of State consider the provision of special admission services for the medical study, so that special-condition study places may be available for recruitment to areas with particularly large recruitment difficulties?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e801	It's true, as the representative of Ballo says, that Sami youth has been able to apply for the medical study on a special quota. The universities of Bergen and Tromsø both have, under the admission regulations, a quota of up to two places for applicants with a Sami background. Representative Ballo asked if I would like to assess the service related to these locations. The aim must be to contribute to the recruitment of municipalities with particularly large recruitment difficulties and where there are many Sami-speaking inhabitants. Initially, I would like to say that we have had a favourable development of general medical coverage also in Finnmark since the introduction of the permanent reform. At the beginning of 1 June 2001, there were 14 permanent homes available in the county. After that, the number of job vacancies has gradually decreased. At the end of 2003, the number was 4, i.e. 5 pst. of the permanent homes. It's the municipalities in Inner Finnmark that over time turn out to have the biggest problems. The Ministry of Health is aware of the problems of medical stability in Kautokeino. In 1997, Sámi University of Kautokeino received grants from the Ministry to carry out a survey on the experience of doctors in the municipality as a place of work and residence between 1991 and 1997. The study revealed that the problems were partly related to doctors’ knowledge of culture and competence in Sami languages and partly related to local conditions in the municipality. My policy on recruitment and stability in the general medical service has been ‘cooperation on organisation’ as a guide. The county doctor in Finnmark, with the support of the Ministry since 1998, has made considerable efforts to contribute to the recruitment and stability of the general medical service in the county. This effort requires a municipal commitment to succeed. A key issue in the challenges in Inner Finnland is whether cooperation on organisation is sufficient. The representative of Ballo’s question concerns the imposition of obligations on individual candidates relating to the allowances allocated to them. It is the Ministry of Education and Research that manages the admission rules of universities. In any case, this department may have to amend the rules. I will bet on the dialogue that has been initiated between the county council of Finnmark and the municipality of Kautokeino on state and municipal cooperation on organisation. Similar dialogues were launched in 2003 in Sogn and Fjordane between the county and local authorities on the challenges of general medical care in this county. This dialogue has so far led to a joint initiative for an overall effort with the support of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health Directorate. I have also asked the Social and Health Directorate to assess the possibilities for medical candidates with a Sami background to be given the first right to choose a tour site in Finnmark, and in particular municipality tours in municipalities with many Sami-speaking inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e814	I thank you for your answer. Especially the last thing that the Council of State came up with, is that you're looking at whether you can give priority to tour operators who come from this area, when it comes to the selection of the tour site, I think it's a reasonable procedure for recruiting to this area. It turns out that if you connect to individual municipalities during the tour time, you are more likely to stay there afterwards, for example. it is possible to establish yourself socially with a partner or a spouse, or in any other way to establish a relationship. Before I asked this question, I contacted the county doctor in Finnmark to look at today's arrangements. I record that there is a group guide for tour operators who have been a great success, which has been a sensible scheme that has helped to get more people to stay. At the same time, each year a fight on means of further education in social medicine is described. The same is true in the case of cutting-off aid for guidance in general medicine. There is a need for predictability in terms of arrangements, which means that there is no uncertainty as to whether they are liquidated. Will the Council of State take a look at this, so that the uncertainty can be avoided from year to year?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e823	In a situation where we now have a much better medical coverage of primary health services in Norway evenly across the country, it is my policy to focus on the special areas of the country that still face the greatest challenges. My idea is that we should use the tools we have, including the economics, towards those areas that have the greatest challenges. Inner Finnmark is such an area, and I take without a doubt the point that the representative Ballo pointed out, about the need for some stability in the framework conditions. I will take that into account in the further work and in the dialogue I have explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e828	I am pleased with the answer given by the Council of State. In SV, we have also registered with pleasure that the fixed medical system has been functioning recruiting, and that many municipalities, as in the past, have no problems today. As far as I have been before to the Council of State, it is important to have instruments where you have the most problems, because if you do not have a well-functioning primary health service, it obviously affects the population. However, it also makes inappropriate use of health services, for example: often leads to unnecessary hospitalisation. Like the state council, I'm going to think that now, when you have much better coverage in many places, it's also easier to find out the places that are struggling with particularly large recruitment difficulties. I would like to stress that this is not just a problem, which I believe the Council of State was also involved, in Inner Finnmark, but especially there, and perhaps especially in Kautokeino, the problems have been great. We would like – in an interaction with the Government – to be involved in and support targeted instruments both in Finnmark and in other parts of the country where the problems are particularly serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e837	I note that there is a great deal of agreement on what kind of approach you should choose here. I am pleased with the support of the representative, Mr Ballo, for a targeted work. As I said, we are in the process of getting quite far in Sogn and Fjordane. I think that the experience from there, along with the experience of the county doctor in Finnmark, and to the extent that the other county doctors, too, have, is very useful when someone should now move on in the process that I have described in relation to Kautokeino in particular, and Inner Finnmark in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e845	My question goes to the Minister of Health: ‘A serious hospital accident at Bodø Hospital resulted in a woman coming several years late for cancer treatment. Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation now provides future compensation justified by uncertain prediction and lifetime for the patient. Does the Council of State find this decision morally acceptable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e854	Norwegian Patient Indemnification Compensation treats patient indemnities under the Law of 15 June 2001 No. 53 on damages in case of injury to patients, etc. This law was passed by the Stortinget in spring 2001. On the basis of Section 7 of the Act, detailed rules are laid down, inter alia: on the organisation, tasks and competences of Norwegian Patient Compensation and Patient Injury Subject respectively. The latter is a complaint body in this type of case. Paragraph 2 of the regulation stresses the independence of these bodies and states: «Neither the Management Board»... «or the Ministry may instruct Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation or Patient Damage Subject on interpretation of law, judgement or decision of individual cases.» I am therefore asking for an understanding that, as Minister of Health, I cannot give an opinion on this specific matter or the treatment and decision of Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation in the case. In this respect, I also point out that VG’s referral to the case on 3 February 2004 shows that the patient has filed an appeal against the decision on the subject of the patient’s injury and that it has thus not been dealt with. This also suggests that one should be reluctant to comment specifically on the matter. However, on a general basis, I would like to stress that I understand that a decision on the future payment of compensation in personal injury cases can be difficult to make, in particular because such a decision in some cases would involve a close link between the question of compensation and the medical prognosis and the life perspective of the victim. For the sake of order, I also point out that VG's reference to the case shows that the information manager of Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation has expressed similar assessments of how this can be experienced by a victim. However, Section 4 of the Patient Injury Act states that the loss measurement is to be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Law 13 June 1969 No. 26 on compensation for damage and general rules on compensation. Under the Law on Compensation for Damage § 3-9, the general rule is that compensation is to be paid as a lump sum. However, in the case of ‘special reasons’, it is open to the full or partial fixing of the amount of the compensation. Such specific reasons may be considered to exist where, in a specific case, there is uncertainty relating to the determination of the amount of compensation. In particular, in the case of future losses or future expenses, it may be difficult to determine exactly what would be a victim's total loss or expense as a result of the damage. This may be further difficult if there is uncertainty as to the victim’s prognosis, or where the prognosis is so uncertain or so poor that it is difficult to have a safe form of how long the victim can live with his disease or injury. The exemption rule on future payments must be seen as a basis of a fundamental principle of Norwegian law on compensation that a victim must have fully covered his financial loss, while at the same time that a victim must not be covered more than that. In some cases, therefore, the future payment of the compensation will be chosen because it would otherwise be difficult to determine the actual loss. With this I have explained the law on a general basis. As I said, I understand that this can be experienced as heavy for the person involved. Without going into this matter specifically, the complainant has to decide whether it appears to have been assessed and decided in accordance with the applicable legislation. However, it is a fact that Norwegian replacement law allows for derogations from the single payment rule in exceptional cases, in such a way that all or part of the compensation is paid in instalments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e874	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In my opinion, the conduct of the NPE in this matter, by offering only interim compensation – i.e., implicitly assessing the woman’s life as very short-lived – is not only heartbroken, but it testifies that this public body, namely Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation, does not seem to emphasise the human aspect of this tragic case. How bad and disrespectful it must be for the woman in question, that a non-medical body measures her life span, we cannot interfere. Is it really in this case a substitute body to make forecasts of the life assumed by the claimant? Does the Minister of Health not understand this view, and is it not possible to do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e883	Well, the Minister of Health understands that such a decision can be very difficult for the person affected by it. It's not hard to understand. What I have to ask for, for my part, is that we are talking about a matter that is not finally settled. It is appealed for a complaint. There is a clear regulation that says that neither the Council of State, the Department nor anyone else can intervene in the specific decision. Then the case must find its decision there, as the law is. I have explained how Norwegian replacement law, which is at the bottom here, is to be understood. It is up to the management body to manage the legislation as adopted by the Stortinget. If Stortinget wants a different code, of course, the Stortinget is free to adopt it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e892	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad it feels as if the Council of State and I are purely human and moral in line. Of course, I didn't expect the Minister of Health to go in and promise to change something in the legal system of the NPE. But it could have been important if the Minister of Health also agreed with me that in this case the judgement should be taken very far in view of the tragic life situation of this individual, which has actually been imposed by the public health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e899	The patient compensation system itself is there for the benefit of people in such a tragic situation. Therefore, the Stortinget has adopted a special compensation scheme. It is the task of this body to manage the legal status for which the Storting has provided the basis by law. I believe that the matter is best served that I do not go beyond what is the law here, and that I do not go into the content of the individual matter. But I have clearly expressed how I understand the reaction that the person concerned must feel in the specific situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e910	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In the context of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Ap, it was decided that, in the treatment of uncomplicated high blood pressure, thiazides shall be the first choice for medical treatment. [[hypertension]] There are major differences in the occupational environment in relation to such practices, and the patient groups that are subject to this change are also not heard. Will the Council of State postpone the entry into force of this change, so that the objections of patient organisations and the professional community are carefully assessed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e919	The proposal in the budget agreement is in line with recognised international guidelines for the treatment of high blood pressure from Europe and the United States, and in line with the guidelines of Norwegian general practitioners. The guidelines are based on a review of all available evidence and include a number of large patient trials. In the light of this review, the concrete proposal was adopted here in Stortingen that the cheapest medicinal product is first tested in patients with uncomplicated high blood pressure. Uncomplicated high blood pressure means an increase in blood pressure without damage to internal organs, such as the heart, kidneys or blood vessels. The doctor thus has the full opportunity to derogate from the rule if there are medical reasons. I see it as an important task to ensure that taxpayers' money is used as efficiently as possible. In this case, we have a situation where there is evidence that more expensive medicines do not work better than cheap medicines. Then I see it as quite natural to demand that the cheapest medicines should be the first choice when prescribing the blue prescription for patients with uncomplicated hypertension. Of course, there may be patients with uncomplicated so-called hypertension who do not respond in the desired manner to the so-called thiazides. The budget ceiling takes account of this. If the doctor considers that the patient must have different from thiazides, the doctor may prescribe this on a blue prescription. The only thing the authorities require is that, in such cases, the doctor provides a medical justification in the patient’s records. I can't see that this is an unreasonable claim. I would also like to add that patients who are currently on second treatment should not be forced to change their medication. The measure thus only applies to patients who have not yet been treated for blood pressure. The budget decision taken by the Stortinge means that no patient will be allowed to change his established treatment, that doctors have full freedom to prescribe anything other than thiazides if medical reasons so require, and that the proposal is based on recognised international guidelines consistent with the conclusions of the largest study of antihypertensive medicinal products carried out. I would, of course, like to assure myself that the implementation of this decision is being carried out in a proper manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e932	I assume that the recognised study to which the Minister of Health refers is the ALLHAT study from the United States, to which it actually relates very much concerns, among other things. in the European scientific community, in the case of blood pressure treatment. What the scientific community is saying is that there is an under-use of aquifers in Norway, but that it should be used in addition to drugs already used. The Minister of Health seems to be somewhat passive in this regard and refers only to the so-called study, but does not take inward all the warnings that come from another team, among others. in Norway. During a large conference in Ullevål Hospital, a debate was held on the ALLHAT study and the European environment. When the Minister of Health says that he will of course check this out before implementation, that is to say that one leaves the launch as of 1 March, which has been announced now?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e939	Let me remind you that the doctor has full freedom to choose other medicines if medical conditions warrant it. Of course, no doctor shall be forced to prescribe a medicinal product which he considers to be irresponsible. No patient on medication today shall be forced to change medication. I further point out that the president of the Evening Post Association said on 23 January that the measure is understandable. What matters here is that, based on a medical assessment, doctors can still use other medicines, and he expects the doctors to follow suit. I am familiar with the debate meeting at Ullevål Hospital on 23 January, and I can inform you that the guidelines were defended, among others. by the Norwegian Society for General Medicine, i.e. the General Physicians. The measure is in line with the Norwegian Society for Public Medicine's own guidelines. However, it is a responsibility to ensure that implementation is carried out in a proper manner, and I will do so within the time available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e948	Now I myself was present during the debate on Ullevål, and arguments were given both for and against in the debate on the ALLHAT study in the United States, including that. It was shown that the diuretic used in the United States during the study was much stronger than that permitted in Norway. In addition, serious heart disease was also included in that study. It is clear that this is linked to major problems. The Minister of Health says that you can only give the reason why you don't want to use only thiazides, i.e. medical reasons. We all know that in the everyday life that doctors have today, this is an additional job. There is also a risk that, in a busy everyday life, it may become too easy to just prescribe this, without starting thorough investigations. In addition, it is also cautioned that if young people use thiazides over a long period of time, there is a risk, among other things, of using thiazides. increase in the incidence of diabetes among these. I have a question for the Minister of Health. As far as I understand, the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease has also requested that the entry into force of this change be postponed. Will the Minister for Health postpone it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e957	Neither the representative Nesvik nor I are experts in this field. That's why we have to rely on the professional assessments that apply in the environment. The proposal contained in the budget adopted by the Storting is therefore in line with recognised international guidelines for the treatment of blood pressure, both in the United States and in Europe. It is in accordance with the guidelines of the Norwegian Society for Public Medicine. The president of the Norwegian Medical Association recommends that the doctors follow this. I think it would be very special to say from a political point of view that this should not be done. There are some misunderstandings about this, but I have now made clear: no one should be forced to change medication or medication. No doctor shall be forced to prescribe anything which he considers to be irresponsible. In any case, it is the responsibility of the doctor to provide proper treatment and medication.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e965	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The board of Health Bergen has put forward a saving proposal to reduce the youth section Fanastøl, Hordaland’s only psychiatric long-term offer for young people with severe behavioural problems. Employees and relatives of those who are now patients at Fanastøl react strongly to the closure. How does the closure correspond to the Government’s desire to strengthen child and youth psychiatry, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that the youth group concerned in Hordaland receives full treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e974	The national priority of mental health protection in general and children and young people in particular shall be maintained and continued. The escalation plan for mental health means that the overall treatment capacity should be increased. At the same time, it is considered necessary to reorganise and streamline the provision of services in the field of mental health protection. In line with this, I am aware that Health Bergen is planning some changes in the organisation of the service provision in mental health protection. The regional escalation plan for mental health protection, which is now being treated in the West of Health, shows, among other things: that Health Bergen will establish a new children’s and young people’s psychiatric ward with all functions located in the Haukeland area near a future children’s centre. The representative of Bjørlo Lysbakken refers to the decision in Health Bergen that Fanastöl treatment home for young people with behavioural problems is to be reduced on 15 February 2004 and replaced by an alternative offer. The closure of Fanastøl is primarily justified by the physical and operational conditions of the institution. Fanastøl has six validated daily places for long-term environmental therapeutic treatment of young people with behavioural disorders. However, due to old and unsuitable premises, it has been possible in practice to treat only three patients per day at Fanastøl. The closure is in line with the initial approved mental health escalation plan in Hordaland County, where Fanastøl and Osheim treatment homes are provided for by five units in new premises. Health West has confirmed that the three young people who are voluntarily admitted will receive a full and good offer of long-term residence and related education at the Youth Section of the Children’s and Youth Psychiatric Department at Haukeland University Hospital, to which Fanastøl has been subject since 2000. A new daily post was created in 2003 at the Youth Institute in five places, and outpatient clinics for children and young people were strengthened by 13 posts. The transfer of young people will take place in cooperation with the officers. When it comes to reorganising the provision of services in the field of mental health protection, I have given the regional health businesses clear leadership. These include: requested that individual patients be involved and well taken care of in the event of changes in the offer and that no reduction in the offer can take place until an alternative offer is built up and available. I perceive that these requirements have been met in relation to the closure of the treatment offer at Fanastøl. The budget for Health Bergen has not yet been adopted. Health Vest informs us that the present draft budget represents an increase of approx. 3.1 pst. actually in excess of price increases. I have been informed in the governance dialogue with the regional health companies that the resources channelled into mental health protection through the escalation plan will be continued and that any resources released through efficiencies will remain in the field of mental health protection. I therefore assume that these leaders are taken care of by the reorganisation of the service provision in the mental health protection in the Health West.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e985	I thank you for your answer. When the Minister of Health talks about escalation and the Government's own goal of stepping up in relation to child and youth psychiatry, I think it's in place to remind you that the reason for the closure and relocation we're talking about here is neither escalation nor efficiency, but the need to save 7.5 million. kr on Health Bergen's budgets. That's the starting point for this. When you talk about Fanastøl still being liquidated in its present form, that's right, but that's because you had to move and step up the offer in new and better suitable premises. What happens now is that you move because you don't have the money to implement the original moving plan. So it's about a cut in the offer, and not a escalation, and it's finally a political responsibility. I want to challenge the Minister of Health again on how the kind of cut and lack of money matches the Government's goal of stepping up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e996	I believe that I answered that question very clearly and clearly in my first answer, but I will repeat the main points. There is a clear premise on the part of the Government to step up the efforts. Any resources released through efficiencies shall remain in the field of mental health protection and shall not provide for conversion processes, as requested by the Storting. And as the plans assume, as I have explained here, a service offer should not be dismantled until an alternative offer is provided and the offer is available. I'm pointing out that we've had a strong activity growth in childhood and youth psychiatry in the last year of over 30 pst. And I point out that in the draft budget for Health Bergen that has not yet been adopted, it is set up to grow approximately. 3.1 pst. in addition to price increases. These assumptions, which I have informed the health companies, we will follow closely also up with the Health West.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1005	I think it is a strange form of escalation to have to carry out the relocation due to a lack of 7.5 million. kr, which is the basic point here. Both on the part of the superior and on the part of employees, the media has raised strong objections over the past few weeks to the move that is now taking place and concerns about the offer. The Board of Health Bergen has a meeting today, where this plan is to be finally dealt with. I had hoped that the Health Minister would give a clearer signal to the Health Bergen government in a different direction from what he has done now, but we just have to bear in mind that the message coming here seems to be a support and therefore also a recognition of political responsibility from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1012	I do not know what the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken means by a signal in another direction. However, the signal given – and I would like to refer to the letter of 9 December 2003, which has been sent to all regional health businesses – is to have a stepping-up, to improve the efficiency of this sector, that nothing should be done without the establishment of an alternative offer. These signals are well known to regional health businesses and will be followed up by the department. The decision to lay down Fanastøl is anchored in plans previously adopted in the district of Hordaland, the county council, approved in the department and directorate, and followed up in the regional plan made by Health West. And it's not possible to underestimate, even if you're doing it in a budgetary context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1022	I will ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘Agricultural special environmental measures have been reduced by approx. Five million. 2001 kr. For Akershus and Østfold, the reduction is 1.1 million. kr. Akershus and Østfold have major problems running from agriculture to watercourses. The drinking water source Water Lake Water, which supplies 60,000, is heavily contaminated, and this also applies to the other watercourses in Eastfold. How can the Council of States defend the failure to give priority to Eastfold by means of specific environmental measures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1031	As Minister of Agriculture, I have engaged myself in the work of the Hobøl-Vansjö watercourse through the Morsa project. The Ministry of Agriculture has supported this project over several years through the allocation of funds from the special environmental measures scheme and the modified land-use scheme. The Morsa project received an exceptional grant of 3 million in 2002. kr from the scheme of grants for specific environmental actions. It is a pleasure to record that the project has produced very good results, including: as regards the reduction of agricultural pollution. The framework for the system of grants for specific environmental measures is established through the agricultural negotiations. The resources are allocated by the State's Agricultural Administration (SLF) to the counties according to the size of agricultural operations and special investments. Overall, the population indicates a need ranging from 1.5 to 2 times the size of each year. In allocating funds, the SLF has taken particular account of the additional investment related to Morsa and Vansjø. Relatively, Østfold and Oslo/Akershus, also for 2004, have come out with a higher frame than would otherwise have been the case. It is also worth noting that the environmental work in agriculture is now undergoing conversion. In a short time, much of the responsibility will have been delegated to the state and municipal level. With effect from January of this year, responsibility for the management of special environmental and forestry instruments is 230 million. kr, transferred to the municipalities. The allocation of funds will go through the counties to the municipalities. The allocation will be based on multi-annual municipal action strategies, which means a significantly greater degree of freedom for municipalities to prioritise. From 2005 onwards, all counties shall draw up regional environmental programmes. This shall form the basis for regional management of 350 million. SEK in 2005 and 400 million. kr in 2006. This means that the counties can tailor grant schemes to the specific environmental challenges they face in relation to agriculture. Provided that municipalities and counties cooperate well, the conversion will provide good opportunities for better targeting of the environmental work in agriculture and for local knowledge and involvement to be exploited. For Eastfold it can, for example, be specific. means that the county and the municipalities may choose to give priority to further efforts aimed at Morsa/Vansjö. As regards the commitment to Morsa, I would also like to refer to the Minister for the Environment's answer to question 24, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom, later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1042	Mom is a very good project, and we've been resting on it for years now. But Lake Van is even more polluted than before, there's big problems, it doesn't use here to put in 3 million. kr. Developments in Eastfold are a result of long-term government-driven agricultural policy, and that is what is now destroying our drinking water sources and water resources in Eastfold. It is the central authorities that have steered this policy, and it must also be a central responsibility to sort it out. In the budget configuration from this year onwards, the Economic and Social Committee points out in particular that the run-off situation of Eastfold has created major problems for the watercourses and that priority should be given to preventing and reducing run-off. What will the Minister do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1047	I agree that the situation is worrying, and we are following this with the Argus eyes of the Ministry of Agriculture. This applies in particular to a number of other watercourses in this country, the Jærvastret and others, which we also follow closely, but this watercourse is absolutely central. Now we're not going to make this worse than we can say that this good effort made by the state and local forces over the last few years has made good contributions, and I have a table that shows how in very many areas there have been many important improvements, but that's not enough. That is why the government is now paying even more attention to the kind of environmental work that I had in my answer, by providing municipalities and counties with a framework for self-priority. So from next year, the counties are going to make their own, state-owned, regional environmental plans, they're going to get dramatically more money, and this is already financed by the agreement of the agricultural settlement parties to move money out of the agricultural agreement to be allocated to the counties. Today's border in this area is about 100 million. So now we're going to go from 350 million. NOK 400 million. kr in the next two years. It really gives Eastfold an opportunity to bet, with the state's money, but with local priorities, and there should be a good interaction between the Government on the one hand and local politicians on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1054	Thanks for the answer. I don't think the council responded to what I asked for. The majority of the Committee has given a signal to the Council of State and the Ministry that Eastfold is the state to be given priority. What does he want to do with it? Furthermore, I would like to refer to an answer he came in last year, to almost the exact same question: ‘No matter how we operate it and organise it, it will be run-off from the area where it operates agriculture.’ And on the other hand, "But if we're going to make new progress, we're going to have to use the land for other things." That is the problem in Eastfold. You've used the land, after government leadership, for things that make our watercourses completely useless. This is actually a drinking water source, which now every summer is full of toxic algae that make people unable to bathe there, and it may well in the long run lead to major health problems drinking this water.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1073	The representative’s desire to give priority to Eastfold has been met, and I expressed that in my first reply, namely that it should be EUR 105 million within a framework agreed in the agricultural agreement – adopted in Stortinget. kr – on the basis of the actual criteria, historical basis, an increase has been given to Eastfold and Akershus just in order to take care of the Morsava stretch. So you would want the overall framework granted by the Stortinget to be higher, so that you could have a higher share, but within the limited framework that is, it's done a priority. So I would like to add that from 2005 and 2006 there will be a significantly higher framework, as I said in my reply, and it has already been clarified with the parties to the agricultural agreement as the basis for the regional environmental programmes, so that local politicians can prioritise in the future. As far as land use is concerned, it is clear that there is some of the main challenge. By laying black soil each year and sowing and growing grain, a risky run-off that one will not have if one has perennial grass cover. It is the individual farmer who has to decide what he is sowing and doing on his field, but we have tried to stimulate the profitability of this. Milk production, on which we have had a debate in the past, is a poor solution for Morsa, but meat production based on sustainable grassland, we have now stimulated the economy, and it will be a good solution for the farmers along the Morsa River.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1083	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘More serious acts of violence and murder have recently shaken Norwegian society. In a day's time, four people were killed! Crime says something about a society, so is ours. When the violence and killing cases reach such dimensions as we have seen here, it means, among other things, that criminal elements do not respect Norwegian laws and regulations. Are the Councils of State concerned about this development and what concrete action will the Council of State take?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1092	In 2003, 43 intentional or deliberate killings were committed in Norway. This is the same number as in 2002. The statistical material from Kripos shows that the figures do not imply significant changes compared to previous years. But when that's said, I'd say that for me, every killing is one killing too much. Behind the figures is a tragedy affecting people, not only the victim and the perpetrators, but also their family and friends. I am generally concerned about trends in the brutalisation of crime in Norway and am constantly assessing how the challenges facing us can be solved. Work on reducing the crime of violence continues, with particular attention being paid to violence in close relationships, family violence, and violence among children and young people. In the case of family violence notifications or notifications, police assess protective measures on an ongoing basis, such as: mobile violence alarms, the issue of a restraining order and an address bar in the public register. Violent cases shall be investigated, brought to justice as soon as possible. The police are constantly briefed on developments in different criminal settings and seek to upset them by various measures. Preventive work is also an important element here. In order to prevent violently convicted persons from committing new criminal acts between judgment and acquittal, priority shall be given to them in the pay queue. I would also like to mention the police's right of visit according to Section 7 of the Police Act, which allows people or vehicles to be visited in public places when there is reason to check that someone is in possession of weapons, knives, etc., which are prohibited from carrying in a public place. Police have carried out knife operations, including: in Oslo with good results. In the case of killings, there seems to be a larger number of killings that occur around the turn of the year, without a good explanation for the reasons. The challenges in the killing cases lie in the fact that most killings take place in private spaces and between close relationships. Of last year's 43 killings, 38 killings, 28 cases took place at the victim's and/or perpetrator's bopel. Ten of the killings were committed by spouses/partners or former spouses/partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1105	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. It's interesting in itself and okay so far. At the same time, I assume that the Minister of Justice agrees with me that one of the most difficult things is to predict accidental violence. In order to do that, and in order to prevent such violence, I assume that analyses will be a determining factor. Access to weapons for the criminal elements will be a decisive factor. I assume that to some extent police methods will also be a decisive factor, but the most important thing will perhaps still be the tolerance threshold of the individual before resorting to violence. As it is extended, my next question to the Minister of Justice will be as follows: Does the Minister of Justice feel that the analyses are good enough as to what kind of action we are taking and how to dispose of the resources available to him, and does the Minister of Justice feel that he has enough resources to monitor and follow up on in the most criminal environments in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1117	The background to the question is killing, and I've explained how most of the killings take place, that they happen in close environments. I would say that we have put a lot of emphasis on being aware of the violence in these environments. Among other things, the Ministry of Justice did a so-called snap shot survey last August/September, where we tried to find out what we know about the violence, who it is that knows about it, and who it is that reacts to it. There is especially violence in the private sphere. In the case of other violence, which I understand the representative has in mind since the question is formulated as it is, among other things. in relation to possible gangs or similar environments, my impression is that the police are following this closely. If we see e.g. in the number of so-called liquidations, there have been 11 in the period from 1998 up to and including 2003. The police are working very closely against these environments, and some of the turmoil is about following the environment. The Oslo police, who have the brutal case that took place on Sandaker, have just organized themselves to have a strong unit that will be able to meet all kinds of thoughtfully organized crime. So I feel that the police have both laws, methods and eventually also organisation to meet the most serious of these. But when it comes to what's happening in the private sector, I have to say that we have a big job to do that goes far beyond the police's range.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1124	I thank you again for the answer, which I still think is interesting. It is clear that the Minister of Justice has good intentions in what he wants to do. I want to take up the glove that the Minister of Justice has thrown, namely the killing of Sandaker. I have understood it there that one of those who was subjected to attempted killing, even making a judgment for attempted killing. Then the question to the Minister of Justice will be as follows: Is the Minister of Justice comfortable with the fact that people convicted of attempted killings, open-ended zones, and is he in the extension of the concern about the security of those convicted of the murders, but also of third parties, that is to say, general residents living in the neighbourhoods, who by chance may end up in similar situations that we have just experienced?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1131	There were two questions. One concerns safety. What the police have said briefly, and that is Oslo Police District, is that the settlements we see, without the concrete knowledge of the background, seem to occur in very closed environments among those who are there. It does not make it more acceptable, but it creates a certain degree of certainty that no others will be affected. But that doesn't make it acceptable. That means you have to switch on it. We are not going to have a development in Norway that we have had in some other European countries, where this actually has a significant amount. The second question concerns what happens in the transition between closed and open housing. It's a question I follow regularly. I have specifically asked to be briefed on practices, for example. in relation to the temporary residences on Sandaker, so that I shall be as up-to-date as I shall be in such a context. In general, we're strict on it. It appeared in a debate before Christmas in connection with the so-called Varg Vikernes case, but I have also, as I said, gone into it and asked for information in connection with a concrete reconciliation institution to be sure that I have enough knowledge of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1141	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The University of Bergen has provided lists of students from African, Asian and South American countries at the request of the Police Security Service. Does the Council of State consider this to be the task and procedure of the universities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1150	The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and means of delivery for such weapons are now a global threat from both state and non-state actors. Norway is actively participating in international cooperation to address and combat this threat. An important element of this work is the international export control cooperation aimed at preventing countries and non-governmental actors from accessing equipment, technology and knowledge to develop such weapons. This cooperation obliges Norway to have an adequate and effective export control. By law of the police, § 17b nr. 3 and 4 police security services are required to prevent and investigate the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and of equipment, material and technology for the production or use of such weapons and to prevent and investigate breaches of the Export Control Act, etc. The police security service's enquiries to educational institutions to access records of foreign students conducting relevant studies have to be considered in the light of this. Such an overview, together with other information, is desirable in order to assess any threat and the need for any preventive action. I have been informed by the Police Security Service that the service to current educational institutions has referred to the foreign law § 45, first paragraph, point (g), cf. Section 156, which requires educational institutions to provide the police with an inventory of foreign students or students on request. This is as far as I know, no different from what happens in other countries that we can compare with, that is. the Nordic countries and countries of Western Europe. However, I stress that the collection of such material does not in itself provide a basis for recording information about individuals in the police security service records and much less any kind of surveillance. I understand that more people can see it as sensitive that a university is asked to name foreign students as the police security service. As you can see, it's positive that there's now been openness around this, not least for the students themselves. Finally, I would like to point out that such preventive work by the Police Security Service is under the control of the Supervisory Authority of Storting – the EOS Committee – and I assume that the sample will come back to this issue in its annual report if the sample has anything to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1167	I thank you for the answer, but I would like to ask the Minister of Justice what is the reason why students from just these countries and not all foreign students are on the list. And then we're into a little sensitive things: shouldn't the police security department work out of suspicion, and not on a general basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1172	Here we are at the dilemma of a security service. I'm sure that if something had happened and the security service had bombed, this councillor or another state councillor in my position in this room would have been asked, what were you really doing with it? At the same time, it is quite clear that the representative is right to move forward in a way that allows you to find background knowledge. As I underlined in my answer, there is background knowledge you try to get hold of, and it does not in itself lead to any registration or monitoring. You have to find that background knowledge. Then it is that to find the balance that the representative is just concerned about, the Storting has set up the EOS Committee. It's just that we need to find the right balance and not miss a job that I see as very demanding and challenging both for the Norwegian community and for the PST.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1181	The Minister of Justice has previously been clear about the danger of stigmatisation of groups. For example, in the debate on immigration, the Minister of Justice has been very clear about this. Does the Minister of Justice see that the practice used here can lead to stigmatisation of people from some countries, and that it actually contributes to creating an image also in the opinion, that is, among the Norwegian population, that some special groups are potentially more dangerous than others? And is the Minister of Justice comfortable with students from some groups of countries in this context being picked up like this in lists?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1186	I have to say, once again, there is no general surveillance. You try to get knowledge. I have recorded in the public debate that the police security service says that they are trying to look at countries that do not have an active relationship with, for example. international conventions and agreements. So it's not about people's groups, but you're trying to get a general knowledge. I would like to tell the representative that a few years ago it was e.g. a debate in the student newspaper Under Dusken in Trondheim, where the student paper was concerned that the police security service and the senior management were naive in relation to the possibility that it could, for example, would be an industrial spy. There was a debate in which the student community tried to find the balance sheet. What I see as the main issue of the representative is keeping the balance. I share that with him and say that I will do my part to follow it, but the Storting has in fact also created a principal strong and important body, the EOS Committee, and it is my experience with the selection that it has a very clear and cash ability to tell if they want to say what they want to say about it. Of course, I'm dealing with that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1196	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In Kongswinger, a non-resident wagon train had an engine stop a few days ago. It was standing and blocked one of the carriageways in approx. One day before it was towed to the workshop. The wagon train caused many near - misses. Who is responsible for removing vehicles when the driver does not have the means/possibility to pay for the rescue?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1205	The basic rule for all traffic is that each person must act with due care and care so that no danger or damage can occur and that other traffic is not unduly impeded or disturbed. Initially, I would like to point out that the police's safety work is to be organised in such a way that efforts are directed towards traffic behaviour with the greatest risk of personal injury. With regard to the specific matter referred to by the representative, which concerns the intrusion of a wagon train on Kongsvinger on 22 January 2004, I can inform you that further information has been obtained from the Directorate of Police. The directorate has been informed by the chief of police in Hedmark that it is correct that a Polish wagon train remained on Rv 2 because it had technical problems and could not continue. There was a mechanic on the spot and he was working with the car. It is also stated that the police were on site several times, and the traffic conditions were assessed continuously. It was concluded that it was not necessary to ensure that the combination was towed away. This position was justified by the fact that the combination of vehicles was an obstacle, but it nevertheless did not represent any danger to traffic. Gradually, it turned out that there were major problems in getting the car going than initially assumed, and the police asked for it when the car combination was removed. Due to the size of the vehicle and many assignments for the car storage company, it took some time for the combination to be removed. As far as the police have gained experience with the car storage company, the drivers had money for the drain, but since this was a new car, it was the car factory that covered the expenses. The police department has also stated that there are no comments on the way the police have dealt with the matter. With regard to more generally the responsibility for requiring the vehicle removed, I can state the following: If a vehicle is located in breach of road traffic legislation, or there is a barrier to traffic, snow or other road works, it is the police who may, by virtue of the Road Traffic Act, require it to be removed or, if necessary, ensure that it is removed. There will be a specific assessment in each case of whether a vehicle is dangerous to the traffic or hindering it, which will determine whether the police will require the vehicle to be removed. If the police have provided for the removal or removal of the vehicle, the police may withhold the vehicle until the owner has met the costs incurred by the police in the course of the removal and detention of the vehicle.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1220	I would like to thank you for a comprehensive and good answer. I guess that's the last half that gave me an answer to what I asked for. There is no doubt, I understand, that the police have the overall responsibility that things are removed from the lane when they are at risk of other traffic, and that you can take a pledge in the vehicle, so that you can cover the expenses that a detachment, or other, might entail. So then I guess this should be pretty straightforward. There are, of course, many opinions about this particular situation, just as there will be many opinions about other similar situations. It's probably a general problem – that's why I took this as an example – that there are some foreign car combinations coming to Norway, and drivers have little experience in winter driving, perhaps with old vehicles that are somewhat poorly shunted, perhaps without chains, or that lack something else to drive on our winter roads, and then this creates situations that in turn create near-accidents and perhaps even accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1229	The representative gives a description that I recognize. A few years ago, when I was Minister of Transport, I got that question. I have been taking part in truck transport across Norway, because the Truck Car Association invited me to do so, and I learned a lot from it. One met, let's call it cars from countries where you might not be used to either curves or Norwegian roads — for example. it is a rather gripping motorsport exercise to sit on a vehicle train in the Rullestadjuvet on its way to the West. Everyone knows you have to do something about it. At the time, I was informed that care, control and information should be strengthened at the border. My impression is that the road authorities take it very seriously, and that the Minister for Transport is very aware of this. It is also my impression that there is good cooperation between road authorities and the police. The representative puts words on something that actually happens, which requires cooperation, and that the Norwegian authorities act. But the police's office here is crystal clear. Anyone exposed to this may be at risk of seizures. If that's what you're longing for in life, you'll get your wish fulfilled if you venture into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1238	I thank you once again for a good answer from the Council of State. My wish is that the Minister of Justice will have some talks with the Minister of Transport about several controls on foreign vehicle trains, especially from Eastern Europe, because it is well where most vehicles of somewhat poor quality come from. Then we can close them out and stop them at the border, so they can fix the defects and get them fixed, and then of course they get to drive on. I generally have the impression that the Norwegian vehicle is in a reasonably good condition, and that they have experience in winter driving, while for non-resident vehicles there may be something missing from it. So if the Minister of Justice now wants to take that conversation with the Minister of Transport – that's possible it's already done, but maybe he'll contribute a little bit – then I'm very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1247	Let me just say that the conversations are going on. I have been with the Minister of Transport for several checks, where the checks involved several of the authorities responsible for road traffic. My impression is that the awareness of heavy vehicles is significant, but I would like to continue those conversations, because I am concerned about it. It is part of road safety work. In addition – I kept saying – after traveling so many Norwegian roads, I have e.g. found that we still have western roads, including: in Hordaland, with curves dating back to the 1950s, but with asphalt coverings. I gave a description of a trip on Rv 5 between Førde and Florø as an advanced motorsport. Now, fortunately, it's cleaned up a lot. So it's clear that when I know Norway that way, I have a good understanding of the problem that the representative addresses and has a significant commitment to it. And I can assure you that the commitment I'm not taking off as long as I'm responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1255	‘The Supreme Court has just ruled on the further prosecution of a 17-year-old perpetrator of violence because, as a matter of urgency, child protection carried out forced detention in a child protection institution. The Supreme Court interprets the detention as a punishment and considers further criminal prosecution to be a double criminal offence. Norway has adopted EMK guidelines to abolish double penalties. What will the Council of State do to prevent child protection measures from legally being perceived by the judicial system as punishment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1262	I would like to thank Mr Dybevig for his question. The most important thing for me in matters of this kind is that children come out of it in the most strengthened way possible. The issue concerns the important relationship between the role of child protection and criminal law issues. It is essential that a child protection and criminal justice centre be able to take appropriate and effective measures to rehabilitate the child in question. In many cases, serious crime is caused by child care failure, and then it is important to ensure the child’s stability and proximity to the adult environment. §4-24 of the Children’s Protection Act provides the basis for forced institutional placement of children under the age of 18 who have shown serious behavioural difficulties in the event of serious or repeated crime, in the event of continued use of drugs, or otherwise. The decision is taken by the county councillor. The European Convention on Human Rights, EMC, Protocol 7 Article 4 prohibits the double prosecution of a criminal offence for the same purpose. On 22 December 2003, the Supreme Court, in its judgment of 4 to 1 December 2003, ruled that the decision of the county council to impose coercion on the basis of the option of serious or repeated crime is a decision of a criminal charge in the sense of the EMK. Since the Law on Human Rights provides that, in the event of a conflict, the EMC is to go ahead with the provisions of other legislation, this means that the decision will prevent a subsequent criminal action on the same criminal offence. The Supreme Court did not explicitly rule on whether the criminal case concerned the same issues as the decision on the location of an institution and lifted the judgment of the Lawyers' Court, so that the law now has to reconsider the case. Although forced placement in the particular case was regarded as a criminal offence, the decision of the county council only precludes subsequent criminal proceedings if the two cases concern the same relationship. The Ministry of Justice has been informed by the State Attorney's Office that the national lawyer considers that the provisions of the Child Protection Act and the criminal provisions in question differ in such essential respects that the criminal case relates to a matter different from that of the Convention. Therefore, in the view of the prosecution authority, the criminal proceedings may be promoted, and it has made a claim to the law enforcement authority. Against this background, I will await the development of the case and first assess the need for any legislative changes when the final decision in the case is in the legal system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1282	I thank the Council of State for a clear answer. He gives an interpretation in his answer that I also share. The decision to impose coercive measures on children is regarded by the Supreme Court as a criminal offence. For the common man, this seems unreasonable, and the unfairness lies in the fact that those who commit criminal acts are to be able to do so in Norwegian courts. In this case, the case was dismissed because the child protection measure is considered to be sufficient punishment. In my opinion, it is not the responsibility of child protection to punish, but to provide care for children in difficult situations. Child protection measures are treatment and rehabilitation and must not exclude punishment in my view. The future tone of the Supreme Court’s ruling on the way the courts deal with forced treatment by institutions could have adverse consequences in relation to the intervention of child protection or other public institutions, or even worse: failure to intervene in situations requiring immediate treatment. A prison sentence immediately after the act will not remedy this. Then my question is to the Minister: will the guidelines on child protection be revised, if necessary, if this judgment remains?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1291	Now the case is not finally settled, as the case is still under consideration in the legal system, and then I do not comment on the matter. I will simply follow the case, but I can attach two general comments to it. Now this council of states and this government has been in the hands of the Children's Convention, but on a general basis and independently of this case, we get an illustration of a dilemma in Norwegian law conventions. We may be at risk of having court interpretations and interpretations in Convention bodies outside Norway. It raises the fundamental question of whether it is Norwegian elected bodies that should have the possibility of interpretation or whether it is the seventh and last body of the Convention. I don't want to draw any conclusions here, because the matter is being dealt with, but this is a principle that I, as Minister of Justice, at least feel responsible for travelling. Of course, it's also the case, completely independent of this case, that child protection and the police should have close and good cooperation. There's something the Storting has been dealing with, and it's working for the Government. As the representative also knows, we have launched a number of concrete projects to ensure that this cooperation works. We know that when that cooperation works and is close, and they follow the child it's about, you find the measures in time. But it's just in situations where you can't do it, that the case can be pointed at. I will follow this case in the courts, because I see it as very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1302	I agree with the Minister that Norway is in fact very capable of incorporating conventions, both the Children's Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights, and I think that is the right policy. What we may not have been as competent about, as this case reveals, is to see the full extent – or consequence – of what these conventions mean for Norwegian court decisions. We might have to go a little bit further in relation to how to practice conventions in Norwegian law, and how to deal with conventions, for example. public services such as child protection, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1307	This case exists, and I have actually been to bring in the Children's Convention. But I have an obligation to travel awareness of what is happening. And the general consciousness, which I have commented on, is also addressed in the Power Investigation and is described as legalizing in Norway. This means, in practice, that where there have often been elected bodies that have at last weighed down and carried out assessments, including law preparation, one can now risk getting into situations that are not easily understood, because there is either a convention body outside Norway, or that there is a court that enters into it. Now the Storting with open eyes has incorporated the human rights conventions, and I have been for it, including the Children's Convention, but I feel the need to point out this issue in general. With regard to this matter, I think we have to wait for the legal proceedings before we go in and see what we might do. I can assure the representative that I am following the case. I believe, regardless of this single matter, that very much can be achieved to save children and young people through close and good cooperation between child protection and police, parents, school and everyone else who feels responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1319	"The government will introduce a green certificate market. There will be a boost for environmentally friendly energy production in Norway. But there may be doubts about the framework while the developers are waiting for the rules for such a market to be clarified. Minipower builders are uncertain whether they should start with expansion because they are uncertain whether they will lose investment before the market starts. What will the Council of State do to reduce the doubts of the builders in time for the market rules to be clarified?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1326	The Ministry is working on feedback to Stortinget in spring 2004 on the work on a common Norwegian-Swedish compulsory certification market. In this respect, the Ministry assesses the need for a transitional arrangement. There are several reasons why transitional arrangements may be applicable. In particular, it is unfortunate that some investors have informed that they are postponing investments because they fear to make decisions that involve falling outside the licence market. Last summer I asked Enova to address this issue, and this is an important basis for the assessments related to transitional arrangements. However, the Ministry has not completed its assessment of the issue. A lot of talk is that we should consider wind power and hydropower differently during the transitional period. I stress that a transitional regime should not prevent the opportunities to achieve the objectives set for the Energy Fund. Before Christmas last year, I sent out a press release to limit the uncertainty for the investors. Here I made the following clear: ‘Certificateable plants for electricity production starting after 1 January 2004 will be able to participate in a green certificate system, even if such a system had to be established after that date.’;» I attach great importance to the fact that any transition to a common Norwegian-Swedish compulsory certification market will not lead to the addition of the relevant construction plans on such power plants. I therefore hope that the press release of December 2003 can clarify for developers who are on concrete plans they want to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1340	I think it's nice and fun that the government is now betting on an energy market with a green certificate. I think he wants a great future within many power productions in Norway, but I have some questions in addition to the question that the Council of State answers. For the first time, with installations meeting the requirements of a certificate. Has the Ministry determined which type of facilities can be supported in a green market? Secondly, the Council of State answers that it will be possible to enter this market. Can you be sure that the specific planning is within the scope of the 2006 rules? I expect it's at the time when the department will introduce the green market. So to the third question, what does the Council of State mean by distinguishing between hydropower and wind power? There is also a question of the attribution level. How much effort can one give each kilowatt hour to develop such a market? The last question concerns protected watercourses and watercourses that you consider to protect. Do you want to be able to deal with projects that attach them without affecting the main watercourse in case they are encountered?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1355	There were many questions in a short time. The installations to be included in the certificate market have not yet been taken up. These are the questions that are now under assessment in the ministry, and here we will also have a dialogue with the Swedish authorities. As far as the deadline is concerned, I can confirm that it is in 2006 that we intend to do this. The third issue was wind power and hydropower. The difference is that there is today a support system for investments in wind power, while it is not for hydropower. There is therefore every reason to assume that there may be different arrangements for the transition of the two energy sources. With regard to the last issue, which is not directly related to the green certificate market, the Ministry will hopefully come back to this in the course of May. That's what we're working for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1368	Once again, I thank the Council of State for a good answer. I wonder if I can repeat the question of back-up: How much can the builders expect to be competitive? Finally, I would also like to ask: is it so to understand that in the present year one can safely plan so-called green installations for physical start-up after 1 January 2004, and that one will then be given full rights to comply with these rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1377	I am aware that I did not respond to all the questions from the representative, Gedrem. I'll do that now. As for the first question, whether it is safe to start, I can confirm that with the insurance I gave in the press release before Christmas, I decided that if a green certificate market is established, everyone who would then be entitled to be included in such a certificate market will be able to do so retroactively from 1 January 2004. This means that nobody loses anything to start an investment today. I hope that explains what has been the great uncertainty for some of the investors. In terms of the level of grants, or rather the price of the green certificates, there is also a question that is difficult to answer. For me, it is important that we establish such a green certificate market with the greatest possible predictability and stability. It is important for investors, and it is of course also important that the price of these certificates be such that it triggers investment. But something more specific about the price of the certificate is impossible to say about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1390	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘More and more major electricity consumers enter into a fixed-price agreement on electricity. Electric boilers with unpriority grid rentals destroy bioenergy and other alternative heating. This helps to further exacerbate the power situation, because the sum of fixed price and unpriority network rentals is lower than the district heating price based on e.g. bioenergy. What will the Council of State do to prevent this from happening?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1399	Norway is highly dependent on hydropower. In the winter of 2002–03, we saw that rainfall and production potential may vary considerably from year to year. This means that we need sufficient flexibility in our power system to ensure the balance between consumption and possible generation and transmission capacity. Sufficient flexibility helps to mitigate price increases and reduce the disadvantages of e.g.: stressed power situations. Further development of the flexibility of consumption is therefore important and is also a central theme in St.meld. No 18 for 2003-2004, on security of supply of electricity, etc., for treatment in the Storting. The consumption of electricity for electric motors will normally depend on the price relationship between electricity and other energy carriers. Electrical boilers with unpriority transmission have reduced network rental according to NVE regulations. These can be disabled if a difficult situation arises in the network. This means that flexibility can be achieved both by assessing the electricity price, including grid rental, against the price of other energy carriers, and by requiring consumers to disconnect in case of strenuous network situations. In this context, it would be positive if renewable energy sources could constitute the alternative source. However, I have registered that some boiler customers have concluded fixed-price agreements in force, which can help to make consumption less flexible, as Signe Eye points out. At the time of the conclusion of fixed-price agreements, the incentives to change energy carriers during periods of high electricity prices could be reduced. The issue raised by the representative Eye is also mentioned in St.meld. No 18 on security of supply. This Communication shows that Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate is now reviewing today’s unpriority transmission legislation for, among other things. to assess the extent to which current legislation facilitates increased flexibility and how this type of consumption can be managed in a demanding force situation. This review is scheduled to end during the first six months of this year. I would therefore like to wait for this work before taking a closer look at whether the framework for electric boilers is working properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1410	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that the Council of State agrees with me that this is a problem that makes the flexibility of the energy market not good enough. I would like to highlight a problem with reference to a concrete example, and this is a bioenergy project in the Eidsberg municipality in Østfold. There they plan district heating based on bioenergy from the grain recovery from the local mill on the Mysen. However, when offering district heating contracts to the larger consumers in the municipality, they are told that the normal district heating price is too high in relation to the prices such as: the municipality and county have electricity to their electric boilers, for they have concluded fixed-price agreements, and it is cheaper, also cheaper than the oil price. Then I have to ask the Council of State: I mean the Council of State, when no decision has been taken on this in St.meld. No 18 that you have to do something here, or do you want to keep waiting and seeing?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1419	The project that the representative Signe Eye describes is a good project, and I hope it can be realized. As far as district heating is concerned, I have, for my part, taken the initiative of a programme for increased infrastructure – a whole of 4 TWh, which is a significant investment – over five years. I hope that it will trigger several district heating systems. In other words, it is in the interests of the government and the government that we are able to clarify the issues that Signe Eye is addressing, and that work is already under way. I refer to what I said in my first answer, that this is an identified issue. It is mentioned in the Communication on security of supply. We are already considering measures to prevent the type of negative impact that could create uncertainty about investment in district heating. I want to await the NVE's review of this before I take a closer look at whether these frames are appropriate, or whether they need to be changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1428	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State refers to NVE. The initiatives in Eidsberg have addressed the issue of NVE and they respond that they can address the problem at the earliest in 2005. In the worst case, this project can then fall into disrepute and not be realized, because it is not the case that these initiators leave this on ice this year after year to see what the Government will come up with, and how to deal with it. That is why I have a call to the Council of State that he will at least get ahead of this case, that he can enter into and change these agreements quite quickly, so that no more projects – because there are more projects across the whole country and not just what I am now referring to – are at risk of not being realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1437	I can assure the representative eye that the government and this council actually have considerable attention and priority to the exploitation of more bioenergy. Here's a potential that's very close to being exploited. Therefore, it has also been a priority task to facilitate more district heating. I think we can say on a general basis that the investors in district heating can see that this government is facilitating that it will be beneficial and profitable, that there will be enough incentives to invest in district heating, and that in this respect we will look at all the issues that would make such investment unsafe. At the same time, I also ask for an understanding that once I have put a specialist directorate on the task of looking at possible slip effects and proposals for changes, I will have to wait for that investigation, so that the decision taken is stable and robust – and predictable for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1454	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1460	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: «Inside. S. No 240 for 2001-2002 on Norwegian climate policy, a unanimous Committee on Energy and the Environment says that the Government should start work as soon as possible on an overall plan for energy recovery based on the identification of the opportunities available in order to exploit recovered energy when industry, other actors and authorities are involved in commitment cooperation. What is the status of the Government's work on this plan?»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1469	Energy supply is facing significant challenges in the years to come. Therefore, the Government pursues an offensive policy for an environmentally friendly energy conversion, where increased production and use of environmentally friendly energy sources and energy-reduction is central. Waste heat from industry is an important source of energy, and energy recovery is therefore a measure of energy conversion. I would like to take this opportunity to recall that the Government has, on several occasions in recent years, clarified the strategy for the further investment in energy conversion, including energy recovery from industry. At the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2002, the Government presented its view that energy recovery from industry must be seen as other environmentally friendly energy measures and that any new energy recovery measures must therefore be assessed and launched within the framework of the Enova SF. This means that energy recovery projects need to be assessed against other projects contributing to the objective of an environmentally friendly conversion of energy supply. The Storting took the Government's presentation for information. In autumn 2002, Enova, in cooperation with the Land Association of Process Industries, prepared a report on the potential for more efficient energy use and production in the Norwegian process industry. The report presents results from analysis of four energy-heavy industries: wood processing, cement, ferro-alloys and aluminium. These industries represent a total of 56 pst., or 36 TWh, of total energy use in Norwegian industry. The report has been followed by Enova and has, among other things, as a result of the creation of a separate programme, ‘Energy use – energy-intensive industry’. The programme aims at improving the energy efficiency of work and processes and at measures for energy recovery and waste heat use. A prerequisite for all projects supported by Enova is that project owners must enter into commitments of cooperation with the quantification of energy targets in order to receive support. On the issue of the work on an overall energy recovery plan, I will again point out that the Stortinget so late as in the context of the revised national budget for 2002, took note of the fact that the energy recovery in industry will be ensured in the framework of the energy conversion and Enova. This has also been followed up by the Ministry, as Enova’s activities and priorities also show.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1487	I would like to thank you for your answer. I am glad that something has happened at all in relation to this issue and this question. The NVE has provided predictions that with a dry year we can lack 43 TWh in 2010. That's why there's an absolute need to use all the energy sources we can to improve the power balance here in the country. What I wonder most about now is what the Council of State can do in relation to follow-up in Enova and in relation to the problem where the Committee on Energy and the Environment has been unanimous. The Council of State has previously replied to the Advance Party that he should follow up the will of the Storting «to dot and dot». Then the question is, Will it be done in this case as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1496	It is a great pleasure for me to report that on this point I fully agree with the representative Rolf Terje Klungland. We will use all – I want to add environmentally friendly – energy sources to ensure energy supply. We have a significant underbalance, and the government has, as the representative of Klungland will be familiar with, provided a big message that is being processed here in the house now, and that is based on various measures, including energy conversion and energy recovery. I have followed the call of the Storting and explained in the revised national budget in 2002 what I believe is the most appropriate in ensuring that energy recovery from important industries, the four major industries to which I have already referred, is followed up, most appropriately through Enova. A specific programme does not seem to be appropriate now after Enova as an organisation has been established. They're doing a very good job. I believe that they also have the opportunity to assess how this should be followed up most appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1503	I think it is very important now that politicians start to act and stop talking about energy security and the willingness to generate new energy here in the country. I look forward to the work to be done in the energy supply beyond spring. I think one of the most important things for us as energy politicians is to make sure that we avoid situations like the one we had last winter, with high power prices, with industry that had to disconnect. I am pleased that the Council of State is at least positive in relation to this energy issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1510	Once again, I fully agree with what the representative, Mr Klungland, highlights. It is important that, in the future, we focus on all possible energy sources that can help secure energy supply. We have seen that the unilateral dependence on hydropower has created a situation that makes us very vulnerable to security of supply. Hydropower will still be the main pillar of Norwegian energy supply, but it is important that we at the same time secure ourselves in other ways. There is a significant factor in energy recovery, and there is a sensible management of energy resources as well. For my part, I look with great interest forward to Storting's processing of the wholesale communications on security of supply. I understand that the representative of Klungland has already been appointed as rapporteur of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1520	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1523	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Great concentrations of mercury have been found in the fishing area outside Fedje, where the German submarine U-864 is after the loss of war. There is a large amount of mercury on board the submarine, and mercury is one of the most dangerous pollutants. It has been pointed out that raising the submarine is the best solution to the problem. What is the status of averting a more serious pollution situation in the fishing areas around the submarine, and what will the Council of State do to remedy the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1532	In the autumn the Norwegian authorities received information from the submarine historical environment in Germany that the submarine U-864 had approx. 70 tonnes of metallic mercury as well as minor amounts of thallium and uranium oxide on board when it was lowered in 1945. The Coast Guard Authority decided to carry out a step-by-step and thorough investigation of the potential risk of contamination from the wreckage. The first two steps have been to investigate the presence of mercury in the wreckage and to investigate the possible absorption of mercury into living organisms in the area. In the autumn of 2003, soil sediment samples were taken at wrecked sites. Very high concentrations of mercury were detected in some of these. Fish were also sampled from breeding establishments in Fedje. No abnormally high levels of mercury were detected from the farms. In January of this year, wild fish and benthic animals were sampled in the area. Four different species of fish were sampled and crabs within a radius of 1 to 2 nautical miles from the wreck. The results for cod and sieving are consistent with those found in fish from the Barents Sea, while the level of mercury in Sweden is slightly higher. Uer is the most stationary of the four species sampled, and the result can therefore be interpreted as if there were a local source of contamination. However, all fishing teams had lower levels of mercury than the maximum level in the EEA territory. Therefore, the conclusion of the study is that it is safe to eat fish from this area. The analyses of crabs are also below the maximum level, with the exception of a tangential sample. The coastal works will carry out several analyses of crabs, so that the situation of this species in the area can be clarified. Food surveillance has been kept informed of the ongoing analytical work and will be provided with the results of the new analyses. Tests have also been carried out to clarify possible uranium contamination. The State radiation protection system has measured values from 10 samples on the seabed. None of the sediment samples contained abnormally high concentrations of uranium, and the samples indicate that the uranium in the sediments is from natural sources. The preliminary assessment of the coastal facility is that there appears to be no immediate risk of acute mercury contamination from the wreckage as long as this is kept calm. The results of the new analyses decided upon will be an important basis for the assessment of the action to be taken if appropriate. All relevant professional environments will be included in this assessment. The coastal works have carried out a comprehensive survey of the conditions surrounding the wreck and further investigations will be carried out. It has also decided to set up a group of experts on action in the field of mercury pollution. The task of the Group will be to make recommendations on further action. This shows that the Kystsverk takes the matter very seriously and does a thorough work on which I do not think there is any reason to change. It is important to have the best knowledge of this waste in order to make the right decisions in relation to further action, and this is what the Coastal Agency is doing. Finally, I would also like to remind you that the wreck of U-864 is a grave site for 73 people. It is therefore important that the wreck be treated with due respect in relation to any action taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1553	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I find that there is no answer to the question. There is no status and no plan for how this should be handled. Is this the same status for the other wars we have along the Norwegian coast? It starts to become a lot of them. Have any studies been carried out on the status of the other wrecks? Can the Councils answer that? I am aware that this is outside her area, but I ask now anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1560	It's clear that when there's such knowledge about wrecks of this kind that we have outside of Fedje, it's a big challenge. Clearly, with such large amounts of pollutants, it is a challenge. It is therefore important to make a proper assessment of the nature of the measures to be implemented. The fact that we have now analysed the environmental conditions of fish that are stationary, and fish that go over larger areas, that we know what that means for the fish, for our food, and that we also know what it means for the future of this area that is affected by these environmental challenges, is that knowledge we must have before we know how to proceed in dealing with this type of ship. Now we have this submarine concretely, but to the extent that there are other environmental bombs – to call it that – we have to analyze what the state is like and what is the best way to go about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1565	I thank you again for the answer. It's quite right, as the Council of State says, that it's important to keep a clean fish, and to do that, we have to have a clean sea. There can be no doubt in the market about what we have in Norway: we have clean fish. It is therefore urgent and important to have a plan for dealing with this problem. Because it is a problem, as I have said before, in many parts of Norway. But it's a problem that may not have been taken seriously until now. So I hope we get back to this case, for the last word is not said in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1572	I also believe that this is a very great challenge. Obviously, we have to take such things seriously. We're a coastal nation that depends on the resources we have in the sea, and we have to manage them in a good way. And when we have such coastal pollution problems – and what I know best, this submarine at Fedje – these have to be handled with caution. We don't know per. Today about raising the boat will create a bigger problem than handling it where it is. We first need to figure out how to get this environmental bomb that's there, either by raising or by covering the wreck, or whether there are other methods. That's what it's working on right now, so it's working on a plan of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1588	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1595	‘UN Maritime Organisation, IMO, Resolution A.931, imposes unconditionally on survivors of ship accidents the payment of compensation in the event of an accident and death. Through the media, there have been allegations that Norwegian companies conduct a practice contrary to this resolution. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Norway and Norwegian companies comply with this resolution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1602	In the event of an accident, it is important that injured and survivors are promptly and reasonably compensated for as they may require. The IMO resolution on shipowners’ contractual liability for personal injury and death is precisely based on this. It is in everyone's interest that the settlement of claims after ship accidents is concluded without excessive delays, so that all parties can move forward. It is not unusual that there is disagreement about an insurance settlement. If there is disagreement on the compensation following a ship's accident but agreement on individual parts, settlement of the part of which there is agreement shall not be withheld. In the majority of cases of compensation for personal injury or death following ship accidents, victims or survivors are settled promptly and fairly. The IMO Resolution sets out guidelines for the liability of shipowners under the working agreement between shipowners and employees for compensation in the event of personal injury and death and aims to ensure that shipowners have financial security for such compensation and to ensure that payment is made promptly and in full. Norway supports this resolution. In general, the Government attaches great importance to the development of a global regulatory framework for shipping through the work of the IMO and it is important to comply with the IMO Code. Norwegian ships are subject to Norwegian regulations, under the NIS Act. This legislation was in place before the adoption of the IMO Guidelines and was used as a model for the development of the Guidelines. Combined with the tariff agreements, the Norwegian rules give equivalent rights and protection to the international guidelines. In the case of foreign ships, our influence will primarily be through our continuous work in the IMO and the ILO.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1615	I thank you for your answer. I'm also very pleased that the Council of State says that from the Norwegian side we attach great importance to putting these international rules into place. Obviously, there are a lot of unprofessional actors in this area. If Norwegian riders have the possibility to claim, it is important that we get international standards. It is also so that within this industry there are many that are being exploited. There are many poor countries recruiting seafarers. What the claim has been made in this round is that the survivors of such accidents must sign that they declare all future claims for payment. As far as I am aware, this is contrary to this resolution. My question is, in fact, whether the Council of State will do anything to Norwegian companies operating in the insurance market to ensure that one also complies with the resolution in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1624	First of all, I have to say that we should be careful to comment on individual matters relating to non-Norway shipping companies and non-Norwegian ships. With regard to the IMO Conventions and those recommendations, they are implemented differently in Norwegian legislation. In this case, it is based on recommendations. My recommendation is that all companies involved in the maritime cluster should follow the ILO and IMO recommended rules. But it has developed what I would call an unfortunate practice in some international shipping companies, by concluding agreements between shipowners and employees' organisations that actually involve the possibility of having disclaimer clauses in respect of rights that can go beyond what is contractual. It is a reality that we have to deal with, but on the Norwegian side, we strongly recommend that we do not operate that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1633	We are talking here about people who are in a very weak negotiating situation with this industry. An IMO resolution is, in my view, the same as a UN resolution, and Norway is otherwise very keen on complying with UN resolutions. It's okay enough that this is a recommendation. I hope that the Council of State will confirm that Norway will work to make this a convention, so that it becomes an international law. When claims are made that Norwegian companies break these resolutions – which is the same as breaking a UN resolution – do not the Council of States then have an own responsibility to try to ensure that they do not? In my opinion, Norwegian authorities should have a hold to ensure that we have proper working conditions on board these boats, and ensure that they are given what they should have in accordance with this resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1645	I do not ignore the fact that you do not know all the elements involved in this case, as in many other cases where there is a conflict. No Norwegian company is therefore party to this case. It is a company which, through a Norwegian company, has insured against the settlement of death in the event of an accident, but the contract applies between the trade union of the employees and the shipping company, which has reinsured its relationship. As far as I understand, it is not that the insurance company, against the wishes of the shipowners, withholds settlement, but there is a conflict between the shipping company and the employees' organisations as to how large this should be, and at what time the money is to be paid. It means – given that it is correct, which I have reason to assume is – that a Norwegian company is in some way a third party to this, not that it is a matter of self-interest with the Norwegian insurance company to withhold something that the shipowner believes should be paid. I don't think that's the case. The problem is, therefore, that some international shipping companies have developed contracts, which are also accepted by trade unions in other countries, which are not in reality in line with what we have in the NIS Act and that of Norwegian ships.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1655	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The traffic accidents in Hedmark and Uppland cost between 2 and 3 billion last year. kr. The counties have 14 pst. of the national road network and 12 pst. of the works of traffic but receive only 3 pst. of the investment funds at the disposal of the public. State councils are often in the media on road safety and zero vision, it is good to play out, but will the Council of State help to change this division of appropriations in order to increase investment in areas with major road accidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1664	I refer to my answer to question 19 in the Question Time on Wednesday 28 January of this year from the representative Per Roar Bredvold regarding the accident load on E6 between Hamar and Lillehammer and other loaded sections. The Government and the State Road Administration are systematically working to increase road safety. Priority is given to measures to reduce the most serious accidents. This has been followed up in the 2004 budget, with priority being given to measures aimed at meeting accidents, road accidents and accidents involving vulnerable road users. In addition, road safety gains result from the route investment measures. An important measure to reduce the number of meeting accidents is to build physical divisions between driving directions. The Directorate-General for Roads is working on a proposal for a strategy for the use of semi-trailers on two- and three-field roads. In the priority between the routes concerned, the accident reduction effect of the measure, the lifetime of the measure, in relation to any subsequent extension to four-field roads and costs, will be carefully assessed. As part of the work of the National Transport Plan 2006-2015, the state road authority has identified approximately 2 700 km of highway with a particularly high accident load. This represents about 10 pst. of the total length of the national road. Work is under way to carry out road safety audits on these roads in order to identify measures that can help improve the accident situation. Simple and effective immediate action will be prioritised. In the context of the National Transport Plan 2006-2015, a more comprehensive presentation will be made of the Government’s road safety effort, including standard improvements and a faster and more coherent deployment of the most trafficked and accident-prone parts of the main road network. The government will expand highly trafficked tribal roads into four-field roads. The distribution of the economic framework for the tribal roads and other national road networks will be addressed in the context of the national transport plan in spring 2004. Finally, priority will be given to projects for the development of the pedigree network on a route which will be part of the work on the action programme, which will be dealt with locally in the spring of 2005 and set out in the autumn of 2005. The action programme for other national road networks will receive the same progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1679	It's good and good to have strategy, and it's clear that the Council of State has an incredibly long-term strategy. She realizes that there must be physical middle parts and that there must be four-field motorway. It is good that the Council of State has discovered. But as early as 1964, the Vegvesenet had planned a four-field highway from Oslo to Hadeland, with the middle parts. This was in 1964, it was up in Stortinget, and it was adopted. Why, then, will the Council of State start re-establishing a new strategy now, when the plans are already there – 40 years old? It's just to open a drawer and pull out the plans! The accidents at Rv 4 have very often had tragic outcomes last year — and it has also continued into this year with tragic accidents. That way the Vegvesen would build 40 years ago. Do we really need a new strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1686	It is that each of us has to deal with the annual budget frameworks we have. I also remember that Lofast, for example. was planned in the 30's already, so to believe that this is the project you have spent the longest time planning, is not correct. There are many wishes around the country about projects, and what I'm concerned about is that we get to solve the challenges we have on road safety every single day. That means that as long as we don't have four fields and middle parts where we want to, we have to deal with it, and we have to look for the most traffic-proof ways to move here in the country. This means that we need action – physical measures as well as attitudes, as well as trained skills in those who are going to drive a car on Norwegian roads. This is about everyone taking responsibility for the traffic situation we are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1693	I am very pleased that the Council of State confirms that she is interested in building out where there are major accidents, and where it is most possible to pick up in terms of road safety. It is clear that the expansion that has now been in Eastfold and Westfold in recent years has shown that there are four-field roads with middle parts that are the great advantage when you have to have the accident figures down – and so they have gone down in these areas. Is it finally confirmed that the Council will turn the road appropriations in the next period into the roads that have the most traffic, and where do we have the greatest accident load?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1700	The question I now got is really about the entire national transport plan, so I want to refer to this one, which comes in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1709	The question is as follows: ‘The regulation plan for the Iondal Tunnel in Hordaland triggers impact assessment requirements and the investigation has been carried out by the West Road Region of the State and was available in final and revised form on 19 December 2003. The investigation has 10 thematic reports. None of these were submitted when the County Committee and the County Committee discussed the matter and took a decision in January. In a protocol note, the County Committee requested the interim reports. Will the Council of State ensure that interim reports are made available to the public and to the hearing bodies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1716	All technical reports drawn up in the context of the impact assessment of road projects shall be public and thus accessible to all who wish to see the reports. However, it is not common to send the interim reports to all the hearing bodies. A derogation from publication is the cost report, where the details of the report are excluded from publication for the purposes of a subsequent bidding round. The cost estimate itself is, of course, part of the impact assessment report. With regard to this specific case, the Swedish Road Administration informed that some of the technical reports were not completed when the impact assessment was sent to the hearing. This is due to a lack of time. Based on local wishes from the county council and the municipalities concerned, the state road authority has set up a very tight progress plan on the plan project, with approved control plans for the project during the summer of 2004. Therefore, the Road Administration chose to send out the impact assessment report before the quality assurance of some of the technical reports was completed. The fact that some of the technical reports were not completed does not mean that the results were not available. The various subjects are discussed in the main report. This procedure was briefed on both the trade and county committees. All the technical reports for this impact assessment have now been completed and made available to the public and hearing bodies. Traffic analysis, which is the last and most comprehensive of the technical reports, is expected to be published on the Road Administration’s Internet site during this week. I would like to stress that the general rule is that all professional reports are completed and publicly available before such matters are put to public consultation and treatment in elected bodies. I would like to ask the State Road Administration to assume that this rule is being followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1729	I thank you for a reasonably clear and clarifying answer. However, I would remind you that when the impact study reveals that separate sub-theme reports have been drawn up on such important factors as road costs, traffic analysis and transport economy, I assume that the reports have just been prepared to ensure good quality in the main investigation itself. I assume that the Council of State, on the basis of what she has said, agrees that it is not satisfactory that the state political bodies that are going to decide on the main report should either wait for the interim reports or actually not get them at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1738	I would like to emphasise once again that my position on this is that all professional reports should be completed and publicly available before such matters are put to public consultation and treatment in elected bodies. I believe that this is important to ensure the quality of what has been done. For me, this is a signal that we need to review the progress plans we have in such processes at times. It is important that we ensure that the quality of the reports is good enough, that the decision-making framework is good enough – and that it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1745	In a process such as this, information from relevant projects is also used. In the context of the Jondal tunnel, a very relevant project is to refer to, namely the Folgefonn tunnel, which was built a short time ago, to the same mountain plateau, driven from two sides simultaneously by one private and one State driver. I have understood that the Road Directorate has determined in its own circular that final reports will be drawn up from major roadworks, assuming that this has been done for the Folgefonn tunnel. Does the Council of State consider such final reports to be internal and therefore not public? Does the Council believe that such reports should be used openly as an experience base, even when new impact assessments are being made for similar projects — even in the neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1754	I believe, as I initially said in my reply, that such reports should be publicly available. There may be elements in terms of costs, where there may be reason to be a little restrictive before having rounds of tenders – when to have them. But what goes on is experience, both in terms of the construction and design of tunnels and other physical and technical challenges, I think, should be public. It's important that the public get to know this, and that we can learn from it professionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1762	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘A collective solution between Lysaker and Fornebu has been an important prerequisite for the further development of the Fornebu area. There is now considerable uncertainty about progress in the development plans due to the Ministry’s requirement for further investigation. Will the Council of State contribute to a rapid clarification and follow up on the prior assumption of the State co-financing of a collective solution to Fornebu?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1771	I would like to stress that I think it is important to move on quickly to find a comprehensive and good collective solution for the Fornebu area. I would therefore like to contribute to a rapid clarification. At the same time, it is important to ensure a sound decision-making basis for the use of State resources for the project. Therefore, in a letter dated 3 December last year, I asked Akershu County Council for an overall statement of case and a recommendation as to which solution is considered to be the best regionally. On this basis, there is now a dialogue between the Ministry of Transport and Akershu County as a basis for further progress in the matter. I also show that it was granted 2 million. kr for further planning of the Fornebu track over the State budget of the year. However, the size has not taken a decision on the final collective solution for the Fornebu area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1782	I thank you for the answer, although I do not think it was uplifting. As I stressed in my question, I believe that a collective solution is absolutely essential for the expansion that will take place at Fornebu, with 6,000 homes and 15 000 jobs. The state itself has been an important driver for high levels of exploitation. There have always been two important premises in the planning process, which have been going on for many years. One is that Akershu County Municipality should be responsible for the plan and in cooperation with, inter alia: Mr Oslo and Mr Bærum have to put forward a plan-making proposal. The council should now have received on the table a letter from the Municipality of Oslo, Akershus County Municipality and the municipality of Bærum, which shows that they agree on a solution related to the Autobahn. Then it should be in place. The second is State cofinancing. It did not even mention the Council of State in its reply. It is the promise that is absolutely crucial in relation to a financing solution for a runway operation of the Fornebu area, in addition to what is to lie there as a landowner’s contribution. I think that the intervention of the Minister of Transport, what she has said in the media, has largely contributed to the uncertainty and uncertainty as to what is really the basis of the promises made by the State in the planning process. I then ask the Council of State directly: can the Council of State say here and now that she is standing by the promise that the State has made, and that, among other things. was it included in letters from the Ministry in 2001 and in the National Transport Plan for the current period?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1795	It is true that the government of Stoltenberg promised up to 600 million. kr for this solution in the autumn of 2001. This we have said that we will follow up. In order for us to be able to go in with these funds, a quality assurance is required for this project. We have asked Akershu Municipality to get some reviews and facts on the table. We have received an answer, but we have not received an answer to what we are asking for. But one step further in this process has been taken through the agreement of the Municipality of Oslo and the municipality of Bærum on solutions. I have also requested this. That has now finally been answered, and I am very pleased about that. This means that the process has progressed a long way. Then the ministry is also interested in contributing, in order to get on the table the necessary assessments that need to be made when we are going to spend so much money on a project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1802	I think the other response of the Council of State was more positive. I understand that the Ministry of Transport and the Government will ensure the quality of the project. Now they've been in this planning process in many contexts along the way. I am pleased that the Council of State stresses that she will follow up the promise that she will contribute up to 600 million. kr to a path solution for Fornebu. So the council says she'll contribute to a quick clarification. I'm glad. I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of the time perspective in relation to a quick clarification, because I understand that if one is to have the ability to coordinate track management to Fornebu with, among other things. a development of Lysaker station linked to the double-track Skøyen — Asker, it will be absolutely essential — and economically viable — to coordinate the two development processes. My question is therefore: When does the Council of State assume that she can take a decision on this and follow it up with proposals for appropriations also from Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1813	It is absolutely right that it is important to see the Fornebu solution in connection with Lysaker station. We'll take that into account when we're dealing with both of them. There has also been great freedom for Akershu County to find a collective solution in the case of Fornebu. However, we have to make demands when we use money from the state. When we're willing to add up to 600 million. In this project, we require that we know what the money goes to, and that we know that it is a good and sensible project. We haven't finished that job yet – we don't have any facts on the table. But we have to have a good collective solution, and that's why we all have the same intention of doing this. Earlier today, we have had too fast progress, and we feel that we have had too poor a political, local, etc. basis for decision-making. I can refer to a number of other processes, where we've been pressured so much in time that we've risked getting into solutions that maybe haven't been the best. That's why I think we need a good collective solution for Fornebu, and we need to have a right pace in the process. That's why I can't promise you a date.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1823	I am delighted to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Despite repeated attempts, Agder Police District has failed to expel three notoriously criminal foreigners. One is, for example, convicted in criminal proceedings nine times. The crimes qualify individually for expulsion, but the UDI decided that they would stay in Norway. Will the Council of State take action to facilitate the detection of notoriously criminal foreigners?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1832	Let me start this answer that I have started many answers to questions in the foreign field earlier. I know that the representative Simonsen is aware that the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department are dealing with expulsion cases and other matters under the Foreign Affairs Act. Neither the department nor I have the opportunity to intervene in dealing with such matters. I have full confidence that the directorate and the company will handle the relevant facts properly in today's law. That means I don't want to go into an exemplification based on individual things. On the other hand, I would like to say a little about what is our general work in relation to expulsion rules. The expulsion rules are such that foreigners who are convicted of crimes with a certain lower penalties can be expelled. However, it is also a condition that the expulsion does not constitute a disproportionate measure to the foreigner himself or his family. The criminal offence and its severity should therefore be weighed against an assessment of its relationship with Norway. Points of emphasis in this assessment include, inter alia: whether the foreigner has come to Norway at an early age, how long the foreigner has lived in Norway, whether the foreigner has a spouse, child or other family in Norway with which they are in contact, whether expulsion will lead to family splits and what relationship the foreigner has with the home country. There are some special constraints. In cases where the foreigner is born in Norway, and later has a permanent residence here, he/she cannot be expelled under the law. If the foreigner came to Norway as a child and has lived for a long time in Norway, the seriousness of the criminal offence(s) for which he is convicted will have to be significant before the foreigner reacts to expulsion. One of the reasons for this is that Norwegian society has to take greater responsibility for its criminal career when the foreigner has had his or her childhood in Norway. Norwegian authorities also have obligations under international rules in this area, including in particular: The European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is now incorporated into Norwegian law. This proportionality assessment is now being carried out by the Ministry. It is currently not regulated. We are working on an attempt to change the foreign regulation, which means that we should also make a regulation with clear regulations – proportionality assessments. The reason for this is that we are working to improve the situation of people who are subjected to violence and harassment by foreigners who are assessed. Among other things, the proportionality assessment here may be wrong in relation to those who are victims. Therefore, the proportionality assessment will focus on whether the foreigner poses a threat to anyone in Norway. The proposal will be sent to the hearing in a short time. In the light of the same considerations, the Government has also proposed to lower the lower penalty framework for expulsion. It's a proposal that's been out for consultation. This will include, inter alia: facilitate the expulsion of aliens convicted of a restraining order and of physical insults, which are associated with much family violence. We will follow up on these matters in an odelstingsproposition that will be sent to Stortinget during the spring. With regard to the issue of repeated infringements, this will also be regulated in relation to the proportionality assessment. I want to see if it's properly regulated in the proportionality assessment regulation that we're now dealing with. But we cannot escape the fact that some people – either because they were born here, but they don't have Norwegian citizenship, or because they have lived here for a long time – could actually have been involved in significant criminal activity without us being able to expel them. It can be very clear in border countries in terms of international conventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1847	We know this problem. Often, there are notoriously criminal foreigners who can be expelled, but who have long lived in Norway and are married to Norwegian girls. UDI then believes that they have sufficient links with Norway so that they can continue to live here and commit criminal acts. In my opinion, it is entirely possible to live in other countries – there are actually quite a number of people who do. It must be possible for these criminal foreigners to take their families to their countries of origin if they are expelled and still want to be related to their families. They can, for example, go back to Morocco and bring the families. What I want is a clear signal from the political leadership of the UDI that it is, in principle, unacceptable that notorious criminals are allowed to operate freely in our country when they have the opportunity to expel them, even though they may be married and have lived in Norway for a long time. When the possibility of expulsion is present, Norwegian communities will be served by expulsion. Although the decision is taken by the UDI, political signals from political leadership are of course useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1856	This is an area where political signals are not to be used. That's what this hall has decided. This shall be regulated in the form of regulations and laws. So that's why we're working to regulate which assessments UDI should actually do. I disagree with the representative Jan Simonsen about automatic expulsion, and I know that from many previous debates. So you have to take into account the others that are also affected by an expulsion, for example. have children’s rights and rights of contact. So we have a lot of cases where we show people who have been involved in serious criminal activity, but who have family and children, precisely on the basis of the principle that the family can be reunited in other countries under the European Convention on Human Rights. There will be an assessment of the gravity of what you do, the closeness of your contact with Norwegian society, and, if necessary, the closeness of your contact with your children. Particular attention is paid to the children in these assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1865	I just notice there's a disagreement here. These are cases where the police have wanted these people expelled. There are people who have been imprisoned nine times in Norway and who are thus notorious criminals. They can be reunited with their families and take care of their children by living in countries other than Norway. I hope that the regulations you are now working on become more stringent. But with the attitude of the Council of State, there may not be much hope of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1872	So, as I said, we're going to step up the deportation requirements in the law. Of course, it will also be reflected more strongly in relation to the assessments UDI has to make on the proportionality bit. However, I would like to stress that I cannot take a position on the claims that Jan Simonsen now makes regarding these individual issues. First of all, the Storting has passed a law in which individual cases are not dealt with politically. The second is that I have no knowledge of either refuting or verifying the claims made by Jan Simonsen in relation to these individual matters. I also don't know anything about family relationships, what relationship they have, and I can't go into an assessment of whether it would have been easy for them to reunite in another country or not. We'll probably have a discussion about this here in Stortinget, because it's among other things. suggested that those who come to the country before they reach the age of 14 years, i.e. before the criminal deputies, should not be deportable at all. It's an assessment that's now being made by the law commission, so I think we're going back to legal regulation in this area in a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1885	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment: «In budget entry. S. No 8 for 2003-2004 the Economic and Social Committee pointed out in particular that the run-off situation of Eastfold has created major problems for the watercourses and that priority should be given to the county in its efforts to prevent and reduce run-off. The Morsa project needs resources to achieve the regulatory objectives of water quality. What state instruments are planned by the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1894	There are some watercourses in Eastfold that have problems with overfertilisation. Measures to achieve the desired water quality must be implemented in these watercourses. This is also the case in the Hobøl-Vansjövastre, where important work is being done through the Morsa project to reduce pollution. I am very concerned that this work will succeed. The Ministry of the Environment has therefore for several years provided financial support for reducing the pollution of the Hobøl-Vansjössträge over the grant item for overall water management. For the 2004 government budget, this budget line was included in the framework grant in the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which the Storting had no comments on. The main objective of the government with the inclusion of earmarked grants in the framework grant is, as is known, to ensure greater freedom of action for the local government sector. The two main sources of pollution problems in the Hobøl-Vansjössläge are agricultural activities and sewage discharges from separate sewage treatment plants. Several measures have already been implemented to improve water quality, both in relation to sewage emissions and in agriculture. With regard to the control of emissions from separate waste facilities, municipalities have the power to impose the necessary requirements. As regards environmental measures in agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture has explained it in his answer to question 8, from May Hansen, earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1905	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That's absolutely right, and it's also gratifying that the Council of State wants to follow up the Morsa project. We have come a long way, but we have to get far further behind this project in order to get down to self-cleaning in terms of emissions, for example. of phosphorus. All political parties are committed to the polluter-pays principle. However, it is clear that the agricultural policy followed by the 1970s channelling decision will stimulate the development of the central East through subsidies and aid schemes for the uniform cultivation of cereals. That makes us get huge emissions of nitrogen and phosphorus. One can therefore say that the State has an indirect responsibility. We know that there are still huge emissions, and that for example. in Lake Water is algal growth, toxic blue green algae. That development will be irreversible for decades before we see improvements, if you don't go a little more actively to work. Doesn't the Council of State mean that it is necessary to take greater responsibility to save Eastfold's ruined watercourses, including the Hobøl-Vansjössträge?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1916	As I said in my first answer, the Minister of Agriculture has answered the same question earlier today. He also established the sectoral responsibilities of primary industries and agriculture in relation to the run-offs from agriculture. Much has also been done in agriculture in recent years to limit these run-offs in relation to both bottom tightness, side densities and other types of drainage. Like the representative Hedstrøm, I am very concerned that the water lake is still to be used as a drinking water source and is a recreational and open-air area. I'm familiar with the Morsa project, I've been there myself, and I know they're doing an innmari good job. At the same time, I am concerned that the polluter-pays principle should underpin the efforts to reduce pollution in the Hobøl-Vansjö watercourse. The grant granted by the Ministry of the Environment has now been incorporated into the framework grant for municipalities, which the Stortinget did not oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1923	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. I've been given an overview of the development of county quotas in terms of funds for specific environmental measures and territorial measures, and they haven't increased in the last four years, to say that. Although agriculture is now doing something, as the Council of State stated, should there not be more drastic measures and stronger instruments to do so? If it had been an enterprise that had polluted as agriculture does, it would have been about environmental crime. Is it not soon a climate on the part of the Ministry to use stronger instruments to bring this to a happy end?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1932	The Ministry of Agriculture must respond to its sectoral responsibilities, as the Minister of Agriculture has done in a good way earlier today. So to my sector responsibility, as far as the drain side is concerned, it's the scattered settlement that primarily contributes to the poor water quality in the watercourse. These are emissions from cabins, individual households and smaller house clusters. It is the municipality that is responsible for and has the authority to provide the necessary instructions for the purification of such emissions. We have been informed that the municipality has taken the necessary decisions for this piece. There is nothing to suggest that links to municipal sewerage or the construction of separate sewerage facilities are more expensive here than in other comparable regions of the country. As regards the aid granted to this area for environmental measures, it may seem that it has fallen as this money has been raised by the Ministry of the Environment and transferred to the Ministry of Local Affairs as a framework grant, to which the Stortinget had no counter-representation. But now it is up to the municipalities and the various sectors, including agriculture, which the representative also pointed out correctly, to take this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1939	That being the case, it is no. 1 completed on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-11.ana.ud831e1950	There is no record.
