ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e16	Before we start dealing with case No. 8, the representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, asked for the floor to draw attention to a matter relating to voting in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e22	In the context of voting on the budget of the Judicial Committee, the Workers’ Party and the SV were injured in order not to provide a explanation of vote related to the Committee’s recommendation for VII, which is based on the future radio link for the emergency and emergency seats. It is within the framework, so that it was impossible for us for votering technical reasons to vote for it. But it is clear that of course a unanimous committee supports a future radio link for the emergency and emergency seats. We need to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e27	That explanation of vote is then recorded for history.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e40	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group, and five lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e51	Let me first fix two errors in the present setting. This applies to Chapter 1720 Joint management and command equipment. That's where you forgot to take out the $10 million. kr withdrawn from the budget of the Financial Committee. That means that the number is going to be 1,268,558 000 -- if I'm going to be able to read it correctly. The second applies to Chapter 1795, entry 60. That's going to be 19.5 million. kr and not 29,5 mill. kr. It is an offensive and forward-looking budget for the defence that I am now presenting to the Stortinget on behalf of the Committee, a budget in which both the proposition and the suspension are marked by the fact that this is a continuation of the examination of the 2005-2008 long-term plan, discussed in the Stortinget on 10 June this year. At the same time, it is gratifying that the majority of the main lines of the defence budget are wider than before in the current magnification period, which I hope we will continue with. It is a citizen of stability and ensures the necessary parliamentary basis for the structural changes that are a prerequisite for a timely defence, a defence that can ensure security for Norwegian citizens and for Norwegian territory, enforce our sovereignty, tackle and safeguard Norwegian interests at a time when the risk picture is diffuse and vulnerable. Defence, in cooperation with civil protection and our allies, must be prepared for the unknown. Our strengths must be interest, robust and mobile, and we must put quality in the high-seat. Both the proposition and the setting also bear the mark of the security policy backbone of our reform of defence. A unanimous committee acknowledges that globalisation has led to interdependence between countries and regions, with reduced importance of geographical distance and extensive changes in conditions, both within and between countries. The Committee also stresses that active peacekeeping and security policy will be to ensure a stronger international legal order with broader governance instruments in the global society than we have today. The Committee attaches crucial importance here to the UN as a global and overall body for security policy. An important backbone of our defence and security policy is, of course, the development of Europe, the changes in transatlantic relations and the extension of NATO. Tomorrow, the Stortinget will have a first discussion of a possible participation in a Nordic response group linked to the EU Battle Groups. Today's Evening Post, we can read that from today on, the EU is responsible for peace operations in Bosnia with a force of 7 000 men. This is happening within the Berlin Plus Agreement, that is, NATO is transferring forces to the EU command. That is, many of the soldiers just change hats and flags on their arms, to refer to the Evening Post. The mission has great symbolic value, says a political expert at the Centre for European Reform in London. Norway has 13 men in the force, we'll believe the Evening Post. We could maybe let it sink a little bit into us that we have 13 men in a force of 7,000 in Bosnia. The geopolitical and security position of Norway gives us cause for concern. The development of EU defence and security policy takes place by storm. Here we are banished on time, including when Europe is discussing the development and production of future defence material. We are now without involvement in the debate on the design of security policy on our own continent, perhaps with less influence in NATO than non-members Sweden and Finland, who actually participate in EU meetings prior to NATO meetings. NATO remains for us the cornerstone of Norwegian defence and security policy, it says itself in the situation we are in, and it is in our interest that the transatlantic ties are strengthened. In order to have political authority, a defence alliance must have military facilities and be relevant to defence policy challenges. The decisions taken at the NATO Summit two years ago — on a division of labour in Europe by major purchases of defence equipment — are interesting here, not least for a small country such as Norway. Large defence investments are becoming increasingly expensive. For Norway, there is in particular the renewal of the Air Force Air Force fleet that will make a major contribution to the defence budgets. It is not until 2008 that Norway will make a final decision on whether to buy new fighter aircraft, whether to buy them in cooperation with other countries – some aircraft each – or alone, and which aircraft we will then buy. The purchase of a fighter aircraft will necessarily be linked to the safety framework conditions we have in 2008–2010. It is necessary to take into account the tasks of the Norwegian defence and, in particular, the economic situation. It is an interesting alternative that small countries such as Norway, Denmark and the Netherlands, for example: buys fighter aircraft with one third each. Another possibility is that at that time we have expanded North European security cooperation, including Sweden and Finland. Who knows what kind of security reality we have in our neighbourhoods in six years? It is a clear prerequisite for such major purchases that Norwegian industry is given concrete assignments in development and production. It concerns fighter aircraft, in the case of transport aircraft. Norwegian industry will need financial support for qualification programmes and guarantees for equipment and programme investments. There is once again a prerequisite for Norwegian industry to have a level playing field with other countries’ businesses. A majority of the Committee emphasises that the Norwegian defence industry is an important part of the country’s overall preparedness and must be involved in demanding tasks leading to innovation, establishment and jobs. When we discussed the long-term plan in June, we asked the Ministry of Defence to take an initiative towards the defence industry and the departments concerned to assess measures for the positive development of the Norwegian defence industry. The majority believe that this is urgent. New threat images have focused on widespread social security. Defence and security policy today means safeguarding the security of the civilian population and ensuring central social functions, as well as important infrastructure against attacks and damage, although the existence of the state is not threatened, but where the territorial integrity and political sovereignty of the state are nevertheless challenged – without being a matter of military attack in a traditional sense. Fragmentation, deregulation and privatisation of defence support functions can represent a threat to social security, especially in a modern technological society. During the examination of the long-term plan, a broad majority advocated clear demarcations against privatisation and exclusion. It has to be demonstrated that exclusion provides more cost-effective and better services for users and that it provides higher quality overall. Preparedness and security of supply must be given decisive importance. The necessary competences must be ensured and socio-economic considerations given priority. This is now repeated in the budget setting. In addition, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have joined forces on even clearer warnings against privatisation, which we believe could threaten vital social interests and social security. I also refer to the treatment of the social security report in this Chamber last Tuesday. In two cases, the Workers' Party considers that the government parties are in fact breaking the June settlement: by selecting a OPS solution for the Haakonsvermung dock as their primary position, and splitting the six Heavy Maintenance workshops in the FLO into smaller and possibly private companies. In my opinion, there is no mandate from Stortinget to split Heavy Maintenance into smaller companies and privatise them. These are the workshops in Ramsund, Bjerkvik, Haakonsvern, Horten, Trandum and Kjeller that should be moved to Gardermoen. I assume that the dock will at some point come to Stortinget as my own construction case, and that the final handling of the FLO/Tungt Maintenance will also be presented to us as a case in an appropriate manner when the negotiations between the parties have come to an end and an organisational structure are clearly negotiated. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 2 by the Labour Party and the Centre Party and proposal No Four, from the Workers' Party. This recommends the budgeting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e95	The representative of Marit Nybakk has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e100	Despite the considerable consensus to which the chairperson of the committee refers, there are aspects of the Workers' Party's alternative budget which give cause for concern. In particular, I would refer to the Labour Party's proposal to cut 200 million. kr to Regionfelt Eastland. It is so dramatic that it will have very far-reaching and far-reaching consequences for the 2005 regional area. The cost framework for such a cut would be, conservatively estimated, 100 million. kr. It would not be possible to use the field in 2005, as planned, which would mean that the Army had to carry out its exercises in North Norway, with a large increase in costs, and that would result in liability in relation to contracts concluded, compensation to owners, etc. How can the Workers' Party, with the history of Hedmark Workers' Party in relation to the region field, introduce such a dramatic cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e107	I maintain that the Workers' Party insists that the Regionfelt Eastland should be completed and put into service. In the financial position, the Workers' Party went in to push $200 million. kr from the investments in the region area – well to notice pushing them out a little in time, not cutting them. Overall, if I remember correctly, this is $364 million budget. kr for 2005. The concession case is still in the Ministry of the Environment, and the Workers' Party believes that this was fully justified in the current situation. This proposal was now put to the vote when the Committee on Budgets considered its budgetary position here in the Chamber. What the Workers' Party has now proposed is that it is only 40 million. kr it must be pushed on, and that money must go to complete the workshop at Rena – something the representative Hernæs is not in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e114	In the case of Norwegian fighter aircraft purchases in a few years, the discussion has gone high and low on which brand to buy, whether it be from the United States or from Europe, or perhaps from Sweden. There has also been a strong debate on the cooperation Norway has with the United States with a total framework of nearly DKK 1 billion, and not least Norwegian repurchase, is a sensible use of funds. The last sentence from the representative Marit Nybakk came on TV this day: that Norway might not at all buy fighter aircraft, but rather cooperate with neighbouring countries on this type of service. Did the representative really think that Norway, with its long coastline, our natural resources, including our oil and fish bodies, should not have its own aircraft with fighter aircraft, so that we can intercept a possible hostile terrorist attack that could threaten us and our interests? For the Progress Party, it's totally inappropriate not to be able to have your own aircraft with the resources to ensure our safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e121	Since I have not seen the TV entry myself and do not know which part of the interview I was quoted, I can only repeat what I said from the pulpit here in my main post. It is in 2008 that we are going to take a stand as to whether we are going to buy new fighter aircraft, and which fighter aircraft we are going to buy. It is also when we have to take a stand whether we are going to buy all the planes ourselves, or whether we have to buy together with Denmark and the Netherlands, or perhaps in an extended North European cooperation. I think in that context, we also need to assess the total air fleet of the Air Force, and see if we're going to have our own transport aircraft, or if we're going to lease transport aircraft from a NATO pool. All of this must take time to evaluate thoroughly from the point of view of security policy and economic considerations. Then I would like to emphasise as much as I can, that from our point of view it is essential that the Norwegian industry participates in both development, innovation and production of new fighter aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e130	In a comment in this setting, the majority, with the exception of SV, write the following: ‘We need a payroll system adapted to today’s challenges and modern defence. Limiting personnel costs is essential for us to succeed in the ongoing modernisation of defence. In this context, the majority have noted that the Ministry has started an assessment of the overall system of personnel and wages in the Defence, in particular related to a review of variable supplements. The majority are aware that this is contractual and needs to be amended in cooperation with the employee organisations.» My question is: Does the representative Nybakk think that a change in the overall personnel and salary system in the Defence will limit the personnel costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e140	It's probably a little dependent on how many hired consultants the defense pulls on as well. As the representative of Bjørklund is well aware – and on whom he has also been – the Committee is very restrictive in allowing this relocation of the use of private consultants, the constant use of consultants, in part also people who have been employed in the defence in the past and who have final packages. I think there might be reason to go through the pay system, for several reasons. This does not mean limiting the salaries of individual employees, but the pay system may have to have a different device. I think that some of these supplements might belong to a different time, and that you'd rather increase your basic salary and have fewer supplements. But it is through negotiations between the parties, between the defence staff and the employees' organisations that the final solution to this need to be found.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e147	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e151	The Minister of Defence is in charge of a giant shift that's on course. The big business's ambitious migration targets for the period 2001–2005 are getting off the ground in an impressive way. I think it's worth saying thank you to both the Defence's political leadership, to the military management and to all the defense employees for joining this impressive job. Nevertheless, there are debates that we are not doing enough, and that we are in the process of getting a weakened defence in Norway, I would like to highlight with a slightly different approach than the many of those who are concerned with the defence of the past have. To illustrate what the transition is about, I would like to make a small comparison of the situation in Defence in 2001 with the current situation. During Stortinget's first phase of the radical transformation of defence in 2001, then Minister of Defence Bjørn Tore Godal gave the following description of reality: ‘Today, we spend too much money on a defense that does not increase security, but where misuse of money too often leads us to put aircraft on the ground, add ships to berths and toes on our stocks. In relatively few years – if we don't do anything about it [[...]] [[...]] Today, a little over three years later, the Defense Produces Real Defense, because both the political majority and not least the Defense itself have shown a willingness to do something about it. Today the situation is that the Naval Defense sails, the Air Force flies, the Army operates, and the HV is in a very extensive efficiency situation. Without conversion, or if the conversion had slowed down, the situation would be different. In addition to the fact that thanks to the conversion we have an operational defence, we have a qualitatively far better defence than we had before the conversion was started. I'd like to give you some examples of this. Before Kosovo, our fighter planes did not have the necessary technical devices to operate at night. Hunter aircraft have now also improved their ability to protect themselves, and they have been given improved ground-capacity air, including important target lighting equipment. Today, the F-16 aircraft are significantly upgraded and maintained at a high level. It was proven in Afghanistan. In addition, hunters’ aircraft personnel have gained useful operational experience. We've just got a better quality air defence. After NATO's operation against Milosevic in 1999, we took a hard time setting up the force that we had reported as our contribution to KFOR. Only nearly three months after KFOR was fully deployed in the operating area, the Norwegian battalion team deployed. When the force finally reached Kosovo, the head of KFOR forces, General Sir Mike Jackson, must have said: 'What did you say so long? Have you been walking?» The message was of course a crass criticism of Norway's military ability to deliver, wrapped in British substatement. Deployment both to Iraq and to Afghanistan clearly shows that in recent years the defence has taken a quantum leap in response and delivery capabilities. Furthermore, today we are in the process of getting one of the most modern marines of the alliance. The world's fastest marine vessel, the missile torpedo boat Skjold, is now produced by Umoe Mandal, and the first of the five frigates ordered is seared and baptized. Even the leader of the Association of Norwegian Officers, Peter Andre Moe – who has participated in the long struggle to remove not only the Minister of Defence but also the head of defence and, if I have understood correctly, significant parts of the Storting Defence Committee, as well as notifying legal action on the Storting – has expressed admiration for the successful transition. I feel here the need to quote him, but promise that this will not become a habit. In VG 27 October he calls the conversion of the Defense ‘the most successful conversion in the history of the Norwegian public sector’. One of the reasons the conversion has been as successful as it has been is that there has been a relatively broad consensus in this Chamber on the need to provide the defence with the necessary means. I hope the chairman of the committee is right when she rejoices that this consensus now seems to be wider. But I have to admit that everything we see is no longer an exclusive desire. Several parties have now tried in their alternative budgets to cut some drastically in the defence appropriations. That SV is proposing to cut the defence appropriations is nothing new. This time they cut “only” NOK 3 billion. I don't know why they have moderated this time with almost a few billion compared to previous years. Possibly this is an SV trying to show up as a government manager. Well, I think most people realize that a cut of NOK 3 billion in the Defence Budget is anything but responsible. More disturbing is the fact that both the Workers' Party and the Centre are proposing serious cuts. The center party is proposing to cut 500 million. NOK, while the Workers' Party proposes to cut 300 million. kr. Both of these parties propose to cut roughly in the Eastern region. The government's proposed consumption in the regional field is 380 million. Mr President, I would like to thank the majority, thanks to the Progress Party. The Labour Party proposes to cut 200 million in its alternative budget. kr. Such a reduction in 2005 would entail significant additional costs for the defence, e.g.: for the training and compensation of contracts concluded, and delay the completion by at least one year. The Workers' Party and the Center Party here propose would tear away the foundation of the Army's operations in the Østerdalen. The Workers' Party will strike the nail in the coffin of the Army's operational operations in the Østerdalen. The Labour Party, on the other hand, wants to spend more money on it, is the workshop at Rena. So the army's tanks aren't supposed to train, they're supposed to be in the workshop! Alternatively, the army's operational operations, which are currently in the Østerdalen, must be moved to Troms. In addition, the Workers' Party has proposed cutting 100 million. kr in operation. It's open where this cut is to be inserted. To cut it flat, 33 million. kr per. defence sector – 33 million. SEK less to sailing day, 33 million. NOK less to flight hours and 33 million. kr less for operations in the Army? I would like to remind you that these were the sizes we talked about when there seemed to be a time when there was a danger that parts of the navy would stay at berth more than what was desirable. It is difficult to see that the Workers' Party is following up the defence settlement from the last spring when they present such cut proposals in its alternative budget, and the accusations made by the committee leader that the Right violates parts of the agreement are completely unfounded. These are serious signals of what a socialist government could mean for defence, especially when all three possible government parties seem to agree that it should be cut in defense. The average of the three parties' cut proposals is 1,267 million. kr. In view of this, it is understandable that Nybakk has already begun to suggest in the media that Norway may not have its own air defence. If I'm allowed, I'll recommend to the committee leader that she watch the recording of what she herself said on TV 2. A majority of the Storting supports the achievement of an OPS solution for the dry dock on Haacon protection. The right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have pointed out in the vote that a OPS solution opens up so that by private funding a larger and, if necessary, more expensive dock can be achieved. The public share of the dock is assumed to be less than 235 million. kr. An OPS solution could provide a greater capacity and greater customer base dock. In this way, one can also contribute to securing jobs in Haacon protection. It is surprising that the Workers' Party does not want such a solution. In particular, when it appears that the main argument against an OPS solution to Haacon protection is that these ‘members face major challenges related to the introduction of private operators with commercial intentions in the base field’. Civil actors are already on the base. Moreover, it is clear that both military and civil staff, as well as private tenants, must of course have the necessary security clearances. Even more strangely, the Workers' Party's attempt to raise safety arguments against civil operators on Haacon protection when they state in the same setting that a OPS solution to Rena will be completely OK. Clearly, the view of the Labour Party is not entirely in the spirit of principle. With these comments, I would like to address the proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party that has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e206	The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, has addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e211	Right-wingers like to make themselves a party to the business community, but the representative did not mention the defence industry in one word. Taxlets alone do not provide a thriving business. The defence industry is considerable in many places in the country. I wonder why the Right could not go into the repurchasing note for future material acquisitions. Does not the Right believe that the defence industry is a technological driver and that high-tech jobs are important for preparedness? In addition, the defence industry gives technology to the civil. Nor does the right support a forum for development contracts between industry and authorities. Is there a new policy Right now leading, against repurchase, against the defence industry in Norway? Are we going to be totally dependent on purchases from other countries? I would like the representative from the Right to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e220	When the defence committee is debating, it may be natural to use the old technique that attack is the best defense. So it's not the right that has moved away from the common comments we had with the Working Party in the context of the long-term message. It's the Workers' Party that obviously feels a need to move towards the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. We underlined in the setting of the long-term message that “operational needs must be controlling.” We continued: ‘In addition, security policy relevance, alignment and cost-effectiveness are important in the context of major material purchases. In addition, Norwegian research and development opportunities and industrial conditions are of importance. When major purchases or development agreements are made internationally, repurchasing regimes, or other safeguards for a fair industrial return, will be decisive.’;» These were our common comments in the setting of the long-term message.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e234	Right-wing supporters of, and members of, a so-called development project with Lockheed Martin, despite the fact that so far it has not given Norwegian industry anything, and no jobs. The entire project is strongly criticised by both the NHO and the Joint Alliance. And then I wonder, why would the Right continue a project that costs us over 100 million? kr a year, but that might not give us any things back?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e239	The reason is, of course, that the option of not participating in development projects with Lockheed Martin is not to be involved in that process at all – one of the most exciting things that Norwegian industry and Norwegian research can be involved in. We have said quite clearly that it is unmistakable that Norway should go to large air purchases without getting at least the same amount of investment back into the Norwegian industry. But at the present time not to participate in the Lockheed Martin project, will be to say about the branch on which our Air Force will concentrate its activities, as the representative Bredvold otherwise perfectly described in his reply to Marit Nybakk about the need for operational air defence. We have not taken a stand on which aircraft we are going to buy, but we are very clear that we need an air weapon in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e246	Int. S. No 49 for 2004-2005 on social security, there is a comment that the majority, with the right, believes that ‘Norwegian participation in international operations must be based on UN mandate and the principles of the UN Charter’. In the budgetary position we are discussing today, a majority say, with the right: ‘The majority are of the opinion that Norwegian participation in international operations must be anchored by international law.’ SV has also submitted an additional comment. Do these remarks mean the same thing, as the representative Hernæs sees it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e260	The answer is very short. The answer is yes. But I have no illusions that I can convince the representative Kjetil Bjørklund that that is the case. We have a lot of different definitions of what it's added up to. We've been involved in operations that haven't necessarily had an explicit UN decision, but have been clearly anchored by international law. I repeat my main answer: the answer to the question is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e269	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e272	For the Progress Party, NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian security and defence policy. NATO has a strong preparedness for social security and civil-military cooperation, which is important for the oil and gas nation of Norway. The Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea are among the world's most productive sea areas. The Progress Party wants a defence policy and a defence based on the challenges we face in society. We want a defence with the core tasks on Norwegian soil and with the capacity to participate in international operations. The basics of Norwegian security policy must be our position in strategic geography. Historically, the northern regions have always been interesting from the point of view of defence, not least sea and sea routes. In recent years, major valuable deposits of oil and gas have been discovered in just these marine areas. Here, too, there are rich fish bodies. Unexplained border and responsibilities in these areas increase the risk of conflicts and crises. We should deal with any crisis with our own resources, because involving allies could be escalating. We note an increasingly ongoing attitude from the Russian side in these areas, especially by what is expressed through official documents. In particular, it is therefore important that we build new frigates and missile torpedo boats that can sail in these waters and show the Norwegian flag and the sovereignty of Norway. There have been warnings from the United States about developments in NATO and about the lack of European accountability, which could have consequences for US involvement in Europe and for the future of NATO. The development of new strength structures and strategic objectives for the US military forces may mean that the US is reducing its involvement in Europe, which will change our security position. The Progress Party considers it particularly important to continue and develop the strategic partnership with the United States. It presupposes that bilateral relations with the United States must be managed in such a way as to strengthen ties. One of the main elements of such a partnership is the pre-storage of US military equipment. It is equally important to continue US training and practice activities in Norway as well as effective intelligence cooperation. As I said earlier, the Progress Party believes that NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian security and defence policy anchoring. However, it is also important that Norway finds a credible hold in defence cooperation in Europe. But it must not be at the expense of association with NATO and the United States. Norway has adhered to NATO’s revised strategic concept, which therefore also applies to the design of the Norwegian defence. The share of GDP in the defence budget is an important measure of defence efforts in the individual Member States of the alliance. Norway's share of GDP was 3 pst. In 1990, while falling in 2000 to 1.9 p.m., it is projected to remain there in the years to come, in the period up to 2005. The average of NATO member countries is 2.2 pst. NATO's applicant country is making great efforts to get up to 2 pst. And it should be obvious to us that Norway is not below this limit. We will therefore focus attention on our alternative budget of about NOK 31.2 billion, or an increase of approx. DKK 1.3 billion. The paradox is that all the other parties have cut off in their alternative budget. The Progress Party is very concerned that Norway should have a defence with the widest possible anchoring of the population, which, in our opinion, can best be ensured through a defence of the duty of protection. Measures have been taken and will be taken to stimulate the widest possible provision of the first-time service and to make sense for the first-time service. Professionalism is more up-to-date with the new and extended tasks of Defence. Military responsibility in different parts of the country is important in terms of both strategic values and anchoring against the population of the different parts of the country, thereby ensuring the continuation of popular defence. In the light of what has been said, the Progress Party believes that the defence should have the following tasks: military presence in priority areas intelligence and surveillance of Norwegian areas of interest sovereignty enhancement in Norwegian areas defence of Norwegian territories and facilitation to meet challenges against Norwegian security together with allied security of vital societal functions international involvement other societal use of the Defence The party of progress is also very pleased that the agreement with the government parties has given an increase to the Coast Guard of 10 million. kr, which is to make the Coast Guard fully operational. And then we're satisfied with an increase of 10 million. kr to the Marine Hunters' Command field at Ramsund, but not least has helped to ensure that the defence's health has received additional funding for the psychiatry, especially in view of the post-treatment of soldiers who have been in the service of war. The party of progress is, and has been, for a long time concerned that the defense must get new fighter planes to replace today's F 16. We believe it is vital for the Norwegian defence to have a combat aircraft capacity in the years to come. In the acquisition of new fighter aircraft, it is important that Norwegian industry obtain contracts for the development and production of the aircraft. Today, Norway is involved in two development projects, JSF and Eurofighter. The Government is currently receiving support for negotiating a Memorandum of Understanding with the US authorities, known as the MoU, on further development cooperation criteria in the context of the JSF. This, in conjunction with the large transfers to JSF through the development agreement concluded, places JSF offering a special status. We believe it would be reasonable and natural to go into a similar MoU with Eurofighter and look at new industrial opportunities in the development of Eurofighter. The Progress Party has also been concerned for a long time that the Defence must get new transport aircraft to replace today’s C-130. We are concerned about the needs of defence – and will receive – for tactical and strategic transport capacity in connection with the transformation of defence and its tasks in the home and abroad. The government did not want to commit to an agreement with Airbus Military for the purchase of A400M transport aircraft. This is thought to be short-term in the opinion of the Progress Party. The contract submitted would provide sufficient transport aircraft capacity up to approx. 2050. It would also have major positive ring-effects for Norwegian industry and would help secure thousands of Norwegian jobs. Finally, the progress party is wondering whether we should have any fighter planes at all, while the Navy is partly being added to the dock. So we're asking, what kind of defense are there really some parties in this room that want Norway to have? Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Progress Party and the Central Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e328	The representative Per Ove Width has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e334	Never has any party left its defence policy in such a short time as the Progress Party has now done in the autumn. If we go back just a few months, until 10 June, the Progress Party would break out of the joint striker agreement. There were no limits. It was the whole morning evening on the same day that we were going to give the cancellation. One was to maintain a large invasion defense. There should be more predictable long-term budgets, and the party presented proposals for a four-year defence budget. Today, the Progress Party even enters into a new MoU with the US authorities on the future acquisition of the JSF. It's not a pipe anywhere that we're going out of the deal. That's a very good thing, because then we're all in line. Moreover, the Party of Advancement takes note of all the observations which give a majority in the Chamber. This means that this budget is adopted by a very broad majority. That's good. It's predictable. But let me end by asking: can we now expect that the Progress Party will also deal with security policy realities and recognize that we must have a timely defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e341	Now, I guess the Labour Party is not the party that knows at least about making a settlement to get into a budget. That's what's been done in this context. So if the representative Nybakk looks at the alternative budget of the Progress Party, we have added SEK 1.3 billion, while the Labour Party has cut. It just emphasizes that there is something the Progress Party wants to do, is to strengthen Defence. But this time, like what the Labour Party has done over a number of years, we have entered into a settlement to ensure that the country gets a defence budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e348	In the autumn, the Party of Advances has negotiated, and they have not only negotiated crowns and ears, but they have also negotiated away from positions they stood with, among other things. Change of centre in connection with the long-term plan. Two examples of this: after this budget adjustment, none of us know what the Progress Party really thinks about the 337 Quadron, whether it should be on the Sun or on Bardufoss. And after this setting, no one really knows what the Progress Party thinks about entering into a MoU on acquisitions related to fighter aircraft or not. What you would like to hear in connection with such a debate is quite simply: when the case of a MoU comes back to the Stortinget, and the Government has not entered into a similar MoU with Eurofighter or other relevant sellers, does that mean that the Progress Party will oppose the conclusion of a MoU on the acquisition of the JSF? Likewise, will the Progress Party when the question of the 337 Quadron comes back to the Storting, go in order that it actually should be at Bardufoss, as we have previously agreed, or will they also be as failing in that matter as they are here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e353	In the case of the 337 squadron, it shall be located on Bardufoss. I didn't think there was any particular doubt that the Progress Party meant. With regard to MoU and Eurofighter and JSF, the Progress Party, through my post, has just stated quite clearly what we think about JSF and the concept that the Government is running. We've said so far that we're going out of the concept -- that's the last thing we said. We will probably be on that, but we have to look at this case when it comes back to Stortinget again and we are going to negotiate this project again. Most likely, the Progress Party will continue to stand on it. If nothing changes in relation to the Americans and Norwegian industry, the Progress Party will leave the JSF project.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e360	I want to follow up a bit of what the representative Nybakk was into. In the old days, the Left was perceived as the wing party – you didn't know where they were. Now I have a feeling that the Progress Party has taken over that role. So last year there were billions more to the defense. Now one has not negotiated about one penny, and it divides under one pst. between the Labour Party and the Progress Party in this budget. It is expressed with pleasure by the representative Width that he has received 10 million. SEK for one project and 10 million. kr to another project. Has the Progress Party now dropped all dream projects – can I get a confirmation of it – such as old national defence and transport aircraft and fighter aircraft and everything that is fun to have? Can we say that the eagle has now landed?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e367	Thanks for the fact that the representative Halvorsen calls the Progress Party an eagle, that's great. With regard to having taken over the role: Yes, we may have taken over the role that the Labour Party has had for many years, that is possible – at least we have felt responsibility for the country having a budget that we can live with. But it is far below what the Progress Party really wanted. If the representative Halvorsen looks at the alternative budget of the Progress Party, it is SEK 1.3 billion more than what we have entered into the agreement, as opposed to the Workers' Party, which has cut the budget. In the case of the $10 million, I think it's nice. It's little in the big context, we're talking about approx. 30 billion kroner. I fully agree with that. But it's very nice for those who get the money, and not least for the Coast Guard, who we depend on to have surgery, and as a period of time seemed to be able to get problems. Now they've got 10 million. kr more, and so they can sail. The others who have received the money are probably very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e376	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e379	According to the majority at Stortinget, Norwegian defence will spend over 30 billion dollars next year. There is a lot of money, and we have to expect that the defense has as its main device to secure us against the real threats to the security of the nation. SV has allowed itself to ask questions about whether it is really in Afghanistan and Iraq that we best ensure our security. We agree that our security depends on a number of international circumstances, and that we can have self-interest in participating in international operations with the UN mandate, but it doesn't matter where we participate. We also need to ask ourselves the question of whether it is the military instruments that are most appropriate to prevent conflicts and different situations in other countries from having an impact on our security. The foreign military focus has been significantly strengthened by the process adopted by the majority of the Grand Duchy in dealing with the long-term proposition in spring. The decisions in spring are a clear adaptation to the process that has taken place in NATO in recent years, where the ‘out of area’ concept was first adopted and then the operationalisation through the PCC obligations of the Praha meeting, the creation of the NATO Response Force and the new command structure. These are factors that strongly attract Norway to international military operations at short notice, far from Norway. The multiplicity comments in the vote clearly show that the majority, all with the exception of SV, will facilitate a more NATO-adapted defence, or rather a defence that is more structured to offer niche capacities for NATO operations, a defence for professional soldiers with more high-tech equipment than ever before, and a defence that is difficult to implement with the traditional protection obligation. All of this is a farewell to national defence, mainly because the threat picture is so unpredictable that one has to equip himself for all eventualities, especially terrorism. SV has long believed that the fight against terrorism is not a military matter, but a matter that needs to be resolved in other ways, firstly by contributing to terrorism’s failure to grow by the fact that people on the globe have hopeless living conditions. The enormous differences must be combated, not promoted. Terrorism is also a major intelligence problem. It's about finding the terrorists and thus averting terrorist acts. This makes it visible that there are instruments other than military use of power that are most active in the fight against terrorism, for example: the political, economic, diplomatic and all other non-military instruments. Not only are the military instruments not very accurate, but we are now looking particularly closely at the war in Iraq that we have had a rise in terrorism. As a small country, Norway is dependent on well-functioning international cooperation and clearly defined international rules. Norway has an interest in strengthening international law and countering, for example: the prohibition of use of power by international law is being undermined. Participation in peace processes, extensive voluntary contributions to the UN system and significant Norwegian aid efforts have established Norway as a kind of ‘humanitarian act’, with meaning beyond what our size in the population would mean. The role of an important humanitarian actor, in the SV’s view, will primarily contribute to providing greater security, although participation in peace processes may also make Norway vulnerable to attacks by forces that do not have an interest in peace. In the opinion of the SV, our security can best be ensured through a comprehensive approach to foreign, defence and security policy. A strong humanitarian and peace policy commitment should play a key role in Norwegian foreign policy. This presupposes that Norway acts independently in relation to major interests, with consistent defence of human rights and democracy. We have to manage our resources in a way that gives confidence. Norway must not make investments that support dictatorships or unethical forms of trade and production, which we do not currently have sufficient certainty that we do not. Today, Norway has taken on a role of loyalty to allies, a nation that assumes international responsibilities more than reflecting on the best efforts that give us greater security. The participation in Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and Iraq is now examples of this, and I think that some of the reasoning that this will give us advantages once we get into trouble is a thin argument. I am quite sure that those who will come to our rescue if we need it are the countries that have their own interest in it, namely those countries in our vicinity that have common security policy challenges with us. The SV will therefore have a more comprehensive approach to defence and security, and considers that Norway needs to pay greater attention to the fact that conflict prevention, the promotion of human rights, fair distribution, humanitarian aid and the strengthening of international law also help to secure peace and strengthen our security. In the opinion of the SV, defence needs to focus much more on tasks other than offensive international military operations than today, and this forms the basis for the alternative arrangements made by SV on its defence budget. The defence must be organised as a result of an assessment of what we want to defend, not as we are ever afraid of being able to happen. SV will include: place high emphasis on coastal safety. Norway is responsible for the sovereignty of areas seven times our country's size. Coast Guard preparedness and coastal security need to be strengthened, both as a consequence of the dramatic increase in Russian oil cargo and other cargo along the Norwegian coast and the need for a sound response to defence's tasks in resource management. In the past, it has been decided to extend the territorial sea of Norway from four to twelve nautical miles in order to enhance safety at sea. To achieve this objective, sufficient resources must be made available to monitor an enlarged territory and enforce Norwegian sovereignty. Close military-civil cooperation and maritime presence are necessary in the management of our territorial sea. There must also be clear responsibilities and adequate preparedness in relation to the serious situations that may arise from the very extensive transport of oil along our coast. We've come further with this in this magnification period, but there's a lot left. It's e.g. the Coast Guard is faced with serious resource crime challenges in the north, such as: fish fraud, which we may not be able to handle well enough today. It is a bad signal we send to other countries when we are not able to keep up the number of days sailing, even though the quality of the sailing days we carry out is improved. A new imbalance is emerging in the defence economy by the fact that there is still a lack of consistency between the Great Britain's defence structural decision and the adopted budgetary framework. I will again refer to the decision to build a new MTB vessel in the Skjold class, which will be a significant financial burden. The same applies to the frigates, which will result in significant increases in operating costs when they come into operation. Where's the population going to get the money for this? Defence planning must be based on clearly defined and real needs, and only on them. The process of conversion in defence is now moving rapidly towards a professional defence with the main facility for participation in NATO operations and where most other tasks are to be outsourced and privatised. This is pure ideology on the part of the Government, with good support from the Progress Party, and there are no economic calculations that suggest that this will bring economic benefits to the Defense but only fill up the pockets of private companies with a completely different demand for returns than the Defense has. In addition, very poorly motivated employees in the organisation feel that they should be removed and replaced by people in private enterprises. Of course, there's nothing to profit from this. As in all other privatisations, of course, it is so that the public can provide the same services as anyone else, and especially when one does not have to be left with large profits. SV, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, will actively oppose the privatisation of the Defence. Of course, the government's policy is giving less on the payrolls in Defense, but it doesn't solve the big challenge. The major problem in the conversion process in Defence is that there are not enough tasks cut out, and this has resulted in many people having a difficult working day in Defence with a lot of overtime. This will solve the majority of the population, with the exception of SV, by changing pay systems so that wage costs are reduced, and not by removing tasks so that the job can be done without enormous overtime use. SV believes that instead, the response should be given priority to what is the defence's task, namely to prevent war in our areas. In the opinion of the SV, the transition should now be slowed down so that the unrest within the organisation does not become so severe that it is shadowing the needs of a slimmer organisation with fewer tasks. This is also the main reason why SV for 2005 significantly reduces the operational cut-offs in the organisation. However, SV has come in to cut the defence budget considerably. We mainly take budget cuts on the investment side, especially on frigates and missile torpedo boats, as we have done for a long time, but also small cuts on some operating chapters. Today’s security policy situation requires much less extensive country defence, and the SV is very critical of the strong emphasis on the preparation of NATO strengths, not least through the strengths of efforts and their further development. SV kutter, as is also known on budget funds for the Eastern Region and the Mauken-Blatin link, and also on the development projects related to new fighter aircraft. The defence implements one of the most environmentally destructive projects of history in a relatively pristine natural area through the development of the Eastern Region, in a situation where the Army is severely reduced, and the need for a new field of fire and practice is low. This project should now be terminated and alternative solutions explored, including cooperation with Sweden. With this, I would like to address the proposal SV and the Senterpartiet have included in the setting about this. The need for clean-up in old shooting areas is also great, and I am pleased that the committee has clarified in its remarks that cleaning up old shooting areas must be prioritised next year. The defence, through its activities, creates a significant burden on the environment, and it is time for the defence to establish environmental management, as many other sectors of society have done. The Hovemo at Lillehammer is now rocked to the needs of the Defence and, with the necessary storage functions, to the Committee's attention in the vote. This is very pleasing, and it exonerates the doubts that have arisen lately that the defense wanted to prioritize this stock. The Hovemo warehouse is very modern and has a cost-effectiveness that competitions the most. This stock will provide very good storage services to a defense that, even if it gets smaller, does not get fewer parts to keep track of. In this budgetary agreement, the Government and the Advance Party have raised 21 million. kr from the funds given to the conversion municipalities by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs over the defence budget. This is not visible in any notes. On the contrary, a unanimous committee has said that ‘support for this work continues at the same level as in 2004’. I would like to note this in particular, because the municipalities that should have had these means, at least if we assume that it is the same municipalities that were to be given in 2004 as in 2005, such as Lødingen, Våler, Ringerike, Evje and Hornnes, Porsanger, Dovre and a lot of others, now have to divide by about half. It was probably not this Christmas presang these municipalities had expected after a rather narrow Christmas winter until now. It should have been possible to pick up these heads in other areas. In SV, there is room for significant savings in the Norwegian defence expenditure. We note that there is no majority in favour of the SV's proposal for a framework for this budget area. SV will therefore vote against the current voting setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e430	The representative of Kjetil Bjørklund has mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e435	The representative Bjørklund is concerned about each of the means of operation for the new frigates to be taken from. I have noticed that the SV and the Zenterpartie will terminate the contract on the purchase of frigates, but I have not seen that SV has seen any place to buy out of this contract. But that will cost us, we can be sure. Another thing that will cost is the effect that this conclusion of the contract will have on Norwegian jobs. So it's about repurchase for about 16 billion dollars. What options do SV have for those who currently produce goods as part of the repurchase for these frigates? What are they going to do? It is nice that SV has been busy with jobs at Hovemoen. But are they aware that these workspaces may be lost?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e442	SV's arrangement of the Defence is based on what the Defence needs structural elements in order to fulfil its task. It is the most important thing for SV's representations within the defence budget. Of course, SV is also concerned with maintaining industrial workplaces, but we believe that the needs of the defence are the most important thing, and that if we want to subsidise or support Norwegian industrial workplaces, we should be able to do so in other ways than build products that we do not actually need in the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e448	As I said in my main post, this government has implemented it perhaps the most effective conversion of the public sector ever. In addition, in close cooperation with a broad majority at Stortinget, we have presented a new four-year notice to the Defence Agency. So I hope that the representative of Bjørklund will understand that when this government is challenged by one of the country's most powerful organizations with the declared aim of removing this success government for the benefit of a government, among other things. SV is included, and is willing to use millions of dollars to get this done, so it takes us who have ambitions on behalf of the Defense. In Magasinet Aktuell nr. 9 this year, Stein Ørnhøi says, "The long-term plans for the defence provide no platform for a new government." Does Stein Ørnhøi cover this? Would Bjørklund say that the plans and platform for a government are not very solid?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e455	What comrade Stein Ørnhøi had to think of saying to the Current must basically be at his expense. In many ways, it has been made relatively clear what is SV's dispositions for the years to come, both through the debate on the long-term proposition in ours and in budget entries in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e460	SV criticizes everything that's wrong and doesn't work in the defense, but cuts big sums, NOK 3 billion. At the same time, they want to maintain what they say is a form of defense – or what they probably mean. They also say in their main priorities in the setting: ‘These cuts relate to primary expenditure on new acquisitions of materials and to shooting grounds.’ How should SV manage to maintain a good defence without good material and without exercise?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e470	For next year, SV is willing to grant approximately NOK 27 billion to the Norwegian defense. That's a lot of money. It is far more than most other countries in our neighbourhoods use in defence. It is fully possible to establish a good defence for our needs within a cost framework such as the SV budget. With regard to the need for the Eastern region, we have had that discussion many times in the Committee, and what is clear to most people is that with the army we now have in Norway, and with the alternative options available, there are other alternatives that should perhaps have been worth considering than implementing one of the most environmentally damaging projects in Norway's history.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e477	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e480	The further conversion and modernisation of the defence we had to deal with in the long-term proposition in ours. The development of Defence to become a modern, flexible and ally-fitted security policy instrument continues. The Christian People's Party believes it is very important to establish a better balance between defence tasks, structure and resource availability, further securing and promoting Norwegian interests through the ability to address a wide range of security challenges both nationally and internationally. The national and international tasks complement each other and give a mutually reinforcing effect. In the budgetary position we are now discussing, I have been the case rapporteur for the chapter on social security and preparedness. As we had a good debate on the topic two days ago, I would like to refer to the suspension and announcement of social security and civil-military cooperation, which is a long-term plan for the period 2005–08. In budgetary terms, the Ministry of Justice and Police also has social security in its budget proposal, while the defence committee is dealing with the matter and has it in its position. Cape. 451 includes the coordination and supervisory role of the Ministry of Justice and Police in the area of social security and preparedness and the responsibilities and tasks assigned to the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and the National Safety Authority. The entire Committee agrees that a key challenge is to prevent crises and accidents through targeted and resource-efficient actions and activities. It is important to further develop social security and preparedness work at all levels of government. The Ministry of Justice and Police will develop a strategy for the prevention of social security work, which will be of great importance in future work. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to further develop the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness for an organisation that meets the need for coordination in the area of social security. Key instruments include supervisory, regulatory, market, information and training activities, research and investigation activities and international work. The Directorate has a very comprehensive work area. To put it a little lightly: the work area extends from tripping edges to war. Society is in a state of rapid development, where changes take place quickly and where contexts and consequences may at times be difficult to see. The Christian People’s Party is therefore pleased that a sample has been set up to assess how the Kingdom’s security and vital national interests can best be addressed to non-public establishments. In addition, it shall identify the instruments used to ensure the Kingdom’s security and vital national interests when privatising public enterprises. The second main area for which I am the case rapporteur is Defence Building and new buildings and installations. The Christian People's Party considers it important that there is a close dialogue with local authorities and stakeholders in the disposal of defence property in order to ensure that the after-use is as good as possible for the community, not least with the possibility of creating new jobs in the area. The disposal of property, construction and civil engineering is an important budgetary assumption and an important instrument for the release of funds for future investments that contribute to increasing the operational capacity of the Defence Agency. At the same time, disposal contributes greatly to the reduction of defence operating costs. In the notes, the Labour Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party agreed to budget revenue from real estate sales in 2005 at around EUR 15 million. $800 million. gross kr, or approx. 400 million. Net kr. It suggests that workers' party representatives should be careful to promise away defence property for a cheap money. Regionfelt Eastland is also part of Defence Building. The Christian People's Party was in a minority when the establishment of Regionfelt Eastland was being treated in Stortinget. We have taken the consequences of this and have instead worked to ensure that the local environment can live in the best possible way with both Rena clay and the shooting area. The shooting field committee has provided an investigation to the state council, and in that work we had a review of the experience with the establishment of the region field. Both Hedmark County Municipality and Åmote Municipality were asked to comment on their experience with this extensive process in which they have been and are an active party. In this context, it was particularly positive to see that the work and cooperation achieved on the environmental side, with the environmental follow-up programme, the follow-up studies and verification/monitoring, are satisfied with the municipality. In the budgetary position, the Labour Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are together to note that ‘the development of the Eastern Region continues, in line with previous decisions in the Stortinget’, as it says in one of the comments. But there will be double communication from the Workers' Party when, in the Financial Committee's position, they push at 200 million. kr from the allocated item in 2005 until later years and in addition moving 40 million. kr from Regionfelt Eastland for the completion of the workshop building in Rena clay. It gives a negative signal to both the Østerdal garrison and the Rena environment. Nor can it be so easy to be rapporteur or rapporteur-in-Office of the Council when their party traps in the Central Party and the Socialist Left propose to terminate the development of the Eastern Region and explore other alternatives. Care should be taken to provide advice to other parties, but some of us have long accepted that the Eastern Region is being built, and it is more constructive to contribute to good cooperation between the community and the Defence. Against the municipalities have put a lot of effort into the defense. Then we must provide the necessary support and not endanger the entire Østerdal garrison to be moved to North Norway. There is an overall committee that notes on the bioenergy project at Rena. The Christian People's Party also sees that project as a good remedy. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the intentions of the Universal Design Action Plan should also be followed up in the defence sector. But it's important that the project leaders of Defence Building take a good look at what universal design is all about. There is often availability for people with reduced mobility who appear on the Internet, but there are many areas and the goal is for everyone to work as well as possible. Disability is often caused by poor solutions. The Christian People's Party believes that in principle there will be no distinction between staff and capacities for national and international missions respectively. Therefore, it has been important to ‘frame’ the mission to which our soldiers may be sent, together with the imposition of the obligation to order. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, the majority comment adopted by both the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee in spring, stressing that Norway's participation in international operations must be based on international law and based on both legality and legitimacy, is very important. Modern defence must be based on sound competence. Flexibility in many fields takes a long time to build up. Defence must therefore maintain and further develop an efficient and attractive education system. In addition, the Christian People's Party will clarify the importance of the defence taking good care of the soldiers sent out on international missions. Therefore, it is positive that the establishment of a national outpatient clinic for injured personnel, veterans and relatives is now under way. The offer shall relate to the long-term follow-up in the fields of health, insurance and social security. The trial project of psychosocial/psycho-somatic follow-up of personnel who have suffered psychological damage following international operations is also a good response. In this context, I would like to stress once again the importance of health professionals having the necessary competence in war streams and prerequisites to understand what individuals have experienced and struggle with. The stress assessment team does an important job — both before, during and after international missions. An overall committee sees the need for this service and has added 1 million. kr in the budget. The Christian People's Party will also take into account that a thorough learning of qualities such as mental strength, cultural understanding, morality and international law is important in preparing the soldiers to meet tough days. Even from the start of the initial service, emphasis is placed on understanding the ethical and moral aspects of serving in the Defence Nationally and internationally. The Committee has also referred to the "Rena model", as we have called it, which is a tailor-made study for international force personnel, and believes it could be a model that can be used throughout the defence. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to commend all those who do a good job in the conversion process. It is enough that we have the easiest to criticise what is going wrong, but the defense should know that we also see what is going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e547	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e550	The representative, Wisløff Nilssen, spoke in his speech on the debate on social security on 30 November. Then she actually said the following in a reply to Marit Nybakk: ‘Privatisation is probably necessary. However, it is absolutely essential that there be some impact assessments, so that we do not harm either the competences that public needs, or – not least – social security and preparedness.’ Against this background, it might have been useful if the representative Wisløff Nilssen could explain why the Christian People's Party is not involved in a comment in the budget position on the impact of privatisation of the base business of Håkonsvern before this matter comes to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e560	When we don't go into such a single project and say that it has to be verified, it simply has to do with everything that needs to be outsourced, and that it's part of the important work that the Defense does in terms of Haacon protection as well. Otherwise, I would say that impact assessment and looking at social security and competence is something that we all agree on is important in this work. I also referred in my contribution to the sample that the Ministry of Justice has now reduced, which is in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e567	Change Property has been in the media several times since the defense decided to dispose of a number of military properties, ranging from some small knuckles to large military camps. A smaller part of the mention of Change Property has been negative, the last about the taxiing of the Haslemoen camp and the sale of it, where it is now revealed that some people have had more interests than just the job they have been hired to do. Is the representative Wisløff Nilssen satisfied with Change Property's work in this case, and if not, how will she continue to engage in this so that potential buyers are 100 pst. ensure that the information provided is correct? When this is said, it must also be said in the name of justice that very many sales by Shifte Eiendom have gone very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e576	I agree that the vast majority of real estate transfers that Shifte Eiendom has been through have gone very well. However, I have been concerned about Haslemoen, simply based on what has been contained in newspaper articles that I have collected during the period in which the disposal process has taken place. Now we know that Change Property Centrally and Defence Buildings have taken hold of what I experienced as a little uncertain in relation to stability and ethical guidelines, so I expect that this is going to go very well now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e582	Clearly, in the agreement between the Government and the Progress Party on this budget, 20 million have been lost. kr from the post of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs for the conversion municipalities. The post government proposed was 40,5 million. kr, while the entry to be adopted here is 19,5 million. kr. This is not reflected in any notes – on the contrary. I can mention in particular a few of the municipalities that have benefited in particular from these means of conversion, e.g. Våler, Dovre, Ringerike, Evje and Hornnes, Porsanger, Lødningen etc. Does the representative Wisløff Nilssen think that this is a suitable presage of Christmas to these municipalities, and has this been discussed with the relevant municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e589	It is correct that the representative Bjørklund says: there is no comment. Here, I think we might have to take a collective blame for a mistake. Policies are also a priority. This time it wasn't difficult to prioritize the three areas to which we transferred money, the Coast Guard, the field of fire at Ramsund and Sanity. If we look back at the long-term proposition, it would be 60 million. NOK, over four years, to be used for the municipalities. It's not that bad. Otherwise, this is something that we want to follow. I'm sure the local authorities will be fine. They're going to apply for money, it's going to give you the opportunity to check how things are going.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e601	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e604	The position of the Defence Committee on the budget for the following year is marked by the post-deaths in accordance with the long-term plan and its examination. It is also marked by the conclusion of a settlement between the government parties and the Progress Party. The budget does not involve the major budgetary changes, I think none of us can claim that. The discussion is more focused on the leadership of the budgetary changes and the follow-up to the long-term plan, which the budget actually represents. The centre party believes that the change that is now taking place within the Defence Department is partly in the wrong direction and partly too fast in relation to important considerations that need to be taken care of. The central party is of the opinion that we are in the process of creating a more vulnerable and more centralised defence. We also believe that we are in great danger of making significant errors along the way in the process and also adding new unnecessary costs. The time following the debate on the long-term plan before the summer has also shown that there was a good basis for a good part of the criticism of the transition that some parties made at the time. Some of the changes simply prove to be a centralisation. In the budget, there are also leaders who can further pressure against centralisation and a more high level of defence. At the same time, we are seeing new examples of things happening so quickly that new mistakes are made or new costs arise. Moreover, I have to say that the budget is also characterized by a stronger belief in the exclusion and privatisation of tasks than before. We are in danger of believing that putting away or privatising tasks within the Defence shall be the simple solution to the problems, whether in terms of jobs or costs. There are, in particular, two points relating to the budget that occupy the centre party, where we are deeply concerned. One is the transformation of the FLO, the logistics organisation, and what we now see in Division Heavy Maintenance, the workshops, and also in how fast the process actually goes. There have also been recalibrations during the year that has passed since we last discussed the FLO explicitly. Only in itself create uncertainty both within the organisation and externally. Another major element of uncertainty in the budget, which also concerns the Centre Party, is what is happening in relation to the so-called Programme Golf. It's impossible to know what it's going to cost in the individual phases, and what the final sum of the project is. The centre party is subject to a number of matters covered by the budget. We are concerned that the Coast Guard must be given better conditions than this budget provides in order to carry out tasks in the northern regions. There is still some of what we have left in terms of both sovereignty and authority monitoring related to the northern regions. We have to take care of that. Now the majority has increased by 10 million. kr there, and that is good, but it is far from what is needed to get close to what is needed to exploit the capacity of the Coast Guard. It is such that we have received a response from the department that sailing days alone does not matter. It's possible that alone it doesn't matter, but it actually means something. Only between 2000 and today has the number of days sailing in the Coast Guard decreased by 925 days. The centre party is also concerned about the issue of fighter aircraft. There's a lot of people who've been busy with this in the hall today. It's simply a mystery what Right actually means about fighter planes now. It's a mystery that they can say that no decisions have been made, that there are not so strong leaders that it actually binds the freedom of action in the last instance. It's a mystery that these people might think that you're going to make a MoU about acquiring with the JSF, without putting any ties on our final decision in 2008. It is also a mystery that the Right – especially – can no longer be involved in comments on the importance of the Norwegian defence industry. However, it is a point of light when, in today's debate, the Progress Party has so clearly announced that they do not want the type of MoU to be entered into if it is not done with other potential suppliers at the same time. It really means that there is no majority in this Chamber today to conclude a MoU on which the Defense now wants to start negotiations. The centre party has made a proposal here today. We have noticed that there are still projects that have problems or that give rise to increased costs. The last example is a 2 billion DKK rocket system, purchased seven years ago, which is not due to be scrapped today, but which needs to be updated for several hundred million dollars. It suggests that it is now time to have an external review of the investments made in the Defence. What makes things go wrong? What is it that makes there become large extra costs? With that, I would like to address proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e625	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e630	I did not know that the Center Party was yet able to amaze me, but they actually do when I read the budget. The centre batch will terminate the purchase of new frigates, but the batch will nevertheless require the dock to maintain the frigates to be built. The centre party will terminate the construction of the region field in the East. But where is the money taken when the workshop at Rena is to be completed? Yes, the Center Party is picking up the money from the shooting range. What are we going to do with the dock without frigates? And what are we going to do with a workshop, when the weapons can't be fired with? The center party amazes me. Or don't they?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e640	The President reminds us that it is approaching Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e643	It is nice that we are still able to surprise someone. I have to say it surprises me a little if the Labour Party and the representative Halvorsen are surprised that we will take 40 million. kr from the shooting area and use it to the technical workshop at Rena. In fact, there we stand with the Workers' Party. We have a common proposal and common comments with the Labour Party on it. I'm going to use it for the same thing, and I'm going to take it from the same thing. In the case of the frigates, the Central Party, having fought against their building, acknowledges that that process has come so far that it is impossible to restore it. Then we will also prepare for what must come in the future in the case of the dry dock at Haakonsvern.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e652	The center party says in the setting that they are of the opinion that the pace of the conversion in the defense is too fast. But this has not always been the central party's attitude. Int. S. No 342 for 2000-2001 the Centre was involved in proposing to dimension the Defence Logistics Organisation so that it could save 200 million. kr more annually than proposed by the Government. My question is: what is the reason why the Center Party has now found out that it is better to see the FLO? And further, where will the Center get money to let the Air Force fly, the Marine and the Coast Guard sail and the Army train, when they want to stagnate the efficiency of the support structure while they want to cut the defense budget by 500 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e659	To the first question, it is tempting to say that the reason why the Senter party went for it at the time was that I did not sit on the Stortinget then. But I'm not going to take it that easy. It is clear that we believe that the conversion in the FLO is too fast, and that it is now subject to excessive costs with errors that are being made in the course of the process. We are also concerned about some of the cost increases and some of the misinvestments you have now seen. There have been many in the debate today that have spoken of some parties cutting in the shooting field in Eastern Europe, or that we will cut in the management building at Akershus. But the cuts we make in this budget are no more than that, for example. The defense now says they have to update a seven-year-old rocket weapon system with, in Inner Troms, because the ammunition has become too expensive and too old. Then they've only spent $2 billion on introducing the rocket system, and they can reassure us today that they won't cut it up, but they have to update to hundreds of millions of dollars. The problem of costs is primarily a problem within the defence, not a problem related to the cuts the opposition is making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e667	In the comments of the Central Party, we can read that the Central Party notes that the Army has had its budgetary framework considerably reduced in recent years, while there is a need for increased activity in the context of the conversion that is now taking place. The centre party further states that the task of producing to the Defence Force Structure and operational engagement implies that the Army should be given increased freedom of action. The army in South Norway has based its operations in Rena clay and Regionfelt Eastland. Does the representative of the Central Party mean, at the same time, that we should stop the expansion of the region field and have no place to practice, just to give the Army the opportunity to produce?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e674	If the question is whether we can have an army without a field of fire in the East, the answer is yes. It is seaworthy to have an army in Norway without the establishment of a new field of fire in the East. It is also possible, in our opinion, to provide training and practice without having built up the new firing range at Rena. But I must say that the Army's position in the Østerdalen is an interesting theme. We have just been through a long-term plan where one has actually put the management of the part of the Army that is in Østerdalen garrison, to Linderud in Oslo, and there have been several of Hedmark's representatives here in Stortinget. It is suitable for wonder at a time when you want to strengthen the Army's presence in Rena and in the Østerdalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e681	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e684	After two major periods in a row in the Defence Committee, the debate today is my last budget debate. The last eight years have been a challenging, demanding and interesting time in the committee. I do not conceal that there have also been difficult times, with many breaks, the old and the new time between the'so should rise, against then, so should this', as it is called at Per Sivle, from an innovation defence to an international defense. When I entered the committee, the situation was still such that it was stationary coastal, in mountains, under construction. Stationary coastal forts are not cheap, and today I know that the FLO is in the process of dismantling coastal forts, such as the municipality of Nes in Lødingen. There have been many misinvestments in Defence. Last Tuesday we could read in the newspaper about an MRL battery of NOK 2 billion to be scrapped. Now, fortunately, this is not certain to happen, but it is a much faster replacement of material now that we operate internationally, than it was before, when we were to lie in a pavement in Troms and wait for the invasion. It is therefore essential that we succeed in distorting the flow of money from operation to investment. The really big and necessary conversion was the one that Minister of Defence Bjørn Tore Godal did on behalf of the Stoltenberg government. St. pp. No 45 for 2000–2001 reviewed the new challenges and provided the basis for the conversion. What's interesting in a historical perspective is the behaviour of the Right at that time. The majority of the time the Council of State Godal pledged to have a greater defense than he wanted. The fact that Minister of Defence Godal and the government were so good at arranging the funding was a natural thing at the time. But the fact was that the Stortinger laid down a larger structure than the defence budget laid down. This creates an economic imbalance between the structure of the defence and the financing of the defence. One might say a lot about the party Right, but it was, as I see it, no doubt that the curriculum was steep when the minister post in the Ministry of Defence got a new political color. That right-wing work towards integrated management is also interesting, when one knows that all new NATO countries are required to have integrated management. Well, eventually the Right took the sense, and the basis for the first defence policy agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party became a reality. This agreement was confirmed in the spring, when the Government and the Workers' Party agreed on the defence structure also for the next long term. The Labour Party is committed to its commitments in defence policy. Perhaps such a settlement between a government and an opposition party could only come about with a constructive opposition such as the Workers' Party. The challenges facing Norway are now finding their place in international defence cooperation and in the difficult balance between European security policy and the transatlantic alliance. The 2005 Defence Budget is a good budget and in line with the long-term budget. I can therefore recommend the budget, including the comments of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e705	I guess so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e708	We are now entering the last year of the four-year period, the four-year period of adoption of the structure for spring 2001. The first sentence of the proposal submitted in spring 2001 was: ‘The defence is in a deep and sustained structural crisis’. Investment budgets decreased and decreased. Operational ability was very deficient, and the prospects were even worse. Everyone agreed that the situation was serious and that something had to be done. A unanimous defence committee, not just a majority, decided that we had to save $2 billion a year in operation, and we had to cut down on 5,000 annual work. That's this plan we've been running for three years, and we're going into the fourth -- with the unanimous support of a crew of 5,000 men. It was the Stortinget that speeded up. It should have been completed by 31 December 2005. Those who think this is going too fast have themselves been in favour of the pace and the scale. You can't waive the responsibility for that. In addition, we are in front of the form. We're estimated to be able to save $2.4 billion per person. years on the operational budget. It gives even more to investment in order to get a modern defense, and it gives more sailing, flight and practice. If this hadn't happened, we would have had a defense that had moved towards bankruptcy. The tempo has been correct. The action has been correct. I will give tribute to all capable women and men in the Defense who have contributed to its implementation. We have had a significant increase in operational capability. This allows us to lead a Battle Group in Kabul and a Norwegian company by 2005. We can stand with up to 50 men in the PRTs in Meymaneh. We can make a helicopter flight to Kosovo and then a requested intelligence contribution. We can make contributions in Bosnia under the direction of the EU. We can put four F-16s in the Baltic in addition to an Air Control Unit. We can place both an MTB squadron, a maritime patrol plane and submarines for operations in the Mediterranean. We can also have NRF notifications next year: Telemark battalion, an ISR element, a mine yacht, a submarine, an Orion aircraft and a C-130 transport aircraft, to spring. It is not much worse for the autumn; here we have been able to report an element from the mini-diving command, a mining vessel, a submarine and six F-16 fighter aircraft, in cooperation with Denmark and the Netherlands. Why am I saying this? Well, I'm saying this because it's a result of the conversion we've had. The sum of this significant out presence costs 800 million. kr in the year of a defence budget of 30 billion kroner. It shows that far the greatest funds still go to the defense of our nation. That means that all of these units that are able to do a good job out there are most of the time at home. This means that the experience we have gained when we have been out and taken on a global responsibility for peace in countries other than our own has benefited the Defence in terms of empowerment and increased reaction capabilities, not least in our northern regions. All of these units I'm describing are also the units that are relevant to the defense of the country. I would like to thank the Progress Party. We have had good and constructive cooperation on the budget. We have been able to increase the appropriations both for the Coast Guard, for the Marine Commander and for the follow-up of those who have been in international service. We have now, on two occasions, when we were to prioritise money to finance the conversion of defence that Stortinget has adopted, succeeded in finding solutions with the Progress Party. It also promises well for the future, especially when we see the direction that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have taken. They've all cut between 300 million. kr and 3 billion kr, and there are several notes that mark a clear left triangle. It concerns me in relation to the follow-up to the defence agreements we have concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e732	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e735	Let me first underline that the 300 million. kr as our financial fraction cut in its position, still means that we are well within the June 2005 agreement. We have taken note that this was not adopted, and we have now joined in what is the majority position of the Defence Committee. We've been and are in the biggest transformation in the public sector ever. It was the Workers' Party that put forward proposals for a defence reform in 2001. It ended up known as chaos. We then presented ourselves as a constructive opposition party, both in 2002, in all the budgetary procedures, and not least in the examination of the 2005-2008 long-term plan. We stand by the defence agreement that was concluded in June, which provides a basis for the next four-year period, from 1 January 2005. But there is one point that disturbs the Workers' Party, and that is the extensive privatisation that it looks like the Council of State is prepared to implement, because it is not the basis for the June conciliation. I want to ask if it is such that the Council of State intends to continue this privatisation at the rate that it seems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e744	I just want to briefly confirm that the Government intends to implement the exception of services that Godal proposed. We have in our notes based on what we agreed on in ours, and that's in line with what the Godal suggested in St. prp. No 45 for 2000-2001. But what I find in this setting is that the Workers' Party is at the same time involved in some comments together with the SV and the Center Party which are considerably more restrictive to exceptions than the Godal was. I take that as a signal on the left turn that I fear. It is not possible to discharge responsibility for a budget cut of 300 million. kr by saying that it did so in the Financial Committee. It happened a week ago, and it happened by cutting 100 million. kr for operation, which would have to hit both the Army, the Maritime Defense and the Air Force, and this happened by cutting 200 million. kr – over half of the investment in the Eastern Region – which undermines the entire existence of the Army in the Eastern region.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e749	As I said in my post earlier, the Progress Party is very concerned about getting new transport planes to replace today's C-130, and we are concerned about the need for Defence, which will need a tactical and strategic transport capacity in connection with the transformation of Defence and tasks in the home and abroad, which we all agree on. So the government didn't want to commit to the Airbus Military agreement on the purchase of A400M transport aircraft, and we think that's very short-sighted. The contract submitted would provide sufficient air transport capacity up to approx. 2050, and it would also have very positive ring-effects for the Norwegian defence industry and would contribute to many jobs. In addition, there would be no impact on the 2005 budget. Why couldn't the government go in for such a good offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e756	I want to start by saying that I am recording that at least the Progress Party did not prioritise these transport planes so high that it became part of the budgetary agreement with the Government. I think that is an expression of the fact that the defence budget we have is very good, even without having to commit today to contract transport aircraft, when we know that the acquisition will not actually take place until near 2012. It gives freedom of action. The reason why freedom of action is important is that other investments are also important, not least fighter aircraft. I registered with great satisfaction that the Progress Party raised questions related to the Workers' Party's last signal that we might not need fighter aircraft. Here I would say that a country without a fighter plane is a country without the ability to assert its own independence. When we know that fighter aircraft investments must probably be decided before the transport planes, I'm glad that we haven't tied up, and at least I'm glad that the Progress Party, along with the Government, is crystal clear that we also need a national combat fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e764	There are almost no limits to what the Council of State can report to different international operations this year. It's worth noting. Additional costs for international operations are about 800 million. kr next year. What are the real costs of keeping these different structural elements in operation, such as Telemark battalion, so that they can participate in these operations and thus incur additional costs of 800 million. kr when they are outside the borders of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e776	I understand that SV is concerned about costs, because when a Kutter NOK 3 billion in a defence budget, one has basically nothing to run the defense for at all. What we do when we put 800 million. kr for international operations, is based on the fact that the determined costs of the forces are incurred in any case, for the simple reason that we need the response capability at home anyway. We are interested in having both an air defense, a telemark battalion, special forces and a marine defense that can react as quickly at home as they can out. That's what's a national defense. That it has the added effect that we can do a lot of good for ourselves in the world society for just 800 million. NOK 30 billion, we're happy for that. I have to add that when SV claims that it is possible to cut 3 billion in the defence budget and take it on investment, it is purely a matter of thought. The investment contracts are tied up, they're signed, they bind us financially, and we save almost nothing on getting out of them. That is, SV's budget means to turn off the light in all defenses, because there's nothing left for anything but fixed pay and hardly enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e785	Interestingly, the Council of State first thanked the Progress Party for the cooperation and then made it clear that the Progress Party has not prioritised transport aircraft because it is not in the final agreement. That's how you treat your conciliators. In recent times, we have experienced that a number of investments in Defence have failed, as it is called. It is a new rocket system, seven years old, to NOK 2 billion, which probably needs to be updated to several hundred million kroner, it is a new workshop at Rena – and Elverum – we have probably used about. 300 million. kr on it now. The question is whether it will ever be used. The frigates, which probably had a price tag when we started, at NOK 12 billion, are now up to over NOK 16 billion. We have a golf program that neither of us knows what's going to cost to the seventh and last. Is it not soon that the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defence will have some independence to assess why the investment goes so wrong in the defence, and why the margin of error is as large as they are?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e794	Marit Arnstad mentions several things: the frigates, the Gulf programme, etc., on which we have had correspondence and many debates on which the claims made by Marit Arnstad have been rejected repeatedly. In the case of the workshop on Rena, otherwise, it's new, and I'm going to end up completely to Gunnar Halvorsen's angle, that it's strange that you want to prioritize a workshop on Rena, when you don't want a shooting field in the Eastern region at all. Everyone knows that the Army's presence will not be found on Rena in the future, if you don't want an outdoor class room on the same line with an indoor class room. I would also like to point out that what Marit Arnstad should be concerned about is that in 2001 the Central Party proposed 200 million. kr in the year in cut on the FLO, more than what we're changing – and Marit Arnstad thinks it's going too fast. The center part went in for 200 million. kr more a year in cutting management than what we're doing now – and Marit Arnstad thinks it's going too fast. So it's for the entire four-year period the Central Party has entered into this, and it binds the Center Party, because we're actually just starting at the last year of the four-year period. The accounts of the Center Party are not related.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e803	I am a little surprised by the power shown by the Council of State when it comes to taking the Workers' Party: a clear left triangle, and that Godal stood for more privatisation than the Advance Party does. At the same time, however, the Council of State commends the Party of Advancement. We're now going to see how long this is going to last. The experience with the Advancement Party is that it is short - lived happiness. I have a specific question, which we agree on, and it's a matter called the dock at Haakonsvern. It has not got its final solution. Can the Council confirm that the matter will come to Stortinget as its own case? Is it possible for the Council of State to give a hint as to when, if so, the case should be brought before the Grand Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e810	It must be allowed to give praise to a party which has secured the Government majority for a very good defence budget. That's the first time we've passed NOK 30 billion. That is what the Progress Party deserves for, because it means that the Progress Party is involved in ensuring that we can keep the pace of change, reach the transition goals, get the necessary means to sea, air and army – because, among other things, we do. keep pace with the transitions and the support structure. It is no secret that I would have wished that the Workers' Party had also stood by the limits we have come up to, and not been cut off in the Eastern Region, and not made a military cut. With regard to the plans for docks in Bergen, we have been with the Workers' Party about it. That's still true. That's where we're going to have a doll. But we've always stressed that the OPS solution was an alternative. That's now an option that we're going to go in for. I do not want to be kicked here and now signal some timetable for the further work. I just want to say that what will be the safest for the workplaces in Bergen is a dock that can take on commission for even more than the defense can.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e819	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e822	The world is constantly changing, and therefore new challenges constantly. Norway's defence is also changing. The size has determined that the defence should be slimned, both crew, equipment, building, in the case of presence, etc. At this change, Defense has received a timetable that some people think is too tight, so tight that some processes and actions produce results that are not only lucky. You have e.g. the start of the construction of a workshop, but then the need is changed due to conversion and the workshop's activities are assessed moved to another location. Such processes bring frustration, not only to the employees and their families, but also to those who depend on the Defence somehow. But perhaps it is the worst thing that trust among both those working in the defence sector and not least among the population of Norway is getting smaller. We have to do something about this. The budgets and objectives of the defence must become more visible, not least in such a way that the decision on the location and operation of a military operation becomes more long-term and predictable. This will be of great importance and will give a tremendous benefit to the activities and output of the Defence Agency. Otherwise, it is good that the defence focuses on where the presence should be in Norway. Rationalization is in place, but not at all. Presence is important. For this reason, the Progress Party was very sceptical and voted against when the number of Homeland soldiers was proposed to be reduced by 33,000 men and women and the number of Homeland districts was also greatly reduced. For example, after this decision: Kongswinger fastening again with only one commandantship in three positions. It is then important that these three positions really become a commandship for the fastening, which is not only to operate with HV-05 work. A monument to war history must take care of and care for society and, not least, use it, preferably in cooperation with civil society. Perhaps a close cooperation with Akershus fortification is the best solution? The progress party also hopes that you don't think about a partial sale here. All the fortification buildings, both inside and outside the walls, must be kept together. As far as the army's power collection is concerned, both in North Norway and South Norway, it's important to be long-term and to complete the plans you have. Some claim that a threat will not come from the north. But what guarantee do you have for that? The threat and terror picture is constantly changing, and with our interests in the north, as well as the oil and fish resources, it may be even more important to have a strong presence up north. With regard to the regional field and Rena clay, the Progress Party is concerned that there are still some who will stop or delay this process. Here I would like to commend those who have contributed to the fact that the region field and Rena clay have managed to keep deadlines and almost budgets, perhaps with the exception of the lack of 30-40 million. NOK, at the completion of the Rena technical workshop. The progress batch assumes that this money is available, so that the need for the defence workshop capacity exists where the vehicles and equipment are used and that the users are nearby. Transporting these to workshops far away does not come into play. How this is to be done in practice is also a problem. In the area of the region and taking money from there to fill in the shop’s budget, as some parties suggest, it is also wrong. The Party considers that the development of the regional area must continue after the plan and be completed. What are we going to do with a workshop when the cars have no place to practice? Storage space and garage spaces are something the defense already has enough of. I also want to praise Åmt kommune here tonight, who has been a neat and good partner in terms of the camp and the exercise area. Here, the municipality and the defense make use of each other in a number of areas. This is very positive and makes the distinctions between defence and civil life as small as possible. Otherwise Elverum technical workshop must be allowed to remain a co-player for the region field and its use. When you've invested nearly 100 million. kr in this building and has a great competence among the employees, this must not be touched. That you can have small adjustments is okay, but besides it it must be the wrong use of resources to remove this. Otherwise, the bioheat project at Rena and the cooperation between the municipality, private and defence are exciting. I would also like to mention the warehouse at Hovemoen, which has been proposed for relocation – it has also been proposed to reduce activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e845	I mean, the defense, along with the police, is in a special position among public agencies. They are of political governmental power set to exercise power on behalf of society when it's the last resort. To think that these etats are going to get a larger amount of private actors, don't hang out for me. For the defence, this is related to the security policy tasks the defence is provided. One might wonder if the operation of canteens can be outsourced, but when this becomes wider, there will be a security policy issue. I am therefore quite clearly opposed to the privatisation that is taking place in the Defence Department, and have trusted that this is a tool for saving money. In the wake of privatisation, the idea arises that public and private actors can save money if they cooperate through various forms of so-called public-private cooperation. We know that the thoughts of OPS have been aired in other countries, among others. in the United Kingdom, but as far as I know, it took eight years to map the consequences of OPS solutions. When we know that the dokka at Haakonsvern was an important part of the defence-political agreement between the Government Party and the Labour Party, I find it strange that the Government Party and the Advance Party seem to separate teams from the Labour Party on this issue. The Labour Party believes that what was said during the spring management of the 2005-2008 Long-term Plan, namely that ‘Haa Konsvernner must be established, primarily under public authority, substitutively as OPS on Haa Konsvern’, should have our cover for a public-sector dock. It is therefore with wonder that I note that the Regeringen jumps over the primary position we agreed on in June. However, I am pleased that the plurality – Right, Christian People’s Party and the Progress Party – in its comments states that a OPS solution also opens in order that a private funding can achieve a larger and possibly more expensive dock, only the public’s share will be less than 235 million. kr. In the budget proposal, the Government proposed that the participation of private individuals should reduce public efforts accordingly. Now we have to get the job done, so that the dock is ready for one to do – and solve – the job with the frigates and the MTBs – and so that the dock is ready in Bergen, at Haakonsvern. This is the cross-political settlement in Bergen. Linked to public-private cooperation also comes responsibility for military bases. In the budget setting, the majority of the committee writes that the removal of base operations on Haakonsvern must be made consistent before this matter is brought before the Stortinget. Attempts to privatize base operations are also a field where social security can be incorporated into discussions. As I have understood in the media by the leader of the National Security Authority, the postponement of such assignments to private potentially very unfortunate. I am pleased to note that the principle of repurchase has been included in the purchase contract for the new frigates. This is exactly what we should take with us when it comes to the defence investments that we are facing in the future. The Stortinget will not take a decision on the purchase of fighter aircraft until the earliest in 2008. The purchase of fighter aircraft, if any, must also be subject to repurchasing requirements. However, in addition to this, it is necessary to lay down requirements for the actual repurchase. We also need to be able to further develop our high technology through development contracts with those who want to be current fighter aircraft providers to Norway. This requirement must be inconsequential. We also need to ensure that the contact with, and the requirement for, the flight providers concerned is equivalent, and that we have not engaged in a particular lease before deciding whether concrete purchases should be made. Finally, I would also like to mention that if we buy aircraft, we have to demand that the maintenance of the aircraft should take place in Norway. That's how we also think about frigate purchase, that it should be possible to maintain the frigates on a military base here at home. We should also invoke the same argument after a possible flight purchase. Also in maintenance, many jobs are important for Norway. Norway is an attractive customer for the suppliers of defence equipment, and we must make maximum use of that position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e868	Throughout the 1990s, the defence operated a conversion with wear and tear and sawing of the staff as the only result. Any experience of conversion work shows that this needs to be carried out quickly, so as to avoid screening. This has also been a guide to the conversion of the defence since 2001. Many of the defence employees are the biggest drivers of the high rate of conversion. Not least because of the extensive renewal of the defence, they find the defence an interesting and exciting job. Today, the army appears to be significantly less than before, but is more applicable than ever. The defence has never had greater forces that can be deployed at short notice in national and international operations. Personnel, both those under protection and those employed, are highly trained at new modern educational institutions, among others. in the case of Rena and in the case of Inner Troms, and the departments have been assigned to new and better material. Our international effort is great and continuous, and gives valuable experience to the Defense. A future defence of Norway will depend on our ability and willingness to develop and maintain capacities relevant to the alliance. This creates credibility. The quality of the defence is in the process of being developed promises that we will carry out the last part of the conversion period at a high rate and with the same high quality and production capacity requirements. This continues to involve hard work for the individual, often in an improvised environment, but towards a common objective that will provide a competent and modern defence, a defence that is designed and equipped to meet today’s and tomorrow’s challenges both nationally and internationally. As several representatives have done in the past, I would also like to address this with the fact that the Coast Guard budget has increased significantly in recent years. The government had also proposed an increase of 18 million. kr for 2005. The majority prioritizes further efforts on the Coast Guard by 10 million. kr. There's also an increase of 10 million. kr to the Marine Hunter Command Shooting and Training Field in Ramsund. These additional means ensure that the shooting and drill field of the Marine Hunter Command in Ramsund is equipped in such a way that the field meets the needs of the Marine Hunter Command and appears to be an attractive training field for special forces in allied countries. In addition, there is good reason to note that the majority today will decide that the new Homeland District in West Finland will be established in Porsanger. I know that the rapporteur in Porsanger, Bjørn Søderholm, is here, and I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate him very much for his excellent work on this matter. It is also worth noting that SV is proposing to cut the defence appropriations by NOK 3 billion. The center party is proposing to cut 500 million. kr. The so-called party responsible for the socialist government alternative, the Workers' Party, proposes to cut ‘only’ 300 million. kr. How much socialists are able to implement cuts in the country's defence budget if they come into government is uncertain. But we've noticed that the average of the three parties' cut proposals is on a staggering $1,267 billion. This paints a very small pleasant picture of the future for the Defense. Let's hope for our common insurance policy that it won't be a relevant issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e884	The challenges facing Norwegian defence are many. Major and substantial structural changes are being made in a relatively short time. One of the main challenges I think will be to create and continue to hold on to the legitimacy that Norwegian defence has actually had. The ability to turn – and sketch – the tasks of the Norwegian defence in the way you do, towards a modern, more flexible, more allianized defence as a security policy instrument, coupled with the fact that you actually operate rationally, will be important elements in terms of continuing to be a legitimate social actor. While the environment's expectations for defence are constantly changing, we also see an increasing expectation that the resources available to the defence are actually being used to the best possible extent. All suspicions of waste and rational management contribute to weakening the legitimacy of a defence that, in a new era and with new tasks, actually needs all the confidence it can have in the population — trust is indeed a good part of the defence capability. I am therefore pleased with the attitude of my own party, the Labour Party, today, among other things. in relation to the workshop activity associated with Østerdalen garrison and Rena clay. It is sad that the government – with the right central position, which has created slogans like: more for the money – does not follow up the comments of the Workers' Party, SVs and the Centre's party and suggestions on the workshop activity. In my opinion, this is precisely about the rational use of the defence economy. Significant funds have been used to set up a workshop both in Rena clay and in Elverum. The construction stop in the Rena camp workshop is anything but the rational exploitation of the defence resources. It is to hope that the government regardless of voting in the matter today, sees the advantage of continuing and completing the workshop activity in these two places. There is reason to remember that not only is it expensive to stop building and starting again, but it is also expensive not to bet, as has been done on the workshop activity in relation to heavy transport in Rena clay. In the long term, the risk of increased transport costs, increased environmental costs and, to the extent that it is a U.S. defence activity, will probably only make it more expensive. I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity when, after all, a budget is adopted for the defence of 30 billion kroner – a lot of money, which is to be spent effectively, but which needs the support and trust of the population – to give some consideration to the fact that everything is not black. I have visited both Rena clay, since it is in my own state, and these workshops. After all, there is a great deal of competence activity The defence is building up in Elverum, for weapons and vehicles. It must be the Defense at its best. It's very impressive, and it's a well-run workshop. I'm not so sure if many could have established such an activity equally well, equally cheaply and equally quickly. In fact, the defence must be commended for this establishment. It has significant competence, top technical equipment and must be of the best class. It may also have meaning in relation to civil activity. That there is at all a discussion also about the future of this workshop, I am very surprised that all the time the business was started last year after major investments. It's probably in a lot of ways saying something about the management problems that people out there perceive that you have in the defense. I would like it to be possible in time to put a stop to just such uncertainty debates that create a lot of uncertainty, among other things. for those who work in the Defence. For example, more people now have: focus on the new jobs both in the workshop in Elverum and in Rena, and there is a growing concern for employees with ongoing discussions about the future of their business, despite the recent opening up of large amounts of money. I strongly believe that the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence should ensure more predictability in the restructuring that is taking place. Overall, it's probably the most effective solution for the defense. The activities of the workshops in Rena clay and in Elverum should be well developed as a rational and well-assessed workshop solution for the Defence. In other words, we don't have to take all the debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e899	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e902	Østerdal Garrison has a practice area where heavy tanks train daily and increase the competence of military personnel. Sometimes even tanks, armoured carriages and heavy-duty vehicles must be repaired and maintained. In Rena clay, a top modern workshop has begun for several hundred million dollars. Now there's still a need for $40 million. NOK to put the workshop into service. I am pleased that the Workers' Party and the Centre have seen the need to complete this workshop. Even the Defence Logistics Organisation has said that this is necessary. Where are the other parties in this case? I note that several of the speeches in the debate have concerned the fact that the reduction made by the Workers' Party in the exercise field is going to be disastrous. But then I just want to ask if someone has been there and see what areas we're talking about. It could still be a good exercise area on Rena. Hedmark has representatives from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in the Committee, but these representatives did not support the proposal to grant 40 million. NOK – or reposition 40 million. kr – to complete the workshop so that the competence can be maintained and further developed at Rena. The alternative is to carry 50 tonnes of vehicles on narrow and heavily worked roads to the workshop at Trandum. In fact, the Right Representative from Hedmark has been out in the newspapers and assured that the workshop in Rena clay will be completed regardless of the 40 million. kr in this budget. It should really be able to calm me down. But if it is true that this was really a wish from the government parties and the Progress Party, I believe that then there should have been agreement and great support to grant 40 million. kr, so that the construction could be put into service as soon as possible. I welcome the fact that local representatives explain that roads in Hedmark and Akershus are being closed, that Minnesundbrua is being closed, and not least that they explain the environmental consequences of heavy fighting vehicles being carried on Rena trucks, where these vehicles are actually located and used. I am asking the State Council to confirm that the workshop at Rena is completed and put into service according to the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e919	A collective committee underlines in the setting that the Hovemoen makes at Lillehammer should be continued as a repository, customize the defence needs and with the necessary storage functions. There is a clear and clear message from Stortinget. That message was needed. That means that Hovemoen camp won't be laid down, or that the warehouse will be moved from Hovemoen into the Gardermoen area or wherever it is. It is, in my view, an important and correct decision. It's important to consider the Hovemo and the business associated with Hovemoen. But in my view, it is also important and appropriate to consider a future and effective logistics organisation, because the main arsenal of Lillehammer, with its competence, its modern technological installations, its local and geographical location, can best meet and defend FLO's need for cost-effective solutions. Here is the best tipping skill in logistics, and one of these has invested in the most modern and best stocking technology on the market in recent years. Here's good infrastructure, with proximity to road and track. The Committee has also previously found this by its self-esteem, and has once underlined this in this House. He has also previously stressed that the repository should be forwarded. So our commitment to Hovemoen doesn't just apply to workplaces related to Hovemoen, but it's also an engagement to get the best possible and effective FLO. A collective settlement bench from Oppland has also taken up this matter in a letter to the ministry – when I say a single deposit bench, it is included Right’s representative – and asked for such a solution as the committee now stresses here today. With what has been said in the settings, I now suggest that the things we have asked for are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e932	Then the Stortinget in spring treat St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004 on the further modernisation of the defence in the period 2005-2008, it became a majority to redefine the previous decision that the 337 Quadron should be located on the Sola. In the vote, the majority pointed to what is a very important point: Bardufoss has a central position in relation to the position of the Coast Guard in the north. Therefore, it is important that helicopters associated with the Coast Guard services in the north can use Bardufoss when not on board a vessel for maintenance under the direction of a supplier or under training. The majority said, among other things:\t\t You can change ‘The majority therefore want the new unit helicopters to operate on the North Coast Guard to be stationed on Bardufoss when not being trained or maintained under the direction of the supplier. The Ministry of Defence is therefore asked to ensure that such stationing can take place at Bardufoss and that a necessary management element is added to Bardufoss to ensure this.» The decision taken by the Storting should be clear enough. Nevertheless, many are in Trom's concern for the follow-up to this decision. Among other things, Lieutenant General Tomas Colin Archer has pronounced to Aftenbladet.no on 23 November this year: ‘The aim of the Sola base is to bring together the three squadrons in one place to maximise the synergy of the co-location’. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have found it necessary to insert a note in the budgetary position indicating that the 337 quadrant, including a management function, will continue to be based on Bardufoss, i.e. in particular: operation and training shall be carried out on the basis of Bardufoss. In the case of operations, at Bardufoss today there is a helicopter workshop with very high professional standards. Today, it is unnecessary to send parts to Rolls Royce, as you did before, because the mechanics at Bardufoss do the job just as well. It serves the defense a lot of money. However, if the workshop is to be maintained, the maintenance cannot be moved to the Sola. As far as training is concerned, it should be a matter of course that training takes place in realistic weather conditions in North Norway. In addition, the airspace above Bardufoss has few restrictions. I thought it was nice to hear that the Progress Party said that the 337 Quadron should be on Bardufoss, but what is strange then is that not the Progress Party, nor the government parties, can be on the note that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have inserted into the setting. I therefore hope that the Council of State can now at the end of the debate clarify that the Government is crystal clear that the 337 Quadron should be located on Bardufoss, including a management function, maintenance and training. If the Council of State cannot make such a clarification, she will unfortunately contribute to greater ambiguity, and I really hope that is not her goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e960	I continue where I left last, with the warehouse at Hovemoen, a warehouse that has been proposed moved or given reduced activity. Now let's hope that with the investments and competences that the warehouse has, and the service that this provides, you will find yourself at ease in the future. There's a lot of human competence here The defense needs, and then we have to take care of some of it. Fortunately, there was a common note on this. Furthermore, a lot of people got a little shock when we heard or read that the defense would chop up a rocket system that had a price tag of almost NOK 2 billion just seven years ago. This MRL battery is a very mobile weapon, and it has a big firepower, i.e. is a very useful weapon to secure our freedom. The weapon of the MRL is particularly well suited for fighting out enemy tanks and personnel. When you bought this weapon, it was meant to be a bearer in the defense of the country. In retrospect, the type of ammunition used has been banned, and that is perhaps where the idea of scrapping has come from. But going to the step of lifting this battery must be wrong. Then it must be more correct to rebuild it. The truth is, this is a very effective weapon. Such outputs as this, e.g. of course, these ideas of scrapping up create frustration both at employees and in the neighbourhood, and not least question the use of funds by the defence. We must be careful about this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e971	Just very short to Synnove Konglevoll. There is no uncertainty about the 337-square drone on Bardufoss. We have a crystal clear note on that, and we have also promised to come back to Stortinget with the matter. The ambiguity being created is to pretend that the government should have any other position than what we have expressed in this hall. With regard to the workshop at the Rena and the region field, I now have small ambitions at the end of the debate that we can get some clarification there. We've tried that multiple times. I respect that Hedmark Workers' Party in practice continues its work towards the region field. They have been against it all the time and have been discouraged – fortunately – by their own party. But now they're trying to give the impression that the cut is 200 million. as they propose for the area of the region, it is not significant, it is a direct error. I can hardly convince either Knut Storberget or Eirin Fallet, not to mention the calm Eirin Fallet, but I can recommend that they contact Defence Building, so they can get the facts. The reality is that it'll cost at least 100 million. to postpone the investment necessary to complete the field. And then I repeat, of course, there's a great need for a workshop when you can't get the tanks out into the outer classroom. That's logical enough. But it's not like we're saying anything about it going in that direction. On the contrary, if you read the comments from the government parties and the Progress Party, we explicitly say that Stortinget has approved a cost framework for workshop construction on Rena, and that the cost framework must be respected. If not, the money must be taken from other projects. We explicitly say that the Army will also in the future be centrally located in the East, if we get what we want with regard to the region field. And fortunately, we do. We will stress the importance of Rena having the necessary workshop capacity to meet the Army's needs. This is the attitude we have in these matters. What can create uncertainty for employees, uncertainty for the defence, is that there is an impression that there is such uncertainty, whether it is on Bardufoss or it is in Østerdalen Garnison. That uncertainty doesn't exist – it's just a fantasy fetus. And I don't think you do those who are engaged in the matter, some service by pretending that there's an uncertainty that's not there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e982	I still think it is wrong not to invest in new transport aircraft. I think I got a partially unclear response from the Council of State as to why she did not want to. She mixed transport planes and fighter planes, and I think we should both have. That we don't have it is because different governments have pushed on investments over the years. Now it's all coming at once. At the same time, I am pleased that we have reached a settlement with the Government, and we have received a budget that is the second best budget we could have. If we had gone for the Advance Party budget, of course, it would have been the best. But this was the second best. When the Council of State says that we did not have transport aircraft in the settlement negotiations, it is wrong. We had it in the main priorities, but it was rejected. We didn't get through to it. Just so it is said that we have made a proposal on transport aircraft, but that has not been included.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e991	I think maybe the representatives of the Right should have subdued something in some of the posts they've had tonight. The conrad says we're proposing to cut $300 million. kr. We're not proposing to cut anything tonight. We are voting in favour of the majority budget, and we are in favour of the majority vote. When Hernæs makes a point that if there is another government, we will get an average shot in Defense on – was it – SEK 1.3 billion, then Hernæs himself, excuse the expression, President, knows that it is nonsense! The Labour Party is committed to the defence agreement. Everything we have done in the harvest of the budgetary process lies within the 2005-2008 conciliation, and I would also like to add that the Labour Party is probably the only guarantor, alongside the government parties, of the structural changes that are actually in the June 2004 conciliation. So for privatization. In fact, the Council of State now stood on this pulpit and said that when Bjørn Tore Godal was Minister of Defence, there was much more privatisation, and much more privatisation, than what the current government is doing in Defence. That's why I've seen through St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001. On page 48, in the context of the exclusion of support functions as an instrument, it states, among other things. responsibilities and governance shall be maintained within the Defence. Of course, if the heavy maintenance division is split up into small limited liability companies and privatised, the liability and governance options are no longer internal to the Defence. This means that the current government and the Ministry of Defence are now going considerably beyond what both the Storting and previous government have said in terms of excluding support functions. In St. prp. 45 for 2000–01, it is also said that preparedness needs should be taken into account and that too much use of civil suppliers could lead to increased vulnerability. It is otherwise the same as the Chief of National Safety Authority stated in the latest edition of the Defence Forum. Furthermore, on page 48 of the Proposition, it also states that benefits and disadvantages should be assessed and legal, human and emergency aspects should be taken into account. Finally, I would like to comment on a proposal from the Central Party that is on the table, which is probably aimed at trying to find mechanisms to avoid misinvestment, and to look at what may have gone wrong in some contexts when the budgets are exceeded. The Labour Party supports the intentions of this proposal, but is a little uncertain about whether there is a commission we need, so we are not going to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1006	The problem with the type of misinvestment and overshooting that we have experienced, and a heavily altered cost picture that we see in a number of cases, is that this weakens the confidence of the Defense. And with respect to reporting, I also have to say that the defense's way of dealing with the kind of misinvestment that they show up does not contribute so much to correcting the impression. It is not very reliable when you first reject a notice that you have to cut something to say no, we are just going to upgrade the equipment to a few hundred million kroner. It is clear that for some other sectors that are also dependent on budget resources from the Storting, it seems rather remarkable that it should not be possible to have better control and better control of investment in defence than is currently seen in a number of cases. Compared to the examples I mentioned earlier, it could also have been said that the radar system was added to the Coast Guard, which we are also struggling with, which is also approx. 250 000 million. kr – a large amount in many other contexts. I have noticed that the Labour Party will not vote in favour of our proposal. I must say that I think that is a pity, because the Workers' Party's speakers have also stood here today and talked about large errors in defence as a problem. If you really mean anything by that, you should also vote in favour of this proposal, because I think it is necessary now that there are some outside the defense who are reviewing the causes of the misinvestment and looking at what can be done in the future to prevent that kind of misinvestment. That is what the proposal is really about – that you can appoint a sample or a commission that is on the outside of the Defence and Defence Department, which can go into the causes more closely and also look at the possibilities of preventing some of the conditions that we have seen. I honestly don't think it has any intention of converting the proposal for a transmission proposal. With the post that the Council of State has had, I have no expectation that a transmission proposal would have been followed up in any way, on the basis of the signals that have come from the Government. So I have to be allowed to say that this with the Army and the firing range is an interesting debate, because today it sounds as if there wouldn't be any army at all in South Norway if we hadn't had a shooting range on Rena. And then the question is, would we have had the army just one place in this country -- just one place, with 10,000 men or something like that? So when you had a mobilization defense, you were able to maintain an army without having established a large shooting field on Rena. But with that size army today, shouldn't you be able to do it? I expect that we would have been left with an army in Troms, and then we would have the management of the entire army at Linderud in Oslo. Is that how it would be? I think we're going to guard against the kind of exaggerations associated with being or not being for the Army's part and a field of defense that part of here has added up to today. Then I must also say to the Right Spokesman, in the end, that if the uncertainty about the Rena technical workshop and the 337 quadron did not exist, the Right could have alleviated the doubt that we have had about this, by contributing to a unanimous position in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1023	Did I understand that Bjorn Hernæs asked for the word? Bjørn Hernæs has had the word twice – in addition to all the lines – and gets the word for a very brief note.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1029	It's not subtraction for lines!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1036	Thank you for giving me the floor. I just want to replicate cards to Marit Nybakk: I take of course her insurance to my heart. I'm very pleased that it's coming, but I think she should also respect that we feel a concern when it's definitely a project initiated by her party's leadership to make government after a new election, with parties that have a different purpose for defence policy than what we've had in common. We're going to try to respect each other in this area. So short to Marit Arnstad: yes, then, we would probably have an army also in the East, but the cost of training that army when we had to transport every single man up to North Norway to get it done would be formidable.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1043	The Council of State mentioned that the defence would be almost closed with the SV budget. 30 billion dollars minus 3 billion dollars is equal to 27 billion dollars. It's probably not like that, $27,000 million. kr is nothing, as the Council of State stated. It's still like 27,000 million. kr provides an excellent defence, but perhaps with a few less unnecessary investments. The defense has a long history of irresponsible use of money. It keeps going, and it keeps going. The MRLS artillery system, which has been played out differently in the last few days, has been mentioned earlier during this large-scale period. I would just like to briefly note that the issue that was raised last time this weapon system was up to discussion was that the ammunition to be used was problematic in relation to international law, and, as far as I remember, more specifically the Ottawa Convention, and then they tried to develop another type of ammunition with fewer deadweights. I assume that the Minister of Defence has now made it clear that this ammunition does not exist and will not be provided. Then we have to be able to identify another misinvestment: a weapon system without ammunition. SV supports the proposal of the Central Party for a Commission. As regards the completion of the workshop at Rena, I would just like to repeat to Eirin Fallet that SV has also proposed in our alternative budget that the workshop at Rena be completed. SV is also involved in the majority comment together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party in this position, which arranges for this workshop to be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1054	Marit Nybakk has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1057	Just cards to the representative Bjørn Hernæs. The purpose of defence policy settlements, as the Stoltenberg government tried to achieve in the spring of 2001, but as we managed to complete in 2002, is precisely to ensure the stability of defence policy, regardless of government constitutions. Actually, the dream of wish would be what you have done in Denmark, where you have a full width between all parties in the Folketing. So it could be tempting to add that the Right Party actually sits in a government that probably has a suicide clause. In fact, this means that, despite the representative Hernæs having to feel that he is a member of the European Union, this government is now committed to not being a member of the European Union in Norway. So it's true that it's true for parties to disagree between themselves and still sit in government together.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1064	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 733]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1079	I will not use so many words on this matter. I just want to remind you of what I said both in 2003 and in 2002 when we dealt with the same issue, i.e. the redispatch proposition for the current year. There are still major differences between the budget adopted and actual consumption, and there is still reason to be alarmed at the large amounts flying back and forth in the redispatch proposal from the Ministry of Defence, both in terms of additions and deductions. It is also important in my opinion that the defence begins to take budgeting, householdkeeping of funds, financial planning and accounting seriously. I would like to point out that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs currently has a case, an observation, from the National Audit Office, which has not approved the accounts for 2003. I hope, when we get to this time of next year, that the National Audit Office will find no reason not to approve the accounts for 2004. In addition, a unanimous comitology ends with the amendments proposed, but, as I said, we would like to point out, and we also note that there are major differences between the adopted budget and what we are now actually deciding, i.e. the consumption that has been in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1092	I am pleased that the Committee unanimously subscribes to the Government's proposal, but I need to make a few brief comments on the regrouping proposal. This proposition is a central tool for ensuring good financial management in the defence sector, and the proposal itself intends to adapt the appropriations to the changed assumptions and strategic decisions taken during the financial year. It also provides room for strengthening the budget in important areas. I can mention the tug capacity in North Norway as an example. The reclassification proposition is primarily a technical proposition. What I want to emphasize is that the regrouping proposal gives us the opportunity to make optimum use of resources by taking into account the budgetary assumptions that normally change during the financial year. Most of this is technical adjustments, and in the last ten years there has never been as little regrouping in the defence sector as this year. It also includes, of course, all the years of labour party councils. In addition, we transfer less from one budget year to another than ever before. From 2001 to 2002, it had to be transferred DKK 1.8 billion from the defence budgets. Last year, it was 400 million. kr. This is due to better financial management. I think it's a pleasure to be able to tell you about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1101	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 739]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1109	We should then be ready to go to voting in case no. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1116	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bjørn Hernæs on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Marit Nybakk on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 3, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Committee on Progress and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 4, by Marit Nybakk on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 5, by Mr Kjetil Bjørklund on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 6, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party Proposals Nos. 1 to 5 is included in the adjustment, while proposal No. 6 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. The President shall make an attempt to guide the various parties in alternative and subsidiary votes. As regards proposal No: 5, it is directly linked to the budget and the budgetary balance sheet and, consequently, to the framework. In accordance with the legislation governing the budgetary procedure laid down in Section 19 of the Grand Duchy’s Rules of Procedure, voting is therefore not to be taken up and is to be regarded as lapsed. Proposals Nos. 2 and 4 respectively from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party and from the Workers' Party, must be seen in conjunction with the other chapters of the proposed majority proposal. These proposals deal with the redeployment of a total of three chapters, but they will remain within the framework and will therefore be voted on. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Six, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the setting up of an independent Commission to investigate the reasons why the defence has invested several times in new material that has become significantly more expensive than intended or that has become unusable in a short time. The Commission is invited to make concrete proposals on how to avoid such misinvestment in the future. ‘... The Socialist Left Party and the Progressive Party have warned that they want to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1164	I voted wrong. I voted in favour, but I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1171	Then there must be 59 votes against and 36 votes in favour of the proposal of the Central Party. This is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1174	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. Item 1 Operating costs, termination benefits are increased by NOK 16000000 from NOK 79000000 to NOK 95000000, Chapter. 1720 Item 1 Operating expenditure is reduced by NOK 16000000 from NOK 1278 558 000 to NOK 1 262 558 000 ’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1191	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the possibilities for sharing the purchase of new fighter aircraft and that the Government investigates the consequences of split-buy relationships with the current suppliers of new fighter aircraft.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1206	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 1710 Defence construction and new buildings and new installations entry 47 is amended by 40 million. kronor is transferred for the completion of the workshop in Rena Leir, while the transfer to Regionfelt Eastland is reduced by 40 million. crowns.’» The Socialist Left has announced here that they want to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e1223	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, the President will come back during the vote on the Roman Numeral proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e2793	Before we vote on the motion for a resolution, the President will make some corrections that the Chairman of the Committee presented in the debate. Under the hood. 1720 shall be NOK 1268 558000. Under the hood. Item 60 of 1795 shall be NOK 19 500000. The total expenditure, before the revenue chapters start, shall be NOK 30 909 467 000. It is then contested over Framework Area 8 with the underlying Roman numerals, I – XII, with the exception of IX, and with the corrections presented by the President. The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e2810	We still have to vote for IX in the setting. Paragraph 5 of IX contains an alternative proposal, proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. It shall be counted first above points 1 to 4 under IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e2824	The Committee's position at point IX(5) and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of Defence will be able to establish West-Finland Heimevernersdistrict 17 in 2005 with district losses on Porsangermoen.’ The President draws attention to the fact that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party are behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-02-2.ana.ud2335e3623	Case No. 10, Unit, deleted.
