ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e57	The former alternate of the Hordaland County, Rita Tveiten, has taken the seat of representative. The called alternate of the Akershu County, Harald Espelund, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e70	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e96	The examination of the case of aid to the shipbuilding industry has been carried out in the past, cf. St. pp. No 47 for 2002-2003. The matter was referred to the Committee on several occasions. When we treat St.prp today. No 50 for 2003-2004, it is a continuation of its support to the shipbuilding industry, given that the EU-South Korea case being dealt with in the WTO has not yet been clarified. More specifically, EU-South Korea issues fair and transparent competition conditions for the EU-South Korea shipbuilding industry. It applies to the introduction of temporary contract-related aid of a maximum of 6 pst. in the case of container ships, product and chemical tankers which one now wishes to extend from 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005. The scheme will be discontinued earlier if it is agreed in the EU. It is important to ensure that Norwegian shipyards competing in an international market have the same conditions and arrangements as their competitors in order to meet challenges and change. With regard to competition against the Korean shipyards, Norwegian shipyards still have opportunities by proposing that the Government ensure a level playing field between the shipbuilding industry in Norway and the shipbuilding industry in the EU by continuing a limited yard support scheme for container ships, product and chemical tankers of up to 6 pst. from 1 April 2004 until 31 May 2005, following the pattern of the regime currently open in the EU. This ends with the entire committee, and from the side of the Christian People's Party, we are very happy that this is being carried on. The Committee is also dealing with a matter of communication on shipping, where various challenges are also being discussed for the shipbuilding industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e104	It's a consensual committee that's behind the setting, so I'm not going to create any heated debate associated with this topic right now. I would just like to make it clear that the Committee has another matter for consideration on shipping, and that it is also natural in that context to look at any other proposal, just so that one does not in retrospect meet that one does not benefit from this opportunity to take up the yard support and questions relating to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e127	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e136	The scheme of seed funds was introduced in Norway in 1998. In the context of the State budget last year, a new round of seed funds focused specifically on underprivileged areas was given, in order to make a promise there as well. Now there is a proposal from the Progress Party to extend the first seed scheme by a further DKK 1 billion. The Committee has examined it and the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, wishes to postpone this decision to the State budget for 2005. We have asked the Government to come back with such a proposal if it is considered appropriate. I want to say a little about this with seed schemes and the background that we have had such an offensive attitude to it lately. There is a large shortage of capital in Norwegian business on the equity side. We have banks that are very careful, and we have a system through Innovation Norway that has also been moderated gradually. That means that there is a great need to raise capital to get the good ideas to become viable businesses. We in SV are very concerned that this must apply to the whole country. The first seed scheme that was established showed a significant investment in the central strata, while the more under-nourished areas, the so-called districts, received very little of the first seedlings. That is why we were very pleased that, in connection with the state budget, we were able to establish a four-seed fund scheme for the most underprivileged areas: one in the north, one in the west, one in the east and one in the middle of Norway. In that way, we hoped that those areas that have even worse opportunities to raise capital could also get the help they need to get good ideas. We therefore believe that we should look carefully at what is happening in these funds before we go into new rounds of funding for the original seed funds. However, we are willing to consider it when presenting the 2005 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e152	I believe that most of us agree with the proposers that it is time to set up a new, nationwide seed fund that also embraces those areas in Norway that are not covered by the regional schemes or funds. It shows the involvement of research communities across the country that we have recently experienced, whether they are established in universities or important knowledge environments. For Akershus' part, as I know well, today's situation has created major challenges, and according to several of the research communities around the county, there are now difficulties in providing risk capital. Since the treatment of the 2004 State Budget, where a change in the nationwide regime to enter the regional funds, the exposure has been high. In the Workers' Party, we also agree that a new seed scheme should be based on experience from previous schemes, such as: The START Fund. On this basis, we are very much in agreement with the Progress Party, but we believe that a Document No. 8 proposals are not the right way to promote such a case. For our part, there is no doubt that the government has to come back to the Storting in connection with the 2005 state budget with proposals for a nationwide seed scheme. However, we are uncertain about the device of such a system. From different environments we have received different suggestions for models. Therefore, we do not want to commit to a scheme now, but await a proposal from the Government based on the experience you have gained. In this connection, I refer to the comprehensive evaluation of the cereal arrangements carried out by Wassum Investment Consulting AS on behalf of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Let this be our justification that we do not support the proposals of the Progress Party, despite the fact that we also believe that a new, nationwide seed scheme should be established in the context of the 2005 State budget. We expect the government of the Council of State Gabrielsen to follow up the signals they will receive in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e169	There is no doubt that the Right wants more seedlings. We want it because it is the way to more innovation in this country. The Seed Funds reduce public private risk and help to trigger private investment capital for new projects. On the other hand, the right does not want a seed model based on Argentum's model. It will involve direct ownership of the funds through government deposits. The existing seed funds have private ownership. The State submits subordinated loans of the same size as the private equity capital. The state and the private thus contribute the same amount of capital. Right does not want more state ownership and goes against creating a seed fund according to Argentum's model. The most important thing in order to obtain more seed resources in this country is therefore to ensure that private capital is available. The rules on taxes on wealth in Norway mean that people’s savings do not flow as easily to investments in business as to investments in other objects. The taxes on wealth have a negative influence on the road choices of capital. The government's objective of a smaller state ownership is, among other things, related to: together with the Government's willingness and ability to develop a tax system that stimulates private savings, to private individuals' investments where the return potential is greater and to promote commercial risk. Although the primary function of the tax system is to finance the common tasks of society, the impact on the tax system is crucial for how businesses, owners and labour can in future contribute to the financing of the welfare level that society requires and that society needs. The tax system must be internationally competitive by stimulating labour efforts and the localisation of national and international private capital in Norway. It is necessary to link Norwegian system developments to the spe­cific challenges so that both start-ups and established enterprises can have increased access to capital in the future. Norway is in the special situation that the country is the dominant owner of business and the largest owner of Oslo Børs. The state has been, and is still, a great saver of financial capital, and the private financial assets are very small compared to the situation in the countries with which we compete. The Norwegian tax system must therefore be designed to provide incentives for the development of capital, business and ownership environments that, both in the long and short term, strengthen the development of enterprises. That brings up the Government's proposal for tax reform. The Norwegian wealth tax has several negative effects on the ability and willingness of owners to invest in industrial activities. It taxes family and other individuals’ economic assets regardless of whether or not the enterprises make profits. In practice, the taxes on wealth must be financed from the operations of establishments. It thus drains the holding of capital that could have been used for productive investment. It is fundamentally unfortunate for the choice of capital because it provides incentives for investments in consumption capital. It is also fundamentally unfair, because it discriminates against private Norwegian owners and favours foreign owners and state ownership. Most other countries have removed the property tax. Overall, property taxes affect both the relationship between public and private savings and the relationship between national and foreign ownership. The best and easiest way to fix it is by removing the property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e182	The fact that the Progress Party has promoted a proposal to set up a new, nationwide seed fund is that the first generation seed fund is in the process of being fully drawn up. This, in turn, means that a large number of the country’s development projects enterprises are unable to access seed resources. In this situation, we have an agreement between the Socialist Left Party and the Government on the district billion and new district funds aimed at enterprises located in the most underprivileged areas threatened by depopulation. There is a strong need for seed capital at an early stage for high-technology projects. Seedicides can provide a risk-absorbing tool for private, competent owners to invest in an earlier phase than they would otherwise have done. What many entrepreneurial environments want is a boost for seed activities through a new, nationwide seed fund. Then it will be the goodness of the projects that will determine who will gain access to risk capital, regardless of whether they are located in Namsos, Dombås, Dokka, Hammerfest or Oslo. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has had Wassum Investment Consulting evaluate the five-year-old seed scheme. It is recommended that the Ministry should not bind seed funds to underprivileged areas, but to managers and funds close to research and university environments, irrespective of location. There should be funds that have no regional constraint. The recommendations in the evaluation report are very clear. The existing government risk-absorbing model cannot be copied into a new set-up of seed funds with the participation of private investors. The State should become a shareholder in the Seed Funds. In this way, the State will have better influence over the activities of the Funds, and this form of ownership is more dynamic than subordinated loans, where ownership of a loan contract needs to be regulated to a greater extent. To avoid problems of direct ownership, Wassum Investment Consulting recommends a fund-to-fund model in which the State is a direct shareholder or lender to a state seed fund, which again invests in other seed funds. This is precisely a model proposed by the Progress Party. We believe that an early-stage nationwide scheme should be established on the same template as Argentum Fund Investments. As far as possible, the systems and competences built up in Argentina should also be used. I mean, this is done a good job so far. Strong demands have been made for quality, and a process has been launched that will lead to a leveling up of the venture capital industry in this country. A nationwide seed scheme should therefore be a fund-to-fund scheme in which an independent and independent organisation, à la Argentum, invests in qualified management environments that will make investments in the seed phase. The United States has had this scheme since 1958 through its Small Business Administration scheme. It appears to have been a major success and is now being used as a template for how the EU should adapt its seed schemes. Several public and private delegations from Norway have been on a study trip to the United States and have become familiar with the scheme. It should also be emphasised, in the interests of the ESA legislation, that a new seed scheme must, of course, be adapted to existing schemes in the EU. The Progress Party is disappointed that the majority of the Economic and Social Committee is in favour of rejecting the proposal without even proposing alternative proposals. Thousands of enterprises today have no means of accessing seed capital for their development projects. The government does not make concrete promises about a new fund in the government budget for the autumn, it only undertakes to make assessments. That means new uncertainty, and it's going to add up to the cut of 188 million. kr for Innovation Norway in the revised budget. The country’s largest business organisation, NHO, also recommends a new nationwide seed fund as a main priority in the 2005 state budget. We understand that it may be divided opinions as to which model should be chosen for a new seed fund, but we thought it would be possible, in the interests of the many companies that could be affected, to bring together a majority in the Committee behind a united and concrete proposal to set up a new nationwide seed fund in the 2005 state budget, as a time horizon. I would like to include the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e201	The representative of Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e204	Representatives Øystein Hedstrøm and Lodve Solholm ask the Government to establish a new, nationwide seed fund in this proposal, Document No. 8:61. It is natural to address this issue in the ordinary budgetary process, and it has been said by the Government that they will assess. Norway has a small and open economy. We have natural resources and a high population outnumbered. We have all the possibilities to succeed. But we have a high cost level and an innovation rate that is not high enough in relation to our trading partners. The sum of these factors makes us notice competition strongly. Innovation is a commitment that must be in place to meet the future challenges we face when it concerns our welfare needs. The EU, which is our closest market, has an ambitious Lisbon strategy. Their goal is to become the most competitive economy in the world. It could provide a good synergy effect for Norwegian value creation. Nevertheless, there are also many challenges in industrial policy, challenges that are not so different from our own. Our government takes this seriously. This is the background to the Innovation 2010 strategy. Available capital is a theme that does not escape innovation. There are therefore important challenges facing representatives Hedstrøm and Solholm on this occasion. At the same time, there are no unknown thoughts and needs. In the 2004 draft budget, the government pointed to the need for seed capital just to commercialise results from universities and other knowledge environments. It's important that we get an increased degree of commercialization of research. Then your funding is decisive. I look forward to the assessment that comes into the budget of the autumn, where the basis and arrangements of a possible nationwide seed fund will be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e217	There is no doubt that this type of capital injection to enterprises in a seed phase is needed. In my opinion, it is positive that the START fund is fully signed. There should certainly be a basis both for the continuation of and restocking of capital to existing funds and for the creation of new funds. When the Central Party participates in a majority, it is for the simple reason that we believe that this makes sense to consider in the context of the annual budgets rather than in the light of such a proposal. There should therefore be a basis for reconsidering this until the autumn, in order to assess the operation of the Fund under the report prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, and not least on the basis of the performance of the four regional seed funds established in less-favoured areas, in order to make possible adjustments in the risk-sharing between the State and private funds if it is difficult to invest the capital invested in the funds. In this context, it is not difficult to join the majority voting. But on the basis of the statements made by the representative Momyr, there is reason to say that one may be appalled by the fear of the Right's frontierless state when an entire post is used to argue why the state should not enter this type of fund. Because that's not what this is about. The state is a major owner of business and will be a major owner of business in the future. The problem with the Right Business Policy is that you sell out companies where the state has a joint ownership, and then you relocate the income you get from a sale into ownership of foreign companies. We have gradually invested around NOK 1000 billion in the oil fund, a large part of which has been invested as holdings in various companies around the world, while at the same time we very much do not have a Norwegian bank service anymore, while important farms and other companies that are central to the development of the nation are sold out. That's one side of the weakness of Right Business Policy. On the other hand, it will be absolutely essential that the State participates in seed funds, venture funds and in various forms of business innovation. This does not happen primarily by means of tax relief, but by means of the fact that the State also contributes capital. It is therefore necessary to use funds both for Innovation Norway, for Seed Funding and for other types of schemes to accelerate innovation in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e226	I’m sorry I was so breathless when I had to hand over the propositions, but it’s not every day that I’m jogging from Aker Brygge to Stortinget, either! The government has been – and is – aware that there may be a need to provide the business with competent risk capital, particularly in key areas. It is primarily in the start-up phases, when ideas are developed and a company is on the verge of commercialisation, that there can be a basis for a state offering of risk capital. This need is addressed in the Government's Plan for a Comprehensive Innovation Policy and in the Government's Declaration of Accession, the Sem Declaration. It is therefore an important matter that is addressed, and I have taken note of the views expressed in the proposal by the representatives Hedstrøm and Solholm. Today, we have an instrument that takes care of some of the considerations set out in the proposal. There are two State/semi-State equity instruments to meet the need for risk capital for business, insofar as the market does not cover it on its own. These are the Seed Schemes and Argentum Fund Investments AS. In addition, Innovation Norway provides grants, guarantees, risk loans and low risk loans for industrial activities. In the 2003 and 2004 budgets, a total of four regional seed funds were adopted, each receiving 200 million. kr in State-owned loans and 50 million. In the case of a loss fund. This size of the funds is linked to the fact that the five regional funds of the existing seed scheme are too small to operate effectively in the management of the capital. Furthermore, the Government has reduced the interest rate conditions for the State's subordinated loans to these funds in relation to the already operational funds. This has been done to make the arrangement more attractive to investors. The interest rate is now 12 months NIBOR + 1 percentage point. In today's interest rate market, that means 3.4 pst. The four new funds are expected to be operational from the turn of the year 2004/2005. The funds could invest in most small and medium-sized enterprises in their respective fields of application. This means, among other things: projects originating from research environments in Tromsø may be the relevant investment objects of the Nord-Norway fund if the projects are good enough. The current operational seed funds covering the key struts, and thus most university and knowledge environments, are in practice fully invested. These funds cannot, in substance, make new investments. If we are to succeed in becoming among the world's most innovative and innovative nations by 2010, this part of the value chain must also be in place. However, I am concerned that the seedlings should not only be available to universities. The funds must be able to invest in a wide range of good business ideas that need seed funding. Only in this way can we ensure that the projects that have the highest value creation potential are realised. This can be achieved by providing professional independent managers with good experience with the management of a nationwide seed scheme. In terms of industries to invest in, I think it might be a good idea to pick out industries where we already have strong business environments today. This can help both to reduce the risk in the fund and to further develop these environments. However, which industries it would be right to invest in must not be left to the State alone. We also need to exploit the skills of investors and administrators. The present proposals involve state equity investments in industry funds. This means that the state will have a direct ownership of the fund's portfolio companies, which I believe has worrying aspects, which also have to be taken into account. Furthermore, I believe that we should have higher ambitions for private participation in the funds. Investors must have the right incentives to participate in such a scheme. We cannot make it risk-free for investors and administrators to have access to government funds. In addition, the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, has as its starting point that the EFTA State cannot participate by more than 50 pst. by the capital of such fund structures if invested in key strokes. I agree with the representatives Hedstrøm and Solholm that it is important to ensure access to seed capital in the innovative industry. It would be natural to consider a new nationwide fund within the framework of the State budget for the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e250	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e253	Last year we lost 17 000 industrial jobs in our country, approx. 50 a.m. It lacks almost a parallel in Norwegian industrial history. Then the Government and the Prime Minister followed up with a programme – Innovation 2010. But business is starting to get worried. So first of all, it's going to cut 188.3 million. kr in the revised budget. Innovation and internationalisation are emerging for small and medium-sized enterprises. Then, when examining the proposal, one does not want to say anything other than an assessment of a national seed fund. Is it not for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade to be a little more specific about this, so that the companies that want access to this capital, and which can contribute to strong value creation for Norway, can get something more concise to stick to and can rely on the Government in terms of Innovation 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e260	The representative Hedstrøm is quite right in describing the decline in the number of industrial workplaces that was. But there is no one who, as far as I have seen, has pointed out that the absence of seed capital was the cause of this. The decline was, of course, primarily linked to the fact that we had a level of interest and a dollar price – and had a wage increase – that was completely out of line. The government has taken up the big challenges of getting these things on track, and as most people have registered, there we are in the process of succeeding. With regard to the revised national budget, it has been the government’s starting point that the most important thing, too, was to ensure the overall continuation of the results achieved, where fiscal policy has been an important contributor. The representative asks if I can be more specific. In a letter to the Committee, I have confirmed that the Government will make an assessment, based on evaluations, of the needs we have, and what we are discovering in the rounds we are now doing with regard to the district funds, and come back with it in the budget. We're also going to have some good pieces for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e269	The President doesn't doubt that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e272	The councils were in on this with district-oriented seed schemes, and that the government was concerned about having to get a seed scheme that embraces the whole country. We know that these four seed funds are now being set up, and the Council of State itself has been in Central Norway and has started the first. It must also be launched in North Norway, in the west and in the east. My question to the Council of State is: are these seed schemes being set up so that business can access capital relatively quickly? Or are there problems with raising private capital, so that this money becomes operational? Otherwise, I am glad that the Council of State has begun to trim, and hope that he will continue with it in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e281	The President says "no comment", but gives the word to the Council of State Gabrielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e284	We're going to leave the comments for the trim. We're just going to enjoy letting go of smoking indoors. It would help on the cushion if one had to trim. The representative Ryan asks if we're on track with these regional seed funds. The answer to that is yes. We had the first meeting in Namsos, where other representative Ryan was present. The conditions we have created in total were to ensure that business and investors are interested in them. I have also created a liberal interpretation of what is private capital, so that I would think it would be possible to establish them. I believe that it is important, if we are to establish a nationwide scheme, that we can continue to do so according to the corresponding model, by establishing seed funds, where the state is involved in responsible loans, and where we share the risk with private investors to get a critical assessment of the projects that have to be submitted. I think that's the wisest thing in the future, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e293	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e298	The representative, Enoxen, used a large part of his post to talk about what he thought was a ‘state terror’ from the Right. He spoke intensely about it, not so that I was frightened, but so that I found reason to comment on it. I just pointed out in my article the fact that we have an unusually high proportion of state ownership in Norway compared to the countries we compete with, and the countries that it is natural to compare with. We also know that state ownership has not always shown equally impressive results. Right is a member of seed funds, but for us it is important that we balance the state capital with private capital, and thus private governance. In this way, I am pleased with the contributions of the Council of State, where he is doing well to ensure that we will have a review of the Seed Fund scheme that we have. However, I used a large part of my post to talk about the property tax. I hold fast to the fact that we must pay equal attention to the wealth tax, because I am absolutely sure that removing the wealth tax will give us as good incentives as good seed fund schemes for innovation in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e309	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e325	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e341	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e357	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e373	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e381	Then Stortinget went to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-01.ana.ud741e410	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a new nationwide seed fund based on a fund-to-fund model with a total management capital base of 1 billion. krones. The Fund shall be allocated the necessary resources to the State budget for 2005.’.» Alternatively, this proposal and the setting up of the Committee will be rejected.
