ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e28	The representative of Marit Nybakk, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Morten Lund on leave from 18 October to 11 November, and from the representatives of Anne Berit Andersen, Haakon Blankenborg, Per Roar Bredvold, Sverre J. Hoddevik and Jan Sahl on leave from 18 October to 12 November – all for participation in the 59th ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations, Part Two, in New York from the representative Karin Andersen on leave from 19 October to 21 October in order to take part in parliamentary days under the direction of the Interparliamentary Union at the 59th General Assembly of the United Nations in New York On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For the West-Agder province: Åse VerslandFor the Hedmark province: Helge Bjørnsen and Johnny HultFor the Nordland county: Kari ØklandFor the Uppland county: Reidun GravdahlFor the Sogn and Fjordane counties: Mathias RåheimFor the South-Trøndelag county: Karin Galaaen3. Johnny Hult is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative of Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e106	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen are unanimously elected as chairman of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e116	Arne Sortevik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e119	On behalf of Gjermund Hagesetter, Harald T. Nesvik, Øyvind Vaksdal and myself, I have the honour of presenting proposals on the choice of target use in public service, so that hospitals can continue to call themselves hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e124	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner – in both forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e148	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Councillor Laila Dava State Councillor Torild Skogsholm Councillor Børge Brende The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main question, from the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e167	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Transport. Flight safety shall be ensured. Now many people in Norway wonder if it is safe to travel by plane. There are many relationships that are playing, the threat of terror, that we saw in Narvik a little while ago, the competition between the airlines, which is in the midst of difficult transitions, and the conversion of the Air Safety Authority and Avinor AS. The Air Safety Authority and Avinor AS have direct responsibility for the State Council, even though it tried to debt the Stortinget for a good week on television. I can tell you that Stortinget has been informed that everything is very well. No action has been proposed or a request for an unsupported crown has been made. So the Council of State has full responsibility for the safety of the air. I want to ask her to take care of what initiative she has taken and will take to ensure that there is no problem, and that no difficult processes run into security. In the Working Party, I'm worried.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e181	When we start conversion processes, there are two special points that are important for this government. The first is that we have to have security at least at today's level, and the second is that we have to have a service to the inhabitants of the country that is at least at today's level. We are faced with great change and great need for change. Within the sector for which I am responsible, I can mention the changes that have taken place and are ongoing, within the Post Office, within the State Road Service and within Avinor. If we are to continue to live in and use our entire long-range country, we need to adapt our activities and our offers to today's situation. That is to say, as authorities, we need to ensure that good, safe and reasonable offers are provided throughout the country. It's getting pretty heavy, I think, running district policy if we don't take such conversion needs seriously. In relation to the specific issue of aviation safety: we have two institutions that alone have safety as the only area in which they have focus. It's an oversight, and it's the Harvari Commission. It may be known that work has been started in the Harvari Commission to review whether the safety and safety aspects of conversion processes are well enough. There are conversion processes in supervision, in Avinor and in the companies. Then I would like to remind you that the price of the measures that have been implemented, or that are now implemented, in terms of security, within what we call security, is approximately. 650 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e194	I thank you for your answer. Of course, we agree on the goal of security, as the Council of State has now said. What she said a little bit about was trouble. We in the Labour Party are concerned that the number of controls that the Air Traffic Control is conducting is falling, and that the number of deviations and problems they find per person. control, going up. It also worries that there is a total loss of trust between those added to Avinor AS and the rental. Now, fortunately, it also seems to be troubling the leader of Talleraas. My question to the Council of State is, Does it worry her, and will she do anything more to remedy this? I read that Talleraas has stated that there is no evidence that these cooperation problems are solved in security. I hope we don't get this kind of evidence before we take this seriously. Does the Council of State take this seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e203	When we start this review at the Havari Commission, it's because we're making all the recordings about security in the utmost seriousness. We're not allowed to take chances in that area. That's why we've started that review right in the Havari Commission, which specializes in security, and which therefore has a portfolio that's going to look after oversight and make sure that the actors that it's about actually take this seriously. With regard to cooperation problems in Avinor, there is also reason to take it seriously, and the board does. The board has grasped this. They have a review of forms of cooperation and cooperation challenges. I trust that the board has both grasped this constructively and will follow this up constructively.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e210	There will be three follow-up questions – first Tor-Arne Stroem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e213	There are many paradoxes here in life. In Avinor, they've spent $44 million so far. kr on consulting services. On an annual basis, it may be approx. 60-70 million. kr. But this is just vision. At the same time, we know that people are cancelled, with or without a final package. These are people who might even be able to do the tasks that hired consultants do. Does the Minister for Transport think that this is in keeping with the fact that this situation is linked?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e218	I just want to remind you that when the Bondevik II government took over, we were in a situation where flight prices were very high. We had a situation where there was very little competition in aviation, and it was a unison attitude that we had to do something to bring down the costs of aviation. We did that immediately. We removed a fee like burdened people throughout the country. We had already seen that we had an organization within Avinor that was dimensioned for a completely different extent of aviation than what we saw then. This had to be taken into account, and we got the organization of Avinor that we have per. today. It is the Board that has the daily responsibility for the proper operation, including the extent to which it chooses to use consultants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e224	Geir-Ketil Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e227	SV suggested to us that the safety part of Avinor, that applies, among other things. the management centres and control towers should be separated by the company and placed directly under the Ministry of Transport. We believe that that part of aviation is so important that it should not be in an AS, which should be self-financing and answer for return requirements. The proposal has gradually received broad support, most recently in the evening post yesterday, where they write that they hope that the many problems in aviation will recently have government and accumulation to look at the construction of Avinor. Is the Minister for Transport willing to consider withdrawing the security section of Avinor to protect it from excessive budget cuts and downsizing?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e234	Norway was one of the first countries to separate safety inspections from operational operations. It was a very important step to take; we just have an external institution that makes sure that security is being properly followed up. It was an important grip. What the representative here is asking is whether we should go ahead with this and take out some parts of the operations that are related to security. When we had the Aviation Agency – before we established Avinor AS – this part was still an integral part, including the air traffic controller service, to call it that. At that time, the inspection was also part of the Aviation Agency. We chose to separate it out just because we're going to have a completely different focus on security than what we've had before. Then again, I would like to remind you that the Commission has a review of the safety of a conversion phase to see if it is well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e243	Jorunn Ringstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e246	We all know that major and extensive reorganisations are taking place in Avinor. Yes, there are a few of those who work in Avinor, who don't get to do any of the conversions. People who are busy and who have knowledge of the work environment and change in different organisations have asked questions about whether there is not too much and extensive change in Avinor in a short time. We also know that changes create basic insecurity throughout the corporate culture. We also know that big changes have great human and social costs. It is important to add them to the team when implementing the conversion, and it is important that they are given ownership of what is going to happen. Does the Council of State understand that the turbulence created in Avinor may have something to do with the process itself? Does the Council see that things could be changed, and how will the Council of State as responsible for aviation grasp this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e255	To the question of whether this takes a short time: it's very difficult to say. Now the board has a review of cooperation. I know that in this context, interviews will be conducted by very many interested people, both employees, management and the board. Then I expect that such things will be revealed, and that the board has the opportunity, if necessary, to adjust the way it handles this. I have no background to say that this could be handled in another way per. today. I think it is important that, in all such stages of conversion, we constantly seek to have the right organisation. It is enough that we are in the midst of a major shift – not only in this sector, but in many sectors we will have it in the future too – in order to be able to conduct a good rural policy here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e262	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e265	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. Again, the Government creates unforeseeable conditions for the state companies. Four months ago, with the support of the government parties, the Stortinget determined that the standard rules of the Share Act should apply to dividends in State power. Nevertheless, the Government is now proposing to reverse this decision before it has been introduced and proposes a dividend for State power at a level that is pure mistreatment. So my question to the Council of State is: why do you now want to go against what you said four months ago was in front of, and that the then Minister of Economic Affairs of the United Kingdom promised to follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e272	Government power has reduced its dividend requirement in the budget submitted by the Government. Last year, a dividend was imposed on State Power of 95 pst. of the surplus. This year, the Government is adding to reduce this to 78 pst. It implies that State power will retain $1 billion of its profits if it is adopted. In addition, I would like to draw the attention of the representative Hedstrøm to the fact that in 2003 the Stortinget chose to donate EUR 4 billion to Statkraft. So, in a total of one year, State power will have increased its equity by NOK 5 billion if the government's proposal goes through, that is, 20 pst. strengthening of equity over a very short period of time. I know of a few other companies that are in such a comfortable situation, and that also have so much capital to invest, at the latest shown by the fact that Statkraft made a strategic investment in Sweden, a larger purchase of an energy company.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e279	I note that the Council of State does not want to respect the decision taken in Stortinget, also with the support of the government parties. But it won't stop here. In the case of the document fee, a unanimous collapse said that it would compensate Statkraft in the same way as it has been done with former state companies. It was also said that forced sales in the State power imposed by the Competition Authority should not be included in the dividend calculation. In both of these cases, the government now opposes. My question is: do you want to mess it up for Statkraft? Would you not respect the majority in the UK who want this company to develop in the Nordic countries and Northern Europe, so that Norway can have that place in Europe it deserves as an energy storm power?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e286	Norway is already an energy storm power in the European context. We are the world's sixth largest hydropower producer, and we are the third largest exporter of oil and gas in the world. State power is in a very comfortable capital situation and has increased its capital by NOK 5 billion in a year. I also register what the representative Hedstrøm says that he is not satisfied that the government has proposed a reduction in dividends from 95 pst. to 78 pst. for the next year, and he is not satisfied that the State does not compensate for NOK 1.5 billion paid in the document fee. The government has proposed to cancel the two proposals that the Stortinget made at this point, because we believe that State power already has enough capital. But of course, the Storting is free to change this and add State Power extraordinarily NOK 1.5 billion, and then take out less dividends than what we've posted. We will of course take note of that. But we made our best proposal in relation to the state power situation now, also taking into account a value-creating ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e296	There will be four follow-up questions – Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e299	There was a rather tough debate in Stortinget when we discussed the transformation of State power into a limited liability company. One of the things that was quite clear was that if you were going to make some kind of sale, the matter would be brought before Stortinget. Then, right after the decision is taken, we experience that State power in Rana leases or rents out parts of its power to a foreign company, a Finnish company. Does the Council of State think that it is a mistake on the part of the Council of State to actually go beyond a ten-year contract and lease or lease parts of its power resource? Isn't there some sort of circumvention of the decision taken by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e306	This question concerns something other than the main question. In the case of the Storting decision relating to the transformation into AS, I fully respect it. Of course, any sale due to strategic constellations or solutions that Statkraft would like should be submitted to the Stortinget. The government has no plans about it at this point, and I'm not familiar with that kind of plans. With regard to the ability of the company to handle continuously what is required in a commercial market, it is the responsibility of the board of directors and the administration. They must have the same opportunities as the other companies they compete with. With regard to the specific matter raised by the representative, about the leasing of power from Mo in Rana, I do not know it, but I can come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e317	Odd Roger Enoksen – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e320	When the Storting decided to strengthen the equity of State power by NOK 4 billion, it was a deliberate choice to strengthen the sovereign power's credit rating. It was also a deliberate choice when Stortinget decided that the normal provisions of the Share Act should be used as a basis for dividends. In that case, the Minister of Industry has little to do with the argument that the yield will be lower this year than it was in the previous year. This creates uncertainty about the future of the company. It creates uncertainty about the political framework conditions and how government and enlargement will treat this company, which is an important player in Norwegian energy policy. I am pleased that the Progress Party addresses this question. This suggests that at least the Progress Party has not intended to use dividend policies to sub-privatise State power. So my short question is, is there a thought in the direction that the Minister of Industry is now making himself a spokesman for, that you want to share the company and use a tough dividend policy to get it done?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e327	First, I agree with the representative of Enoksen that Statkraft is an important player in the Norwegian energy market with the production of 40 TWh electricity per year. They are also an important player in the international context. But I cannot agree that a company that has been strengthened its equity by 20 pst. in the last year, is a company that creates uncertainties around it. I have to respectfully report that if there is uncertainty about the company, it may be those who now claim that there is a reduced dividend claim from the Government, from 95 pst. to 78 pst., which creates that uncertainty. State power is in a comfortable situation. They're good with capital. They can make the strategic assessments and the advances they want, at the latest through a large purchase of a Swedish energy company. What the government has done is to present what we think is the right dividend policy for the company, also taking into account the budgetary situation we are in, and proposing that the two decisions taken by the Stortinget be lifted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e332	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e335	As far as I know, the Stortinget has stated that in the case of State Power, it is the normal provisions of the Share Act that must be complied with. If I am not mistaken, that means that it is the board that makes proposals to the general meeting about dividends, and that the general meeting can reduce the dividends, but not increase it. Does the government now propose that if the board is on its statutory and statutory rights and its obligation to care for the interests of the company and cancels a 50 pst dividend to the general meeting, which is normal, and as the Stortinget has also said, is it the intention of the council to throw the board and find a board that does as the owner says, on the telephone or in other ways? My second question concerns the document fee. Is it therefore to understand that it becomes common practice that instead of making proposals or asking cabinet questions when the Stortinget takes a decision The Government does not have the intention to follow, but will propose to repeal later, will a decision by the people and everyone else be seen as a resolution and not as a decision by the Government to follow? [[The President clubs.]] Is the Council of State afraid that his behaviour will lead to the state becoming a miserable owner of some companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e344	The President reminds us that speaking time applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e347	First, I would like to repeat that I do not think the state has been a bad owner here. On the contrary, we have strengthened the company's equity by 20 pst. the last year. In the case of dividends, it is established in accordance with the corresponding provisions for public limited-liability companies, as laid down in the fourth paragraph of Section 20 of the Share Act, that the owner provides for dividends in state enterprises, so that the State is free to do so. There is a special provision relating to the State undertakings. This will be finalised by the Storting through the two proposals that the Government has made and the dividend requirement that the Government has also proposed. We think it's a reasonable suggestion that State power will be left with $1 billion in addition to the four that they are extraordinarily fed. If Stortinget believes that this is too tough a profit claim, and that Statekraft should be added a further NOK 1.5 billion as compensation for the document fee, the Stortinget is free, of course, and we will also live with that. It is as part of the budget negotiations. This would also allow the provisions of the State Enterprise Act to be used to determine the dividend directly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e356	Grethe Fossli – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e360	It was four months since the Stortinge took a position on the two questions referred to by the Council of State. My question is then: what has changed since the four months that makes the government ignore the decision of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e365	First, I have to remind the representative that this year the Government has chosen to base a lower dividend charge, 78 p.m., while the requirement when the Government made a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party last year was 95 p.m. Then it is that if the parties find NOK 2.5 billion that they are going to pay for the crown, which is going to reduce the dividend charge and compensate for the document fee, I look forward to the discovery of it during the budget negotiations. But I record that there is a great interest in this issue, and that the Stortinget has prioritised having a comfortable capital situation in Statkraft. I agree, and that is why the Government is also adding up that they will retain NOK 1 billion of their dividends. As I have said on several occasions, they have increased their equity coverage by 20 pst. What other Norwegian companies are in such a comfortable situation? Here, there's something about maps and terrain that doesn't go completely together.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e372	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e375	I want to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs a question. "No one here knows I don't dare sleep." It's a quote from a 15-year-old asylum seeker at an asylum reception in Norway. There has now been a report by Redd Barna on the situation of minor asylum seekers at reception in Norway. This report substantiates what SV has pointed out several times in this room, as stated in communications and various proposals, at the latest in St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002 on the protection of children and young people. Lone minor asylum seekers under 18 years of age shall be protected by child protection when they come to Norway. Lone minor asylum seekers are entitled to and entitled to the same public care as other children growing up in Norway. Discrimination is contrary to Norwegian law and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Governments accept that the Children’s Convention is being broken and that children with traumatic backgrounds live without the necessary protection in Norway. What action will the Council of State take following the report of Redd Barna?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e382	Strictly speaking, asylum policy falls within the remit of the municipal and regional ministers, but I would like to respond to the fact that the proposal from the Redd Barna report also concerns the protection of children. First, I would like to say that the last two years have been working systematically on quality improvements in the offer to lone minors, while Redd Barna has produced her report. 26 different projects and improvement measures are under way. It has also been suggested in the past, for some years ago and in recent years, by Redd Barna that child protection institutions should take care of minor asylum seekers. So far, neither previous governments nor this government have said that they have wanted to do this, but the minor asylum seekers should be doing well in Norway. In the last few years, two receptions have been set up specifically for minor asylum seekers under the age of 15. So they live in their own reception. There's no adults there. There are separate requirements and specifications for the receptions. There are highly qualified staff, both with a refugee background and with child-care skills, even some have also acquired psychiatric expertise. Better arrangements for auxiliary workers are being worked on. Children’s, youth and family directorates work together with the UDI to make life even better for minor asylum seekers. I could mention several measures. I'm not going to do that. Some of the reasons why it has not been said so far that these children should be brought directly under child protection have been the problems associated with, among other things. age. It turns out that of those who have been tested, who have said that they have been minors, 80 pst. not have been so. Then one must also examine whether they have parents. Once said, we will read this report carefully. Of course, we are going to review the proposals in the report that is now available from Red Barna.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e395	I have slept quite poorly after reading this report, and I believe that the Council of State has also done so. We've actually decided in this room several times that these children are to be covered by the Children's Protection Act. We did so by 11 February 2003 at the latest. Then a majority in this Chamber decided: ‘During 2003, the Government asks for an opinion on the Child Protection Act to be amended to ensure that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers under the age of 18 are protected by the Child Protection Act on arrival in Norway in line with the single Norwegian child.’ In the past, stronger decisions have been taken in this Chamber. This has not been followed up by the Council of State. There are no authorisation schemes. There are no supervisory arrangements. These kids are living under unworthy conditions. Doesn't the Council of State mean that there's a violation of the Children's Convention and Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e407	I think it must be a misunderstanding here. It is true that Redd Barna says that there is a lawless state of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers in reception, and that the Children's Convention and the Child Protection Act do not apply to these children. But this isn't right. In fact, both the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Child Protection Act apply to all children living in Norway, including lone minor asylum seekers. Any contact with the protection of children in relation to the notification of concerns, whether they live in reception, in foster homes or anything, is taken seriously and followed up by the child protection authorities. The law applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e412	There will be two follow-up questions – first Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e415	It is clear that the Minister for the Child does not understand the seriousness of this matter. No one is as alone as kids who are in another country without parents or guardians. Nevertheless, the Minister believes that it is right to continue to discriminate against these kids in relation to our kids. Had some of our kids been in such a situation, they had automatically been responsible for child protection, and there had been adults there who had been obliged to take care of them. Then it becomes completely impossible to understand why the minister now refuses and refers to a law here and a law there, when we know that in practice it doesn't work like that. Can the Minister now explain what is the reason why she believes it is right to discriminate against these kids in relation to Norwegian kids who are without parents or guardians? In addition, the government has said that if you are so unhappy that your parents leave you at an asylum reception, the municipality should not be refunded the cost of child protection. This lacks an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e422	We take this seriously and this report has to be reviewed. All the proposals will be considered in a serious and thorough manner. I have also been worried and lying awake at night, if there is a point that you do not sleep. I actually did it the first night after the report came. I contacted the UDI, because what I was concerned about was the single thing that Redd Barna said there was a child with care failure in the reception. UDI has said that they have also been concerned. On the way, while the report was being written, they contacted Redd Barna, both verbally and in writing, and asked to know where these children were and who they were. We assume that Redd Barna will follow up, and that, if there is a care failure, there may be some anxiety messages sent. Neither I nor UDI have registered that care failure has been reported in relation to these children. In the report that I saw yesterday, I cannot see where these children are. I am very concerned and have taken this up with the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. We have to try together to figure out where these children are. I do not accept that children live under unworthy conditions in the reception of asylum. I don't, but I don't know who they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e431	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e435	As early as 2003, the Stortinget decided that the Council of State should investigate whether the Child Protection Act should be amended in order to treat lone minor asylum seekers in the same way as Norwegians. It has not happened, and I wonder why it has not happened. Then I have an additional question about the other policies that apply in this area. The Minister of Local Affairs says that the unresectable asylum seekers who have not been allowed to stay should now be starved or frozen by reducing social assistance to an absolute minimum. Both Trondheim and Oslo have rebelled against it. This is perceived as so bad that even the Progress Party in Oslo protests. But one who enthusiastically supports this is the former State Secretary of the Christian People's Party, Odd Anders With in Trondheim. I wonder if it really is the view of the Minister for Children and Family that we should treat people in this way in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e444	Firstly, once again, the Child Protection Act works in the same way for single minor asylum seekers as for Norwegian children. It is also the case in Norway today that there is a need for a report of concern in the field of child protection. Child protection does not automatically take care of Norwegian children today without parents. That's not how it works. But the law works the same way, it actually does. What Redd Barna wants is that children who come to Norway and are lonely should be placed in child protection institutions in Norway and thus automatically come under the care of child protection. It's not always as easy to do it, because some of these children aren't sure to be lonely minors. It turns out that some of them have parents, and it's important that we do the job of finding the parents of these children quickly. When it comes to the second question — time is up — we're going to take a closer look at it. I promise to go into that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e451	The president finds it so good that the time was up, because the supplementary question was actually a good piece on the side of what was the main issue. The rules of procedure require, as you know, additional questions to be related to the main question. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e456	I would like to ask the Minister of Industry a question. During the past six months, the Council of State has received two key documents on its table for the formulation of a future policy. I am thinking about the position of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and yesterday also came the position of the District Commission, which is not just a document for the Minister of Industry, but also for several other government councils. Both in the Efficacy Committee and in the District Commission, it is demonstrated that the use of nutritional agents has had a good effect. The efficacy selection suggests that the totality of instruments in the narrow district policy has had good effects in relation to, among others, the use of drugs. value creation and failure in capital markets have a high level of achievement and are at the same time relatively cost-effective. In fact, the location of the district commission is unanimous in its use of nutritional instruments. Both of these samples point out that we have a significant room in relation to the EEA Agreement in terms of increasing the use of these instruments. Will the Council of State take initiatives to adjust Government policies in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e465	In the big business policy, there is no doubt that the main thing is that the basic planks of the economy are in order to relate to the level of interest rates, which are now record low, price increases, stable crown prices and also competitive tax conditions, and that there is pressure on ‘Simplify Norway’. As far as small business policies are concerned, the Government has many instruments. We have research and development, and the Government has proposed, in the state budget that is now in the United Kingdom, a strengthening of nutrition research. For the first time, we came over NOK 3 billion, from NOK 2.8 billion. I have also contributed to a strengthening of SIVA and Innovation Norway. Innovation Norway has received a budget which means that they can increase their efforts related to nationwide action next year, because I believe that IFU and OFU work. I also believe that the start-up grant for new start-ups works, but it must harmonize with the other measures I refer to. It is also an important part of the Government’s industrial policy. In addition, I have proposed setting up seed funds, i.e. funds to help commercialise the research results of the various universities and colleges. This is an important measure, for this is an area where Norway is lagging behind. We miss too many jobs because we don't realize and commercialize part of the research results. In addition, we have established TTOs by the Government, which are tracking dogs at universities, which are to have their own offices and track down research results that can end up with jobs. Then you have to combine this with the seeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e474	All that the Minister of Industry now says is well and good, but both the District Commission and the Committee of the Regions have demonstrated that the type of instruments that the Minister of Industry is now pointing to are not the most targeted instruments in relation to small districts. There is a much greater impact on narrow regional and industrial policies. Over the last decade, the appropriations for these chapters have decreased from DKK 2.9 billion to DKK 1.4 billion in current prices, a significant decrease. These selection settings demonstrate that more targeted and stronger policies in these areas could achieve much better results in the areas of the country in which business is struggling with access to capital and with the potential for development being exploited. It was against these companies that my question was addressed, and my question to the Minister of Industry is: Will the Minister of Industry take the initiative to review the instruments in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e481	Now you can say a lot about the District Commission. Its setting is a political document and not a scientific document. I note that the District Commission, according to what the representative of the Enox says now, believes that in the last ten years, even when the representative was a municipal minister, it has not given priority to this with district-oriented measures, and they are under the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and not under the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I think the government has come up with a budget that is good in terms of innovation and innovation, not least for District Norway. The government has actively followed up the initiative that was taken earlier in relation to ScanWafer's establishment in Årdal, and has used the instrument we have. But what is also said to me when I travel around the district of Norway and meet shift and industrial workers, is that what was really tough was when Norwegian goods were made 15 pst overnight. more expensive through price developments. So we must also have the big business policy in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e486	There will be follow-up questions – Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e489	I've had the pleasure of reading the district commission's settings the last day, and there's a few of them there. But in one area, the District Commission is exceptionally clear and coherent, and that is in terms of industrial policy. It is said that it is wasted on the country’s resources that there is no more active district policy, both in terms of providing capital, not least in terms of research and development, and in terms of increasing the effectiveness of innovation in Norway. From the Progress Party even to the SV, you agree on this. In addition, there are also professionals in the District Commission who believe the same thing. When the Minister of Economic Affairs was aware that there were a number of tracking dogs, I think that there had been a need for some tracking dogs from the Department that had come out to the companies to a much greater extent and received the feedback that the District Commission has just received. My question to Burnde is: isn't it time that we are now triggering the potential for value creation, by having a more active state of business policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e496	The President has doubts about whether there are many tracking dogs in the departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e499	When it comes to this issue, I have set up a system in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade where we also send administrative staff to Norwegian companies to feel how the shoe prints. Several dozen staff in my department have been looking at this with ‘Simplifying Norway’ and how the various instruments work, and that is the good experience. I think the government has presented a very good budget for innovation in the districts. Seed funds, which include the university cities, are important, but in addition, the district-based seed resources that Ryan's representative knows well, that we have pressured on. But I hope that we will not now go from a period of general framework conditions to selective measures where politicians are to adopt which projects are to be implemented. We have no good experience with that. I think it's best for people to be able to invest their own money on their projects that they have faith in. Then there are also shops and workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e507	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e510	Now that we've got a Minister of Industry who believes that 78 pst. Dividends are comfortable, as you can wonder what kind of business policy we are going to have in the years to come. The District Commission gives a clear direction on the issue of industrial policy. This is not a matter of selective industrial policy, but it is a matter of setting up active food policy instruments that can actually best be achieved. These include: in major district industries such as the maritime, offshore and also marine industries and fisheries. That's where there's a defect in the government's bet. That's where the District Commission points out that you can conduct a completely different policy than today, and it's a unanimous district commission that also includes the Right. The question for us who have long called for that type of active enterprise policy is simply: Will the Right take this seriously? Will the Minister of Industry take this seriously? Does he not see that this is clearly correct in relation to the lack of industrial policy that the Government has so far led?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e519	First, I have to say that there is a lot that works very well with regard to industrial policy in Norway today. It's okay. Industrial turnover has increased by 12,2 pst. the last year. Industrial output increased by 2.4 pst. from June to August this year. Norwegian exports, if you keep oil and gas out, have risen by over 10 billion kroner this year. You're doing better. Our shipyards, as the representative said, now have new assignments, and there is new optimism along the coast. I think the opposition also has a responsibility to bring out the brighter picture. That is why we also expect a fall in unemployment to next year. I myself have taken the initiative that we should now reintroduce the building loan guarantee to Norwegian shipyards, so that they can remain in line with other shipyards in Europe. So I think I've followed up with a budget that contains a lot of instruments, and that is also good in relation to the big business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e526	Rolf Terje Klungland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e529	2000 industrial workplaces in Mo i Rana are at risk due to power agreements that expire next year. Power agreements are highly commercial instruments. The big business in our government was to come back with new power regimes for the industry. The government has now shown that they are hiding behind the EEA Agreement in order not to enter into new contracts, which the Workers' Party is taking a complete distance from. But what is perhaps even more alarming is that the government is saying that such power agreements are not targeted and not flexible. The last Minister of Industry we had traveled around with an empty toolbox. What will this council do for the Mo i Rana community?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e536	The President will note that the supplementary question has a relatively distant connection to the main question. But considering that a Norwegian Prime Minister in his time found that everything is related to everything, the Council of State may be allowed to answer if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e539	The question raised by the representative of Klungland is addressed in the Ministry of Oil and Energy's budget proposal, which is now under consideration in the Stortinget, in the Energy and Environment Committee, where the representative sits. As indicated by the Proposition of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, there is no possibility of carrying out general State-run power contracts because of EEA legislation. It's state aid. Following the adoption by the Stortinget of competition in the power market in 1998, several Norwegian companies have concluded long-term power contracts under commercial conditions. Hydro has done it, so does Elkem, and so does Norwegian Forest. Now, if you're going to decide that others are going to get different terms, I'm a little bit in doubt about how it's going to be perceived by these actors. This is also not the case under EEA legislation. But that – and I would like to add it – the Ministry of Oil and Energy has said in the budget proposal, is that they look at the input that has come from the PIL, the process industry, to create an option that they can avoid using force in a power crisis situation, and that is for evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e546	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e549	According to a recent survey of 400 Norwegian enterprises with more than 20 employees, it is estimated that we will lose 80,000 valuable jobs by 2010. Now, earlier today, the Council of State has stated that he is satisfied with the Government's industrial policy, and I record that it is now gradually confessing to more new growth theories. However, he has also said that more needs to be done to keep jobs in Norway. He told the media. In the light of the position of the District Commission yesterday, what does the Council of State intend to do, in addition to what he has outlined here today, to create new businesses, to expand the business, to employ more people and to remain in Norway, whether the jobs are at Dombås, Dokka, in Hammerfest, Kirkenes or Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e556	I fully agree with the representative Hedstrøm that when there is tougher international competition, Norwegian companies cannot put 10 meters behind the others when running the 60 meter. This is why the government has implemented almost 20 billion kroner in tax reliefs for Norwegian business over the past three years. We've also had the interest rate and the exchange rate. In addition, there is an offensive budget to strengthen Innovation Norway, an offensive budget that also strengthens industrial research. That means that we're going to charge more dollars for research, and we're going to have to get more dollars from research. This is an offensive policy. With regard to the report referred to by the representative Hedstrom, we have succeeded quite well in Norway. We have the third largest economy in the world, and we have one of the lowest unemployment rates, which is now going down, unlike in other countries that have problems with it. The availability is low even with the development we've had, and we're going to get new jobs that can also balance with the possible creations that happen out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e563	Then the next and foreseeable last question is asked in today's spontaneous questioning by Bjørgov Froyn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e567	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. In the course of tendering, there has been increasing uncertainty among employees as they would risk losing their acquired rights. Obviously, some of this anxiety was gradually recorded in the political management of the department, and I assume that this is the explanation that in what is now being laid out as a basis for competition for the further tendering process it is clarified that the successful company must be prepared for the introduction of a statutory occupational pension scheme for the employees of the new company. Of course, this is a step in the right direction, but it is by no means a good response to the anxiety that employees have felt and still feel. During the year’s tariff settlement, the Government promised that the issue of statutory occupational pensions should be considered in general for the labour market. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Is not a transfer of Gjøvikbanen an opportunity to guarantee the employees the occupational pension they currently have through the State Pension Fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e576	First of all, I would like to stress that we have had a very useful dialogue with the employees along the way in this process, with the skills they have, which have been important in this work. We have also gone a long way when we have said that we base our business on this work, which means that those who are connected to the Gjøvik track today have the opportunity to continue here even after it is exposed to competition. We've been concerned that it should be attractive both for travellers to travel on this route and for people who want to work here, to work here. What I feel is that this question is really going on is a follow-up of the Pension Commission as such. It's a pretty big and comprehensive question, so I want to refer to what the government wants to put on it. But I would like to stress that in the competitive basis presented, we will also consider the element of how the operator intends to recruit and retain employees. In other words, what does the operator intend to do to make himself attractive as an employer? It has been an important point for me to make a competitive route on the railway a place where many want to work, and how both employment and wages are at such a level that it is an element that you actually want to work there. The answer to the direct question is that I believe it is a fundamental question that goes on pension solutions that are not linked to the Gjøvik track isolated, but is a larger question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e587	I thank you for your answer. The point is, of course, that Gjøvikbanen is one of many examples in the particular transport sector of how many companies are exposed to competition and where the element of social arrangements becomes part of the competitive bidding process. Here, then, the government has the opportunity to show that it takes seriously the situation of its employees, the safety of its employees and the rights of its employees by kneading, for example. that they are guaranteed the arrangements which have been drawn up. These aren't new things that come to, these are rights that they have per. today in the employment situation of them within the NSB system. That's the point of my question. Will the Council of State not take the safety of its employees seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e592	I believe we have, because we have worked very well through this basis that has now been provided. As I said, I have had close communication with the employees' associations just to find out what makes this an attractive job after a competitive outing. We have gone a long way in facilitating both secure jobs and good working conditions, taking into account the working environment, pay conditions and possible pension solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e597	There will be two follow-up questions – first Geir-Ketil Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e600	The launch of competition on the Gjøvik Railway is the precursor of what the majority of the population and the Government has decided to be the full competitive outsourcing of rail passenger transport as of 2006, I am not mistaken. It will be a comprehensive and complicated affair. It will affect the ownership of train equipment, the ownership of workshops, the conditions of employees, which Mrs Froyn has been in, the availability of competent staff, quality requirements and not least safety requirements. My question to the Minister for Transport is whether she will come to Stortinget with her own case about the premises for the deployment of rail passenger services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e605	The principles attached to this have been presented to Stortinget in the past. We have created a competitive basis that has gone out to market players, and here are the premises that we have chosen to base. We've had a lot of competition in the transport sector that we've been looking at when we've done this. This applies, for example: the ferry sector, what has been done in bus and coach activities in counties, etc. I am committed to getting all the aspects that are important in order for us to succeed in the overall railway policy in this organisation of competition. Then I want to correct the claim that we intend to have a full competitive outlook by 2006. But we've never said that. But we've sketched a further race for it. It's first the Gjøvik Railway in 2006, and then we're going to go on with Bergensbanen and Sørlandsbanen and have experience with them before we move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e612	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e615	I want to go back to the main question from the representative Froyn, to which I do not feel that the Council of State answers. So let me try to put it another way: when the Gjøvik track as the first job is offered, we know that the employees have what needs to be defined as a good pension agreement, a good pension situation, as members of the State pension fund. Then the path is to be offered. The question then is, would it be that those who submit tenders should be able to speculate that employees are experiencing a worsening of pension conditions, or would the Council make it clear in the tender documents that the employees have membership of the state pension agreement? It is an enterprise transfer, and in the event of any other successful tenderer, the employees coming from the current Gjøvik track shall retain their pension agreement. It should be possible to answer – it is yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e620	When it comes to what you've been working on from before, you get it. But what I'm being asked to do here is actually foreshadowing the entire pension solution for the future, which is a big, fundamental case, which is being presented to the Stortinget at a later stage, and I can't expect to link it to the Gjøvik Railway. I am not going to demand a concrete pension solution. If I do that, I'm going far beyond what I should do in such a round, not least I'm forsaking the treatment of the Pension Commission's proposal. So this is a fundamental question, which has to be addressed on an overall plane. But we've shown here that there may be regulations in the area that the actors have to take into account, and it's also shown that we're going to focus on what the actors are doing to make this an attractive job, among other things. in the case of pay and working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e625	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e631	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him. Question 4, from the representative of Mr Åsa Elvik to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has been withdrawn. Question 7, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Education and Research, will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 8, from the representative Rolf Rekvamm to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research, who has been away. Question 9, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who has been away. Question 10, by Eva M. Nielsen, representative of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who has been away. At the request of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, this question is moved and answered in response to question 3, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 14, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e656	I have the following questions for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs: ‘The European Commission has submitted proposals for a new Services Directive. If the Directive becomes applicable to the EEA territory, there may be a significant impact on Norwegian pay and working conditions. It will allow for social dumping by allowing services which are lawful in one country to be provided anywhere, under the pay and working conditions of the home country. There is considerable opposition to the Directive in European trade union movements. Does the Council agree with the resistance of the trade union movement and will it ensure the use of influence channels to prevent the adoption of the Directive?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e665	The internal market in Europe includes, inter alia: the free movement of services. It also applies in Norway through the EEA Agreement. In order to remove obstacles frequently encountered by the service provider when selling their services to another EEA country, the Commission has proposed a Directive on services in order to ensure the most uniform rules in this area. A central principle of the proposal is that the provisions of the country of origin apply to cross-border provision of services. The proposal for a Services Directive is now under consideration in the Council of Ministers of the European Union and in the European Parliament. The aim of the proposed Directive is to remove barriers to trade in services, thereby facilitating increased employment and value creation in Europe. The proposal for a Directive is intended in particular to assist small and medium-sized enterprises by ensuring less red tape in the cross-border provision of services. The proposal for a directive is comprehensive and we expect changes to be made along the way so that the present draft does not become the final one. The EU is working towards its adoption during 2005. With regard to the position of workers in relation to the Services Directive, this Directive will not be exclusive in this area. The proposal for a directive, as it now stands, means that the working and employment conditions of workers will be largely safeguarded by the rules laid down in another EU directive of 1996 on the posting of workers in the provision of services, the so-called broadcasting directive. In other words, this Directive will prevail over the country of origin principle of the present draft Services Directive. In concrete terms, this means that the health, environmental and safety legislation of the Norwegian Working Environment Act and its related regulations are now applicable as before to foreign activities operating as service providers in Norway. This will be in line with the objective that we in Norway want to have a high level of health, environment and safety, regardless of the nationality of each employee and employer. I would also like to point out that it is positive that the Directive will make it easier for Norwegian businesses to provide their services in the EU market. In some areas, however, the draft directive appears somewhat unclear and certain clarifications are therefore desirable in the wider process. With regard to the question of pay terms, this is considered to be a condition reserved for social partners. For the purposes of the EEA Agreement, a law on the publication of collective bargaining agreements has been adopted. This law will continue to apply independently of the Services Directive. Organisations and employees may, in accordance with the law, apply to a party’s composed name and require that the wage and salary agreements of the industry be applied to posted workers. The tariff heading took its first decision on public disclosure on 11 October of this year. Thus, this tool for social dumping is also in use, and it works. As I mentioned at the outset, the basic idea of the directive is to ensure the free movement of services, important for the creation of value in Norway. The current design of the Directive will require clarifications in a number of areas. The government will maintain close contact with relevant actors in the EU in order to have the best possible intervention in the further process and to influence it. Of course, the objective of high standards of health, environment and safety in Norway, regardless of the nationality of employees and employers, is a guide to this impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e691	I am pleased that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has high objectives. He pointed out that the Broadcasting Directive is a general set of other directives, but there is a great deal of uncertainty about the EU system. It is also up to the court to judge if there is uncertainty, and these principles stand against each other, and we know that the court has long traditions to judge for free float for the open market. So I don't feel quite sure. I record that the employer’s side is very enthusiastic about this directive, but the trade union movement sees it as part of a greater fight against social dumping. They are afraid that if this goes through, it will open the locks for social dumping across borders in the EU and in the EEA territory. That's exactly why it's being mobilized. My question is then whether the Council of State will now contact LO and listen to what kind of arguments they have, and see if there is more he can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e698	The answer to Mr Ågot Valle's question is yes. I would like to invite the social partners to discuss this issue at the first meeting of the Labour Policy Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e703	I'm very happy about that. I then assume that the Council of State will have a lot of arguments as to why he should look very carefully at this directive. We can look at how this already turns out in Norwegian working life, because in Bergen there is a conflict: Profish takes in 22 Lithuanian temporary workers over Norwegian employees, and these do not get Norwegian working conditions at all. The argument is that the Services Directive gives companies in the new EU countries the right to compete for EEA-wide missions in line with other enterprises, but that those who are awarded the contract can bring with them workers from their home country on their own terms. Will the Council of State take up with both the temporary agency and Profish that this kind of encroachment cannot be accepted? And doesn't this show that we have to be on guard and show muscles to get a decent work life?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e712	Without going into the specific matter, I would like to say the following: firstly, the Services Directive has not been adopted in the EU. It's in a process, and you're expecting it to be adopted in the next year. We want from Norway, along with, among other things, our colleagues in the other Nordic countries are active in both clarifying and influencing the design of the Directive. In addition, I agree that in a situation of greater globalisation and greater freedom of movement of labour and services across borders, it is important to be aware that the high ambitions we have in Norway in terms of health, environment and security, and in terms of resisting trends in social dumping, should continue. And we have a system that we just got this week demonstrated works in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e722	This question, from the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e725	I will be asked the following questions: ‘Refugee and asylum policy is a state responsibility. As of 1 January 2004, a group of unrecoverable asylum seekers lost their right to diet and accommodation at government reception. Is the Council of State right for the State to transfer the economic and social responsibility of this group to the municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e734	I will first refer to my reply on 1 October to the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa's question No. 952 to a written reply, where I have largely answered what she is asking about. I believe that a former asylum seeker can only be defined as ‘unturnable’ once he himself has tried to obtain valid travel documents and has voluntarily tried to return home. Although there are countries to which we cannot coercively return people, the people themselves can travel to you voluntarily. All with final rejection of their asylum application are offered a worthy return journey with the International Organization for Migration, IOM. In the autumn, IOM has assisted one person to Somalia and one to Ethiopia with a voluntary return. Both countries refuse to accept their own repatriated citizens. Persons without legal residence in the country do not have a claim for social security benefits under the Social Services Act. However, a society shall not allow persons to starve or freeze. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has therefore, in a letter to the municipalities of the country, clarified what has already been stated, that urgent, vital assistance needs to be provided in an emergency, including for people who have illegal residence in Norway. It goes without saying that such emergency aid must be quite short-lived and just remedy the need. I would like to make it clear that we are not talking here about refugees or asylum seekers, but about people who, in fact, have an illegal residence after they have refused to comply with a legitimate decision in Norway. I would also like to remind you that anyone who cooperates with the authorities to provide a valid travel document, and who is applying for a return trip with the IOM, will receive both food and lodging until the return trip takes place, although in some cases this may take time. This also applies to Northern Iraqs who have lived outside reception and previously become self-sufficient. All asylum recipients are required to inform all residents of their return and of the IOM. For the social services, such information will also be important in order to remind rejected asylum seekers of the alternatives available. emergency aid shall be the last resort. My department now sends out a letter to all the municipalities of the country about this. The group I believe can be called unreturnable, is today very small, and this is not about large expenses for the municipalities. However, I will follow the situation closely in the future. My department has announced a research project to evaluate the system of non-dwelling. If it turns out that the scheme has significant financial consequences, I will consider measures through the general arrangement for the local economy in the future. There is a certain paradox in the large municipal commitment of those who have finally been rejected from the asylum application and are staying illegally here, and who are thus obliged to leave the country. I wish for a similar commitment to those who have been granted a residence permit. It could have helped people who are going to stay here to live more quickly and to have a more normalized life in their new home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e745	It was government powers that changed the rules and took away the cost and lodging on receipt from 1 January. It is government powers that negotiate return agreements and that have an overview of cases where there is no possibility of return. Government agencies are also in contact with UNHCR to produce country reports, etc. Those who have now been denied a diet and accommodation at reception are individuals who, for various reasons, do not return – either because they have no country to return to, or for other reasons. However, they do not have a municipality in which they are established from 1 January. When Trondheim takes responsibility, the Council of State acts almost threateningly – or frighteningly – the right expression is to Trondheim, while the State Secretary of the Ministry of Social Affairs is surprised that Trondheim does not take responsibility. Does the council see that the government here has spoken with two tongues?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e754	So before 1 January 2004, a circular was sent – and given clarifications – to the municipalities that emergency aid applies to all persons, including those who actually have an illegal stay per. current date in the country. So there's nothing new that the State Secretary of the Ministry of Social Affairs has said. It is also in line with what I – in my so-called terrifying statements – actually say in the Address Paper interview myself, that everyone has the right to receive both health and social assistance, but that it is a short-term offer. In that way, there's no difference. There's more difference between what you're willing to listen to from information, and what's actually expressed in such a context. The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa says that there are many reasons why people no longer receive an offer. No, there is only one reason why people no longer receive an offer, and it is because they do not cooperate on returns, that they do not register for voluntary returns. It is the only criterion that exists for people no longer to receive an offer. What is happening is that we are reviewing the laws and regulations adopted by this House on how to deal with asylum cases and that asylum seekers are obliged to leave the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e761	In our sent Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, new regulations are being heard. It's obvious that the purpose of the regulations is to streamline the law, that is, to prevent social assistance from being given. It is good that there is now a clarification in relation to emergency assistance. But it's not that the Council of State believes that this clarification is any solution in the longer term, is it? Trondheim has made his decisions. Oslo is responding. In Stavanger there is now a discussion that goes far beyond this with two/three days of emergency assistance. Cooperation is an important keyword. Is it the case that the Council of State and the Government are going to commit themselves to closer cooperation with the municipalities that are the most involved? Is it the case that they want to look at what arrangements are in Sweden and Denmark today to get a more humane and humane treatment in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e768	I fully agree that today's situation is not the solution in the long term. The long-term solution is that we ensure that people who do not have a basis for staying in Norway actually leave the country. We cannot leave it up to each and every person to torpedo legal decisions in this country to return. It is also very important to say that cooperation is about making sure that we are consistent in Norwegian society and telling people that if you don't cooperate, you don't have any special rights in our society either. We would motivate people to stay if they kept believing that someone was going to solve the matter. The experience of church asylum is quite clear: people will believe that by being one more day, it will resolve soon. The problem with that is that we put people in an even worse situation when it comes to getting back to their homeland, because we're mentally draining them, because we're not making sure they get a new life. It's awfully important that we get this attitude into people, return should happen when you don't need protection. In fact, I hope that cooperation from opposition parties too, which should therefore feel that decisions taken in this Chamber, the rules of law adopted in this Chamber, will actually apply to all those in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e779	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture and Food: «Gilde The Joint Slaughterhouse in Skien was closed in the summer. At that time many warned against that this would mean that the maximum transport time of living animals of 8 hours would be exceeded. Experience so far after the closure shows that this is true. According to NRK Telemark, this limit is broken by 10 to 20 pst. of the transport operations. What will the Council of State do to prevent these systematic breaches of the rules on the transport of live animals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e788	Neither I nor the supervisory authorities will accept an eroding of animal protection legislation as a result of changes in the slaughterhouse structure. I have previously said, in the Questionnaire on 10 March this year in response to questions from the representative Molvik, that I assume that the decisions taken by Gilde FS on restructuring take place within the legal and regulatory framework given. In the case of the claim that the authorised eight-hour journey time is interrupted in 10-20 pst. of the cases following the closure of the slaughterhouse in Skien, I will address this with fresh figures from the Food Safety Authority showing that of the 4,528 small ruminants which have been transported during the season until 30 September to the slaughterhouse in Gol instead of to the slaughterhouse in Skien, 126 animals, or 2,8 pst., were transported for more than eight hours. 70 of these animals were on a car that had an engine failure, which meant that they were transported for almost ten hours. The remaining 56 animals were transported for a maximum of 15 minutes over the permitted eight hours. The closure of the slaughterhouse in Skien has also led to the delivery of many sheep farmers to a small-scale slaughterhouse in the vicinity, resulting in increased animal welfare in the form of shorter transport times for many animals. We must, of course, be aware that changes in the slaughterhouse structure often pose increased challenges for slaughterhouses, transporters and the supervisory authorities as regards compliance with animal welfare rules for the transport of animals. I can inform you that in the wake of the closure of the slaughterhouse in Skien, the Food Authority has established an interregional transport project between the regions of Hedmark and Oppland, Buskerud, Vestfold and Telemark and Rogaland and Agder. The aim of the project is to establish an effective, rational and consistent model for the intensified supervision of animal welfare legislation for the transport of animals. The experience gained from this project will form the basis for a supervisory model for slaughter transport for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e799	I thank you for your answer. It is true that in previous replies to me, the Council of State has underlined and has been exemplary in its awareness of compliance with the rules and that no exemptions will be granted. I interpret the Council of State so that it will still be the attitude. With regard to the number of infringements of the transport rules, I base my information on what the carriers have said. So this is the situation in that part of the year in which road and road conditions are the best, i.e. in the summer. We now meet in winter, and there is reason to fear that this problem will increase with smooth and partially poorly maintained winter roads. The question will then be whether the Council of State will follow this closely. What kind of action, if any, will he take for Gilde if it turns out that the figures are going to be even higher in the winter because of the road standard?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e806	I would first like to say that this is not about the slaughterhouse structure on my part. It is private operators, cooperative operators, who themselves decide how to organise their operations. We have a national code, and it has to be kept. We know that there is a strong commitment to such structural changes and slaughterhouse closures. There are many arguments, and there are many rumors. I will not deal with anything but by being quite clear that the legislation we have is not to be broken. We're supervising, we have good reporting systems to know what's going on, and we've also started a project, as I said in my answer, to make sure that we can carry out an even better oversight in the future that ensures that the carriers and the slaughterhouses comply with Norwegian legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e813	I hear the council says the rules shouldn't be broken. If this is going to happen, and to an extent that the Council of State will not accept, then who is responsible for ensuring that future breaches do not happen? Is it a slaughterhouse cooperative, is it a carrier, or is it a manufacturer's marine? It's still very unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e818	Let me make it quite clear that it is the actors, the slaughterhouse cooperative in this case, with the carriers they buy services from, who are responsible for complying with Norwegian law. To make sure that this happens, we have a public oversight that follows, that requires reporting and has an overview of what is going on. The answer I have given today rejects the rumors that have been protested that it should be so formidable, that you have not complied with the legislation. It has been primarily a case where a car had an engine failure. Such situations could always arise. So it's obviously the responsibility of both the individual citizen and the company to comply with Norwegian legislation, and we're going to see that they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e825	Now we're going to deal with question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e832	This question, from the representative Eva M. Nielsen to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e835	I allow myself to ask the following questions: «On Saturday 2 October 2004, a trawler was to deliver 50 tonnes of fish in Boat Fjord and bunker 100 tonnes of bunker oil. However, the Food Authority informed them that their opening hours were up until 9.00 p.m. 8:00 Friday, and they didn't work Saturday and Sunday. The trawler therefore had to deliver the fish in Murmansk, and the business life in Båtsfjord was subject to a projected income loss of NOK 350 000. Will the Council of State help to ensure that such unfortunate situations do not arise again?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e844	The matter referred to is subject to border control legislation for imports of fish from third countries. The landings shall be checked at a border inspection post or in a private establishment approved as a control centre. The volume of such deliveries varies between border inspection posts, and in some places weeks may elapse without such deliveries. The challenge will thus be to find the balance between predictable and equal opening times while taking into account flexibility and costs. The current opening hours are a test procedure that was developed in the spring following a mission from the Ministry of Fisheries. According to the test scheme, at the specific request of the industry, border inspection posts shall allow the unloading of fish until hr. 20 all normal working days. The opening hours are based on a balance between industry's wishes, available human resources, the possibility to recover overtime costs, identified actual needs and the desire to avoid distortions of competition between the private operators operating the control centres. The testing scheme is intended to last for 2004 and its experience will provide a basis for the assessment of the availability of these border inspection posts in the future. This week, the Food Authority has a large meeting with representatives of the entire fishery and aquaculture industry, and the needs for the industry will be discussed there. Food surveillance is fully aware that the absence of opening hours could lead to vessels choosing to unload fish in other countries, particularly Russian vessels in their own country. This will be emphasised in assessments to be made in the future. Food surveillance is therefore in the process of assessing whether the flexibility of the border inspection posts for the reception of fish is high enough. I have received assurances from the supervision that this work will be given high priority and that the dialogue with the industry will be emphasised in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e857	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased with the answer. It is a point for the industry in Coastal Finland that the existing legislation should be assessed. And when the Council of State says it's going to be out in 2004, I think that when we get to New Year's Eve, an assessment has been made, and it's going to be in dialogue with the customers. For the Danish Food Authority, you should also provide a service. We who sit on Stortinget have a responsibility for the service being maintained for the benefit of the business that depends on it. I just want to ask briefly to follow-up: if it gets so that the Food Safety Authority is on the code they have today, I will probably come back and follow up this matter. Can the Council of State give me a little hope that he will then consider giving a little hint to the Food Authority that it might be wiser to have a little more flexibility in relation to the business life it is set to serve?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e866	Yes, it was an appropriate answer, and it was meant this way, and so the questioner also has reason to perceive it. After all, we have had this new food supervision with such extensive tasks for a little less than a year now. It's a huge change in the public sector that's happening here, and it's had to work every hour since we started. It would be strange if there aren't things we need to learn on the go, and correct, and that's the process the Food Safety Authority is now in. At the same time, we need to find the good balance between being available and providing service as often and as much as possible, while at the same time having a reasonable cost-effectiveness. Because, as I said in my answer, there may be weeks between each time a boat arrives. It can't be that we have to have a person waiting for weeks, and then incidentally one night you have to be ready. It is to find the good balance between how we cover these costs and a good dialogue with the industry, which we are now working on. I will assure the representative that we will follow this up and contribute to finding solutions that the industry believes are right as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e873	I just want to thank you for the answer – and say that we are talking about New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e878	Yes, and often before that too – on both this and other important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e883	This was really nice. We go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e899	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e906	I have the following questions for our Honourable Minister of Justice: ‘The size decided to set up 24 hours a day on the base during the processing of the bulk rescue helicopter service message. In the event of a ship fire in the Oslo Earth or an accident in the Gardermoen approach corridor, it will take a long time before the rescue helicopter on the Back can help. In the light of the decision of the Storting and an increased level of threat, when will the Government introduce 24-hour continuous watch on the Back?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e915	Efforts are being made to establish a daily bystander with 15 minutes of medical preparedness at all continental rescue helicopters. Such bystander was launched at the rescue helicopter base at the Sun on 1 June 2004. The civil rescue helicopter base in Florø, proposed in the budget, will be provided from the start-up. There are still some challenges to finding a proper and appropriate model for bystanders. The experience gained from the launch of the service in the Sun is important for the further work on the establishment of an accomplice. Attention will be paid to the fact that the establishment of a bystander may take place without entailing unnecessary temporary costs during a start-up period. Today, Rygge is operated as a de-exposure, i.e. as a temporary base. In order to facilitate the practical establishment of bystanders on all bases, it would be beneficial to establish Back as a fixed base. The resource situation in the East is generally good, with a number of public and private resources available. This applies, inter alia, to: Air ambulance service helicopters, police helicopter and rescue company vessels. In addition, the support of rescue helicopters in Gothenburg and Ålborg could be estimated in relation to operations in the Outer Oslofjord. The establishment of a bystander at Rygge will nevertheless make an important contribution to the preparedness of the area. Progress with respect to the presence of the remaining rescue helicopters will be restored by the Ministry of Justice in the context of the revised national budget for 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e930	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I hope he understands that we who live in the neighbourhood here, and the voters I represent, are impatient. It has been over two years since a decision was taken to establish a 24-hour presence watch at all bases. We have a large population concentration in this area, even though we have alternative helicopter and rescue services. I would like to remind you that a country like the United Kingdom has full 24-hour standby at its bases. Denmark is in the process of implementing the same. However, I think that the answer is positive, that the revised budget for 2005 should then return to progress. In concrete terms, on the basis of this: Can you expect a more detailed description so that the inhabitants of this area can know that they will be given the additional security that will result in a fixed base with a 24-hour continuous standby on Rygge?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e939	The representative is quite right that Stortinget has drawn up the guidelines, so that course is set. In reality, phase-in is three-fold. Phase 1 was what happened on the Sun and – so far – on Svalbard. Phase 2 is to follow up the part of the rescue helicopter agreement that was made with the Progress Party in its time, to phase into a civil operator. This is happening in Flora, and it is in the draft budget for next year. Phase 3, the treatment of the other bases – where Rygge is an exposure, and where I say it would be an advantage to establish Rygge as a fixed base – is my goal to come back to in the revised national budget for 2005, with a proper description of progress. I'm saying it this way, because I'm aware of what's been treated in the Storting, and because of course I'm aware that it's time-limited how long we can live with a difference between the different parts of the country in terms of access to this service.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e948	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. I only have one comment: I feel that the government is showing a responsibility here. I would like to remind you that the Fostervoll Committee, which worked with the rescue helicopter service in the past, ordered a report from the Transport Economics Institute. They found out that it was a good diet-benefit effect – in fact the best – by establishing 24-hour continuous preparedness on all bases. So now we're just impatient and waiting for what's going on in the revised budget for 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e957	The representative's impatience is entirely in place. It is precisely the impatience of representatives to influence both opinion and government – not to mention budgetary negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e966	I have the following questions for the country's Minister of Justice: ‘17. In June 2004, the Ministry of Justice presented a project on new prison in Agder under the direction of the Council of Agder, Kristiansand and Lillesand Municipality. This shows that only 21 pst. of the 489 settlement sites in Criminal Welfare Region Southwest are located in Agder. Both the Agderraad and the police strongly recommend a new prison in Agder to improve the settlement capacity in Agder, especially in Kristiansand. What is the Council of State’s assessment of the evidence presented in that presentation in relation to the need for new prisons in Agder?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e975	The country is divided into six criminal care regions. The South-West Criminal Office includes both the Lands and Rogaland counties. In addition, the region has some forest sites in Telemark which is a department in Arendal prison. A large proportion of prison sites in the region are located in Rogaland. This region has relatively small pay queues and has been transferred to a significant number of judges from the Criminal Office region west to bring down the total pay queue. The South-West region also has few violations of the so-called 24-hour rule in the placement of custody inmates at the time of registration. There are more judges in line and more pressure in prison places in parts of the country than in the South West region. This is particularly true in Hordaland, in the east and north of the country. The government has worked systematically to expand the number of prison sites in the period 2002–04, especially in those areas where the pressure on prison sites is high — a total of 400 sites, including duplication and use of forced release. In further efforts to establish more prison sites, the regions with the highest needs will first be given priority. According to the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 2003-2004 in the Stortinget and in the draft budget for 2005, St.prp. No 1 for 2004–05, the priority is the planning of a new prison in Halden, the assessment of a new prison in Inner Salt – in the municipalities of Fauske and Sørfold – and the use of Hvalsmoen. In addition, extensions to existing prisons will be considered. This implies that any new projects in the Kristiansand area must wait until priority projects have been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e990	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I find the answer somewhat strange. I have to make it clear that in the districts it is considered an important matter to improve the prison situation there. And I want to make it clear that I'm primarily not talking about the settlement capacity of the Crime County South West. I would like to reiterate that it is the significant division of bias between Rogaland and the Landers within the Criminal Office region south-west that is the main problem. Just dried 20 pst. of the repair and maintenance places are located in the two strata, i.e. close to 80 pst. of the places located in Rogaland. Does not the Council of State see any problems with this distribution of bias in the settlement capacity between the Aggregates and Rogaland in the South-West Crime Region?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e997	I have great respect for the fact that the representative is a loyal representative of his district. But I'm going to manage a settlement queue in the country as a whole, and as I said, the pressure is greatest in the West, in the East and partly in the North. The Stortinget has also dealt with this, both through what the Government has proposed, and through clear priorities. The priorities of the Judicial Committee, which the Government of course accepts, are to: continue the work of a prison in Eastfoldse on the possibilities of a prison in Inner Saltense at Walsmoen use existing institutions It means, in clear terms, that once that priority has been given to a budgetary position, it is the one on which it is based. Then I would also like to say that I understand, of course, that the police want a sufficient number of custody places – which I guess is one of the issues behind the representative's question. Here I know that Kristiansand prison has a high custody covering and a favourable location. However, it is now time for the police to be offered places. However, although there are now few violations of the 24-hour rule, transport costs may arise. That is the disadvantage today, and of course it is a relationship I want to follow. I have nothing else to add than the priority I have outlined.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1023	I thank the Council once again for the answer. I understand that it is not that easy to get to the Council of State on this issue, and that is not quite unexpected. But I would like to point out that this is a problem that is an important challenge for the agder states, and that we in any case intend to continue working on. In this case, I would also like to show that, as I have been informed, 20 years' work in the police department is going to transport prisoners from the counties and to Rogaland. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: does he think it is good use of resources when a whole of 20 years of police work is used just to transport prisoners out of the counties and to other parts of the country? This, I believe, is an argument in this case which also argues that it would be reasonable to locate a new prison in Agder, preferably at the border between the two states of Lillesand. There we know that there are private stakeholders inside the picture who will fund and build this prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1035	It is correct that the representative cannot expect any other response from me than that I follow up on the Storting's priorities. It would attract considerable attention if I had answered in another way. Of course I could have done that, but I haven't. I didn't do it when I in its time recognized the reality of the budget position for the current year, or when I presented the budget for the next year. Of course, I am aware that this is pushing the police. That's why I see with excitement, for example. up to an attempt now being made in the East – otherwise under a budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party – to use private carriers to try to relieve police-trained personnel in the case of necessary prisoner transport. There is a project that is now being started. It's politically controversial, but a project that at least I'm looking at with considerable tension, and that could possibly give positive impetus to some of the things that are the background to the representative's questions to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1052	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1058	This question, from the representative of Rolf Rekovam to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1061	I have the following questions: ‘Since a majority amended the Training Act and abolished the classification division, this has been practised by several municipalities in such a way that their own classes have been removed in neo-Norwegian terms. In the past, a separate class had to be created if a number of students required it. Different arrangements are being made, but in common with most people, the number of newcomers in book-keeping schools is getting worse, with fewer hours combined. This wasn't the intention. Will the Council of State ensure that the intention and assumptions of the termination of the classification division are complied with?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1070	I am acting on behalf of the Minister of Education and Research, but it is accepted by the questioner. It follows from the fourth paragraph of Sections 2 to 5 of the Training Act that when at least ten students at one of the steps 1 to 7 in a municipality wish to receive written training on a primary objective other than that otherwise adopted by the municipality, they have the right to belong to a separate student group. This right applies as long as there are at least six students left in this group. However, as the representative said, this provision was amended in 2003, when the general class organisation rules in Chapter 8 of the Training Act were repealed and replaced by a new provision in Sections 8 to 2 that students can be divided into teaching groups as necessary. However, it is essential that the organisation of educational groups be sound and that otherwise the needs of pupils for social inclusion be met. In the past, § 2–5 of the Training Act stated that, when the criteria were met, the students who wanted to receive written training had the right to their own class for a primary purpose other than that otherwise prescribed. The adjustment of § 2–5 of the Training Act, where the right to belong to a separate class was replaced by a right to belong to a separate group, must be seen as a natural consequence of the withdrawal of the class concept. However, the right to specific target form groups means that students are trained in a separate group with a different main written objective than the other school student groups. This group requires the school to complete the written training in the target form of the group and students to use the target form of the group in their written work. The target form of the group will also be the main objective of Norwegian education. As regards the size of such a target group, the general safety requirement applies to all classes of education. Also earlier, when the students with different primary objectives were entitled to their own class, it was opening up so that parts of the teaching could be organised differently. This meant that the specific target class could be merged with other classes in parts of the teaching. It is stated in the preliminary work of the previous section 2–5 that such other organisation, among other things, may be applicable in practical-esthetic subjects, where the consideration behind the rule of specific target class does not apply to the same extent. It follows from the preparatory work of the new adjusted paragraphs 2 to 5 that it has not been intended to restrict this possibility to other organisation in similar situations. When the pupils from the specific target group are mixed with other students, this does not set aside the right to receive written training in its own form. This means that even in the hours when pupils from the specific target group are mixed with other students, the school shall provide the pupils from the specific target group with written material in their own form. In addition, parents have the right to choose the format of their textbooks in such a context. The Ministry will ask the Directorate of Education to take this matter up with the regional supervisory authorities so that the matter can be followed up as necessary to ensure that practice in this field is in line with the legal requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1085	I am – I think – largely satisfied with the answer. I feel that this is a good clarification in relation to what is needed. But I have a little extra question – I have to follow this up – and it's going to narrow this possibility to other organisation. I agree. But my supplementary question to the Council of State is: Does this open up for an extension? Does he agree with an extended interpretation of the paragraph so that one can now have an opportunity to organise another in relation to previous legislation? I want the Council of State to clarify this. It's actually a little bit important, because this is one of the issues that we're dealing with, or might be dealing with, in the future. I therefore need the Council of State to clarify that there is both narrowing and extension in case there are conflicts and disputes about the understanding of the provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1092	The representative of Rikvam is highly skilled in this field. It's not me, so I get to stick to the useful script I've been given. And as I said, when the students from the special group are mixed with other students, this does not set aside the right to receive the written training in its own way. I don't want to go into interpreting a piece of legislation that I'm not usually constitutionally responsible for. However, I would like to clarify to the representative, because he is entitled to do so, that in all cases where the State acts as supervisory authority towards the local government sector, safe documentation of the practices of each municipality should be obtained. The people are the right place to monitor this. This also applies in relation to their own student groups with a new Norse general objective and, where appropriate, questions or obligations in relation to individual municipalities. As mentioned in my main response – and I understand that the scope and content of it – I would like to ask the Education Directorate, on behalf of the Minister for Education, to ensure that the county officials carry out the necessary investigations and address any breaches of the legal provisions in force. Then I would like to encourage the representative to take up the interpretation of the law with the Council of State, which is constitutionally responsible, when he is present. Then he probably gets a better answer than what I am able to give him now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1101	The answer wasn't bad. Let me underline that. I think I'm partly satisfied with that – I think I'm almost satisfied. But let me continue a little bit in relation to what the council said. There have been some disputes about understanding the right to get their own classes. That's the case for new Norwegian – that's what we're talking about – in the book destination area when we lifted the class division number. But the intention was quite clear: this did not change the reality of a right to have their own classes in new Norse when there was a sufficient number of students who asked for it. There have been disputes in some municipalities, and it is approaching that this case comes up in the legal system. We're pretty close to it in some municipalities, at least in one municipality. My question to the Council of State is: Does he think from the answer that he has given me today, that I, as I interpreted it, in many ways seemed good, that this should lead to these conditions being deflated, so that one escapes that these matters end up in the judiciary, because there really are no parties that are served with?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1112	I don't want to believe anything about the Norwegian people's right or the possibility of currently using the legal system. There is a sweeping Americanization in this field in our country. What I hoped to express on behalf of the Minister of Education was that, by asking the Directorate of Education to check, she would see to it that the intention of the law was respected. I believe that constitutionally, as a state council, one does not want a law to be so vague that it ends up in the judiciary. A law must be properly answered to Stortinget. If there is confusion, it is the duty of the Council of State to clean it up, or the right of the Storting to clean it up, so that it should be on the table. In general, I would say that it is a little desirable that things that should be clear according to a law end up in the legal system. That is my general position. I would assume that this is also the position of the Clemets Council. And she's, I know, a person who shouldn't be particularly attached to the fact that the lawyers' taximeters are going to run, when it's unnecessary that they do it. If a law is unclear, the representative gets to drill with his questions to the constitutionally responsible state council. I'm absolutely sure he's going to do that. And if he's not satisfied, he knows all the rules about how to help make it clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1126	This question, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1129	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘There has been a lot of doubt and debate about the research quota, it has been claimed that 700 tonnes of bluefish have been fished and that this has been taken from the total quota of coastal fish. Can the Council of State explain how much has been fished by the other species and is it the case that the research quota is allocated to the total quota for the coastal fishing fleet?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1138	Norway and Russia agree that as from 2004, all catches of cod for research and management purposes will be charged to the total quota. In the past, Norway and Russia could have a research catch of 7 500 tonnes of cod each in excess of the total quota. Coastal fishing for blue whiting is not restricted by a total quota for the coastal fleet. However, in order to limit fishing under the biological advice, the direct fishing of the coastal fleet has been regulated with limited quotas for each vessel and, in addition, direct fishing has been allowed only for a limited period of time. The stock situation of blue herring is uncertain. In order to continue to grow in the blue whiting stock, ICES, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, recommended that the withdrawal in 2004 be limited to less than 13000 tonnes. There is a ban on direct trawling for blue whiting, but Norway and Russia agree that Norway can maintain coastal fishing for blue whiting at a traditional level of between 2000 and 3000 tonnes. In recent years, however, the coastal fleet has delivered between 4000 and 6000 tonnes. Therefore, there is no basis for claiming that the research catches of blue whiting have gone beyond coastal fishing. Of the Norwegian cod quota, 7 000 tonnes are allocated for research and monitoring purposes. Furthermore 300 tonnes of hake and 200 tonnes of other species are allocated for the same purpose. Of the 7000 tonnes of cod set aside, 5 000 tonnes are disposed of by the monitoring service, while 2 000 tonnes are allocated to the necessary catch related to the research stick. Per. On 8 October 2004, 1400 tonnes of cod have been caught in research, while 220 tonnes of hake and 130 tonnes of other species have been fished. Under the quota agreement with Russia for 2004, Norway may take up to 3000 tonnes of blue kelvins for research purposes. However, Norway has chosen to limit Norway’s research catches to 2400 tonnes of blue kelvins in 2004, and the Marine Research Institute has been authorised to take this amount in 2004. To date, 1,242 tonnes of blue kelvins have been reported as research catches in 2004. It is both necessary and useful for fish to be made available for research and monitoring purposes. As a responsible fishing nation, Norway cannot fail to report this catch or to deduct the research catches from the Norwegian quota. However, it is important that no greater quantities are allocated to field research or monitoring than are necessary for the implementation of these activities. Therefore, as in previous years, the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will assess the volume of catches for research and monitoring purposes in 2005. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the research catch of blue kelvins does not go beyond the coastal fleet’s fishing for blue kelvins in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1157	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That's the last thing she said, which I asked for. If it's right that it doesn't affect the coastal fleet's share of the quota for blue whiting, cod, haze and sein, that's good. But I don't feel completely calmed down. Yet, is the Council of State correct? The fish is sold and makes a lot of money. It is the fishermen who pay in the form of reduced quotas for the research being carried out. It is already paid by fishermen – before the research. Is the Council of State right? Does the Council of State think it is the fishermen who have to pay for all research in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1166	Based on the answer I have received from the Ministry of Fisheries about this, it is as I said that in the case of blue kelvins, the research catch does not go beyond the coastal fleet fishing in Norway. That's what I'm adding to is right. I am sure that if it turns out not to be right, the Storting will be informed about it. It is important to take into account fishermen, including fishermen's economy, in relation to both blue herds and other catches, primarily by providing knowledge and an overview of the population. This is why research is important. Based on my knowledge of this, it is important that there is room for research and for the catch necessary for this, but, as I said, it should not – based on the data I have available – be such as to affect the quota of coastal fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1173	I thank you again for the answer. I'm aware that the Council of State can't give an adequate answer, she's the Council of State. But this is politics! Is the policy of the Left that everything should pay off in this society? The left must have an opinion on that. It's going on research, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, it's going on, Should users pay for it? What are we paying taxes for? Can the Councils answer that? – That was a simple question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1178	The question was significantly expanded. State Council Skogsholm can answer if she wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1181	I'm happy to answer. When we talk about things going to pay off, yes, in a sustainable sense, it's going to pay off. It's supposed to be that we're fishing on the basis of a policy that it's going to be a sustainable population, both of weeds and other varieties. That is why we must also give room for research. As far as transport policy is concerned, there's something I need more than 27 seconds to answer, so I'm going to ask for it to come back at a different rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1188	Question 10 has been addressed earlier today – we move on to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1195	My question goes to the Minister of Health: ‘From the different health regions, in particular from Health South, I have been informed that the number of daily places planned at the district psychiatric centres is significantly reduced. Does this decrease in daily places at the DPS occur after approval by the Minister of Health, and does this not conflict with the psychiatry escalation plan adopted by the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1204	The development of district psychiatric centres in health regions is followed up according to approved plans. 65 DPSs are established and approx. 10 is still under planning or construction. As explained in the 2005 State budget, there were 1,801 DPS posts in 2003, an increase of 324 since 1988. The action plan's target of 220 seats in the DPS in 2008 is set. In the draft budget, the government presents an overall review of the plans of regional health enterprises. Here reference is made to the fact that the number of planned DPS sites exceeds what was originally foreseen. I have especially assured myself of this in relation to Health Sør and the Hospital Telemark HF, and I can confirm that daily seats at the DPS are still planned in line with the norms drawn up in St.prp. No 63 for 1997-1998. Any major change in the regional health establishments must be submitted to the Ministry, which will take account of the adjustments that regional health establishments wish to make. This will also apply in relation to changes in the new regional plan in Health South, compared to the old county plans taken over by Health South. In the case of psychiatric hospitals, regional health establishments have reduced the number of places much faster than foreseen in the escalation plan. I share with the representative Alvheim's concern about the reduction of the total number of daily places in the specialist health service, and in particular because the reduction of places in psychiatric hospitals has gone much faster than originally planned, so that the number of places in psychiatric hospitals is already lower than would be assumed after the end of the escalation plan. It is also necessary to see this reduction in the context of how municipalities meet housing needs through the development of organised housing in municipalities. I have therefore given instructions in a letter of 15 September 2004 to the regional health establishments that no further reduction in the number of psychiatric hospital or other day-care centres is being carried out until a review of the housing needs in the municipalities has been carried out. As indicated in the budget, I propose that this review be carried out in consultation with relevant organisations and that the Stortinge will be briefed on the status during 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1224	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But the information he says he provides about daily places on the DPSs does not match the reality of the decisions that exist. I am very pleased that the Minister of Health recently put his foot down and gave clear notice to the companies to stop the construction of psychiatric beds. I assume that it will also apply to the scheduled daily places in our DPSs. One of the main intentions of building the DPSs under the new psychiatry plan was to establish a sufficient number of daily places in the districts, with relatively low accommodation thresholds but with professional follow-up. Is the Minister of Health and Health and the Ministry firmly committed to this intention and will the Minister of Health ensure that the intention is followed in the respective companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1233	It is quite obvious that what was Stortinget's intention, and as I see it, Stortinget's intention with the entire psychiatry action plan, will be followed up. With the draft budget that we have presented, it is also an opportunity to realise it. In the case of DPS and the number of beds, the action plan provides for approx. Two hundred beds. It'll be able to be met by the level of funding we've invested in. I have, as I said, stopped the degradation that has occurred at a much too fast rate in the case of psychiatric hospitals, which, incidentally, the Storting has previously been informed about has been a reality. But in addition to that, I also have in St.prp. No 1 said that I would go through the housing needs of the municipalities, which in the action plan are limited to 3,400 new dwellings, to see if the need is actually greater, also in view of the fact that the psychiatric hospital sites have been built more than originally foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1242	I once again thank the Council of State for the answer, and I just want to confirm what I said instead, that Health South has decided to significantly reduce the number of daily seats in the DPS both in the border region and in the Kongsberg region, and that so far during this budgetary period there is not enough operational resources for the daily places already established. Will the Minister of Health take a look at this and, where appropriate, ensure that the daily places built are put into service, with full professional follow-up? I also think it is right to ask the Minister of Health to enter into the professional scope of psychiatry and to contribute to a greater degree of consensus in the treatment procedures of the various psychiatric hospitals. We can no longer accept the nose congementality that we see among some psychiatrists. So we don't get full and equivalent treatment for all patients, no matter where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1251	To put it first, of course, in relation to what is happening on the DPS in Health South, I will look at it again after the invitation from the head of the Social Committee. Of course! As far as the last thing, which goes on the subject of professional disagreement -- which is very big in psychiatry, unlike in somatic matters -- I fully share Alvheim's concerns about looking at and implementing a process that ends up with a greater degree of consensus. There will always be some disagreement, but I feel pretty sure that it should also be possible within psychiatry to get a core of consensus in the treatment line we have. I've signaled that. I have also mentioned that at the meetings I have had in the regional health companies. I have the impression that the management of regional health companies is concerned about getting some standards, which have been obtained within a number of other medical branches.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1261	‘The serious incident on Kato Air’s Narvik–Bodø route showed that it was possible for a passenger to enter the cockpit to attack the pilots. The flight path in question is operated by the smallest aeroplanes on the short-haul network, where the flight deck is not protected and where cabin crew are not.’ – I have noticed that the Competition Authority in an opinion to the Ministry of Transport on the offer on the short-haul network has proposed in the future that the requirements on flight sizes on the short-haul network should be softened in order to increase competition and thereby reduce costs. It touches on the issue that I am now raising in the question. On that basis I ask: ‘Will the Council of State, at the next round of tenders, require the cockpit to be protected by the door and that cabin crew in the aeroplanes are maintained to improve safety?’ [[from 2006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1270	For many years, it has been common for flights on the short-haul network in Norway to have been conducted with an open cockpit door. And on flights where there is no other cabin crew, this is necessary for the flight crew to communicate and have eye contact with passengers. Today’s legislation does not require the installation of a cockpit door between the passenger and flight crew compartment in the smallest aeroplanes. According to the Air Safety Authority, it is not appropriate to introduce such requirements for the flight crew compartmentalisation of these aeroplanes, and this would also be contrary to international certification provisions for small aeroplanes, which require the flight crew to be able to maintain communication with passengers. Today's legislation requires cabin crew on board aeroplanes having more than 19 passenger seats. This requirement is enshrined in international aviation regulations to which Norway has joined. The Ministry of Transport purchases air route services from airlines in response to tenders at the regional airports in Norway. In my opinion, it would not be right to impose other and stricter requirements on the flight deck door or cabin crew of the companies to operate on the state’s tendering routes than on other Norwegian aviation. On some of the least-travel routes, it has been found that companies operating with aeroplanes with less than 20 passenger seats are competitive and provide services that are well-suited to local traffic needs. I don't think it's right to exclude these aircraft types or the companies that operate them from competing for the operation of the state's air routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1283	I thank you for the answer, but I can't say that I'm satisfied with it. It's true that Twin Otter has been operating on the grid every year, and it hasn't caused such events as what we've seen now. But this time, what neither of us thought could happen from a small airport. There's no need to be a post-clock. But I have to ask the Minister for Transport: does she agree that the safety of the pilots on an aircraft would be better if you could close the cockpit again with a door – a security measure that Backøe introduced after this incident?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1290	Let me say that I understand very well the question, because none of us had predicted that such an event could happen. I think many of us afterwards as travellers ask these questions. I would also like to stress that I feel that it is important that I or other politicians should not be the ones who set the level and the devices on aircraft and how to clean it technically, without having listened to the advice that has come. Both national and international regulators have been in and out here saying what they think is the right device. What is underlying in relation to the smallest aircraft types, as I understand the legislation, is the possibility of contact backwards. It can be useful, as opposed to looking at it as a threat. I would also like to remind you that after this incident, we have all the security controls in place before boarding the plane, so that something like that can happen, that you get on an axed plane.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1297	My final comment is that security and economics are interrelated. It is a political choice which aircraft types are to be used on the runway network. So if you make the decision to have a standard and an aircraft type where you can also make sure that you can shut down the cabin, it's a political decision. For the SV section, we will follow up this question before the tenders are published.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1302	This may have the consequence that larger aircraft are required on some flight routes. Then I have no guarantee that we can get a new round of which airports need to be laid down quite quickly. This has a cost in itself, that is quite right, both for those who live there and are affected, and for the authorities, whether or not large investments should be made. Then I would like to remind you that this government joined in 2001, and that year it was used 5 million. kr on security measures. It's now using 650 million. kr on measures to ensure that it is safer. It's absolutely right that this has something to do with economics, and we're prioritizing it. It will cost several hundred million dollars in operation each year. We give priority to that, and I think that is the right decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1315	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The road authorities of the Member States shall make up to three ferries in the Fleak-Rørvik connection during the next concession period. The extension from two to three ferries may come as late as 1 July 2007. It's 6.5 pst today. remaining vehicles and the problem is spreading to normal working days. Will the Council of State help to increase the capacity of this link before that date, so that the residual percentage can become as normally required today?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1324	The related Fleck-Rørvik was invited to tender on 30 September 2004. The tendering period will be initially from 1 July 2006 to 30 June 2014. It has been suggested that any efficiency gains resulting from the competitive outsourcing should be used to meet the new long-term standard described in the National Transport Plan 2006-2015. In any case, there will be uncertainty as to the prices that can be achieved in a competitive situation. Therefore, two offers are requested from the competition body. One option corresponds to current capacity, while the other corresponds to the new long-term standard described in the national transport plan, which will allow for a higher standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1333	I perceive the answer so that the Council of State will not do any of the world's things until 2007. This is an important matter for many. It's really chaos many times a week, and if this had been on the Gardermo, it would come on the Day Revy. There is an unacceptable long wait today. It happens in a situation where the Fozen Mechanical Workshop has little activity, they contribute a lot of traffic. A traveler must enter the risk of more than one hour of waiting if he is to proceed with an aeroplane or have an important agreement. To continue like this for three more years is irresponsible. Does the Council know how many of the larger ferry lines are waiting for as long as the very connection we're talking about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1342	Now I said in my reply that the tendering period should be from 1 July 2006 – and that is what I am familiar with under two more years – and until 2014. It's a goal that we should have better standards on this type of distance. Where we have an overcast that's so high, we have a clear goal that it has to go down. This is a number that is too high in relation to the standard that we want. That is why we now have this tendering procedure going on, in order to look at the possibilities of getting a better offer in place. I think that's doing something.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1349	The road authorities have said that any third ferry will not arrive until 1 July 2007 – if a third ferry is needed. I think three years from today is a long time to wait, when this is far below the standard that is normally required. I think it's a shame if you can't get anything done with this. One way to increase capacity is to go from 35 minutes of frequency to 30 minutes of frequency. Another way is to put an extra ferry. This costs more money for society, but that's what it costs for those who stand in this line, who risk having to stand in line for an hour when they're busy, we're going to think first and foremost. So this is about travelers to and from the Fosen, and I think they have the same requirements for regularity and the ability to arrive as planned as people who travel in another way. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1356	Well, it's a goal for me that people don't have to sit in line for a long time, whether it's in line for the city in the morning when you're going to work, or in a ferry queue, or sitting over a ferry. It is the goal that we should have transport solutions around the country that are decent and of great benefit to everyone. This is about the seventh and last quite right about the budget and the money. We have a solid holiday budget, which we then try to put together in such a way that we get the best possible standard all over the place. We spend over $1 billion on taxpayers' money for this holiday effort. And I think that's absolutely right, it would just be missing if we didn't. At the same time, I have just answered a question about something that is perhaps going to be very economical in relation to airports and routes around the country. In other words, we must give priority to the use of money. But I want us to also have a higher standard on all ferry connections.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1366	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1369	I have asked the Minister for Defence the following questions – a question that will therefore be answered by the Minister for the Environment: ‘The aid granted to the War Invalidity Home of Bæria will be cut from 2005, with the result that the current operation will cease. Does it not seem to the Council of State that, with their great efforts in various places abroad, rich Norway should also be able to afford to ‘care’ those who have been willing to sacrifice everything, when they themselves need help after often very dangerous missions in the service of peace?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1378	The Ministry of Defence has for several years provided financial support for the operation of the United Nations Federation of veterans. In addition to the operating aid, since 1999, a specific aid for a separate test project has also been granted to the War Invalidity Home of Bäreia. The aim of the project was to use available capacity as a welfare, recreation and competence centre for former peace soldiers and their families. The current year represents a total of 7,5 million of the State subsidy to the Federation of the United Nations veterans. SEK, of which 4,3 million. kr for the linked project at Bäeria. Support includes 1.5 million. as an exceptional grant to cover the estimated deficit at home for 2003 and 2004. In this respect, it was considered a clear premise that the State contribution to Bæria should be terminated, cf. The treatment of budget revenue by the Storting. S. No 7 for 2003-2004, where the Defence Committee expresses the following: ‘The Committee has noted that the pilot project at Bæria war disabled home will be completed in 2004 and that from 2005 it is assumed that Bæria will be fully user-funded and the operation adapted to the income of the home.’;» With regard to the 2005 State Budget, the Government has proposed that the United Nations Federation be allocated a total of 4.2 million. kr over the defence budget, including 2.5 million. kr to provide support to comrades and various measures for UN/NATO soldiers and their families. The Ministry is also aware that the Foundation Krigsundvalidehomemmet Bäreia has concluded an agreement with the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, which will take over the home from 1 January 2005. With the National Association that owns, as well as the Federation of the United Nations and the veterans of war after World War II, it will still be possible to use Bærea. In order to improve the follow-up of Norwegian soldiers who have served abroad, the Government of the State budget for next year has proposed the establishment of a new system of compensation for psychological damage caused by participation in international operations, etc. The compensation is based on medical disability and is up-limited to six times the basic amount of the public interest. In addition to the proposed allocation of the United Nations Federation of veterans and the new compensation scheme for psychological damage to UN veterans and participants in international operations, the defence has established its own national military medical outpatient clinic. The purpose is to provide long-term follow-up of injured military personnel and veterans in health, insurance and social security matters. Even family members will be able to get help from the clinic. Overall, the above-mentioned measures significantly strengthen the offer of defence to UN veterans and other personnel involved in international operations to meet the specific needs of these groups in a good and targeted manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1396	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was complementary and good, to say it like that. But it's mostly about United Nations veterans, not as much about those for whom the war invalid home of Bæria was actually built, namely those who were in the second world war and who, as I said, were willing to sacrifice everything in the service of peace. This is, of course, a small group, which unfortunately, for natural reasons, is getting smaller, but it's all the more important for those who have been with and who need help. I'm aware, of course, that the United Nations veterans may need a different kind of help, and it seems to be taken care of with this answer here. But it's the people who have used Bæria for what Bæria can offer, quiet surroundings, therapy baths and other help when they need it, I'm especially afraid to lose this offer. Therefore, I really wanted the Council of State to give a promise that it was made out of funds that were earmarked for the purchase of places at Bærea, so that they do not come back in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1401	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Bredvold, that it is important that this group be well drawn on. That is why it has also been a project that has facilitated this. However, the Ministry has also, in the same way as the Stortinget has done, assumed that this project would receive an exceptional grant in 2003 and 2004. But as was also said by the Defence Committee: ‘The Committee has noted that the pilot project at Bæria war disabled home will be completed in 2004 and that from 2005 it is assumed that Bæria will be fully user-funded and the operation adapted to the income of the home.’;» And that's this department now following up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1411	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. We hope that there will be funds both in 2005 and beyond, so that we can take special care of the older age group that I am thinking of, but also, of course, those who have been in the UN service in the past, those who are today, and those who will be in the future. As Bæria operates today, there is a mixture of people 80-90 years old, and people many younger, who have been in the United Nations service a few years ago. Both of these groups obviously need help, but they might need different kinds of help. The kind of help that the elderly especially need, they have at Bæria, and I'm concerned that there should be the opportunity to buy places there.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1418	I am pleased with the commitment of the representative of Bredvold to this group. I also hope that Bæria will be a good offer in the future, and it will also help. I would like to take with me the views of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1426	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘Enova’s main objective is to promote an environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and production. According to a survey in Today's Business on 3 September, there has been considerable disagreement within Enova about the use of resources. According to DN, Enova’s trade record was skeptical for the heat pump supplement in the winter of 2003 due to the lack of energy. uncertainty about the long-term impact, but Enova nevertheless initiated the support scheme ‘on request from policy management in the OED’. To what extent must Enova’s role as a trade union body give way to political leadership?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1435	First of all, I want to take this opportunity to clarify that it was the government that initiated the immediate arrangement for the household in the winter of 2003, and not Enova, as it was created by. The scheme was promoted in St. Prp. No 42 for 2002-2003 and adopted by the Council on 25 February 2003. The main purpose of the scheme was to give motivated households an opportunity to do something about their energy use in the light of the special power situation we had in winter 2002/2003. When the scheme was proposed, it was made clear that this was a limited scheme and that experience was to be evaluated. We are now doing that, and the evaluation will be ready by the end of the year. The role of Enova in this has been to manage the mechanism adopted by the Stortinget in February 2003. Enova has treated more than 50000 applications. Of the 50,000, about 46 500 met the criteria for the scheme and were offered aid. Of these, about 20 000 have accepted aid and made investments. Enova has followed them up through payment and verification that the measures have actually been implemented as foreseen. As to the extent to which Enova's role as a specialist body must give way to political leadership, I would point out that the framework for the management of the Energy Fund is enshrined in an agreement between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Enova. This Agreement is based on the principles of energy conversion and the organisation of activities established in the context of the processing of the Energy Communication, St.meld. No 29 for 1998-1999 and later for Ot.prp. No 35 for 2000-2001 on the establishment of the Energy Fund and Enova. An important principle in the energy conversion and management of Enova is that the authorities set the objectives and financial framework for their activities, while it is up to Enova to design and select the most effective support measures. In addition to the management of the Energy Fund, Enova has an advisory role with the authorities and may be entrusted with other management tasks. This immediate arrangement for households is an example of such a management operation. Both in terms of the advisory role, and in relation to such additional management tasks, I will place great emphasis on the assessments Enova makes. On the other hand, there could always be other factors beyond the scope of Enova which need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1450	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Some of us questioned their use in the winter 2003 treatment of the Storting grant funds. I also took this up at the hearing with Enova's Executive Director. It was obvious that only heat pumps and pellet stoves were to be invested without any evidence that it was the most reasonable use of the money. That, however, was politically correct. The progress party promoted on the basis of this proposal that technology-neutral instruments should be used, and that the money should be used where they wasted most of their money in the form of new kilowatts. Does the Council of State now see that it would have been sensible to follow this advice from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1459	I am listening to all the good advice that comes, including from the Progress Party. I think there might be a lot of good reasons to look at the arrangements we have. But I remember that this immediate arrangement was adopted by Stortinget, and Enova has followed up that arrangement. We are now in a situation where we have an evaluation and an evaluation of the scheme that will be completed around the New Year. Then I would like to have an opinion on whether this was a reasonable use, or whether other types of instruments might be chosen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1464	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. In a letter to the Council of State, TELFO, the Land Association of Technical Entrepreneurs claimed that Enova is carrying out random and poor use of resources and misleading accounting reporting, and that they are too weak to ask questions about inefficient environmental policy objectives. There have also been allegations from the same team that, in the light of political intervention, 3 DKK are now being invested from the state to save 50 cents. Will the Council of State take these claims seriously, investigate and review Enova's organisation and objectives and ensure that the money used is spent where they are most useful? This is not least in view of the fact that, according to the Government's draft budget, this activity is now to be paid in full by electricity customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1473	As I said in my first answer, an important principle for the energy conversion and management of Enova is that the authorities set clear objectives and financial framework for the business, while it is up to Enova to design and choose the most effective support measures. I have no information to suggest that Enova does not meet the objectives imposed on them by the Government. I repeat that it is of course important to have an open dialogue with Enova. We've just had a meeting with them, where we've actually made a new agreement. I have no information that indicates that the goals we have set are not being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1484	‘According to the Evening Post of 21 September, the County of Eastfold investigates which parts of the new national park area of Hylerskjærgården may be banned from motorboat traffic [[pleasure boats,]] Does the Council of States consider this to be of general benefit to the protection work and will the Council of States ensure that the national assembly is given the opportunity to deal with the matter?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1491	It is the King of the Council of State who has made decisions under the laws of nature protection. In particularly important cases where protection interests and other major societal interests are in conflict, the Government may seek advice from the Storting in advance before a final decision is taken. This has been done in connection with a number of earlier protections where the power development interests were great: Hardangervidda, Jostedalsbreen and Saltberget-Svartisen. If it would be appropriate to ask Stortinget for advice in Hyler-saka, I have no basis today to say anything about it, as long as the matter is not on my table. Elles has both the national park plan and the forest plan previously presented to the Stortinget in his own messages without one having discussed the individual, concrete protection proposals in detail. The National Park Notice provided for the protection of Whaler. I'll see you here for a second. 9.4.4. in St.meld. No 62 for 1991-1992. The government has also briefed the Storting on its protection plan work through the annual budgets. It is not the first time that the question of the special large-scale management of concrete protection proposals has been raised here in Stortinget. One such discussion was associated with a Document No. 8-proposal to submit to the Stortinget the protective plan for Setesdal Vesthei-Ryfylkeheiane. I see here for Document No. 8:92 for 1995-1996 and Innst. S. No 92 for 1996-1997. The requirement for the collapse management of the protection plan was generally rejected by the majority, as in such cases the King was in the Council of State. However, the Committee pointed out in its opinion that the protection planning process should take place in a good and flexible manner, in order to ensure future constructive cooperation with municipalities, county councils and interests in the area. The implementation of good, democratic and inclusive security planning processes is also a matter of concern to the Government in all such matters. In my view, there is nothing new that has happened in these questions since the time that would lead to a change in the handling and decision-making practices that we have to consult in matters under the law on nature protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1502	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What is important in the future is to follow up the actual decisions taken by the Stortinget and the leaders put forward. I would like to read from the setting in connection with the processing of the National Park Plan. It says: ‘The Committee has noted that the St.meld Stortinget. No 62 are not invited to take decisions on individual proposals for protection.» This means that no mandate has been given from Stortinget to carry out a protection process in which to refuse or prevent boat traffic, as the county council has now stated. I would like to know a little bit more about how the Council of State has intended to follow the decision and the will of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1516	This item has not yet been added to my table. She is now being treated by the county council, and it is a great job. I know that there is also a constructive and good cooperation with the local municipalities, and I am pleased about that. I have also understood that some of the municipalities are positive about the work that is being done. This with motor travel on both sea and land was recorded. When there's motor traffic in the outland, there's a law of its own. In relation to whales and Fredrikstad, maritime traffic will also be decisive. There's a tradition attached to the coastal community and the area here for a considerable amount of boat traffic. That means that small boat traffic and commercial traffic, as I see it, should go on to a great extent as before. But it is clear that one must take care of important areas of protection in relation to seabirds and others. I want to look at the regulation here, but it's a tradition, and that tradition of traffic will of course continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1525	I thank the Council of State for the answer. One of the most important inputs we have received in this matter is that there is a complete lack of understanding in the population so that they are now going to fall over their heads a new regime. That you want to protect in some periods, when it's seabird and nesting time, I don't think anyone has any problems with it, but now that you start a protection process, you don't understand the population. The Council of State says this is not on his table, but then I would encourage the Council of State to get it on their table. In fact, what is happening now is that the county council is taking action beyond the leadership and decisions taken by the Storting, and that is why the state council should intervene, because this is not the proper use of resources. This assignment has not been given to the county council. My appeal to the Council of State is that he must ensure that he gets it on his table and stop this nonsense that the county councilman is carrying out.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1534	Firstly, I would say that protection work is an important work. I do not agree when the representative says this work will meet such local resistance. There's a lot of people who see the value of it. I'm busy having good, democratic processes in which everyone is allowed to be heard. The work that the county council is doing, which is the first part of a job, makes it possible to hear about it. If the Council of State intervenes at such an early stage, we will link the processes in which both local and stakeholder organisations are allowed to participate in important democratic work. I would like to make that right. Of course, it should facilitate a part of the culture in this area. I also feel that the state in its work has a broad approach to good planning that also takes into account local interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1546	‘In May, the size decided on a new predatory policy. The country was divided into predatory game regions, and stock targets and new policy guidelines were set. During the past year’s grazing season, predatory game management has fallen in many ways between the old and the new administration regime. What has been the current policy has been unclear. How will the Council of State improve the clarity and clarity of the deterrent management until the new deterrents come into operation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1553	The size shall be determined during the treatment of St.melding. No 15 for 2003-2004, Rovvilt in Norwegian nature, ref. Innst. S. No 174 for 2003-2004, the framework for a new predatory policy. The size assumed the creation of eight regional wild game subjects to be the principal responsibility for the management of wild game in each of their regions. The following shall be designated by the Ministry of the Environment among representatives of the counties and the Sameting. I have followed up this by letter of 23 June this year, where the Ministry of the Environment asks the municipalities, the Municipality of Oslo and the Sametinget to propose candidates for the respective regional game subjects. A draft regulation on the management of deer sent on 14 September of this year further clarified the mandate, tasks, responsibilities and working time of the regional authorities. The Ministry proposes that the names be given the responsibility for the preparation of a management plan for wild game, the responsibility for the prevention and mitigation of conflict in the region and the responsibility for the various hunting and killing regimes for wild game in the region within the framework of establishing stock targets for each species, in line with the Stortinget leadership. I am of the opinion that there is nothing unclear in what is the current predatory policy. After the treatment of the wild game message, the administration has assumed that the Storting has set national stock targets for all species. In the case of wolves, the Stortinge has also defined a new administrative area for young wolves. The new national stock targets and the new management area became effective from the date set in the Stortinget. Otherwise, today’s organisation and responsibility will continue until new administration with new administrative regulations is in place on 1 April 2005. I have noticed that several groups have wanted to trap the wolf on the Koppangskjöln this summer. I would like to remind you that it will be opened for the hunting of the wolf in this area until winter if it is possible to do so. Winter hunting is the most important instrument for bringing the management of the wolf in this area in line with the size of its leaders. Harm traps on pasture during the grazing season shall only be used where additional damage cannot be prevented by measures to protect the grazing animals. Through the treatment of a complaint case from Rendalene municipality, I have recently granted permission for the killing of a wolf in the vicinity of the property. The reason for this is because they may not be preventable by other means. It is my hope that everyone now gathers around the broad agreement that was in Stortingen on new predatory policies. This agreement will in future provide a policy of local anchoring and better motivation for the implementation of prevention measures, and mitigate conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1568	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There is nothing to say about the review of the theory of predatory policies, but it is the practice that has failed during the summer. The Council of State now mentioned that there had been a mottled permit. But it came legally late and almost in the form of emergency food. The rough game agreement in Stortinget was to reduce the wolf load in large parts of Hedmark. But what people have experienced is the opposite. It's a bigger predatory load. It goes on trust, and people in Hedmark are now wondering who really controls the design of the policy. My question will therefore be: who really has the design and who is responsible for the practical policy now in this interim period until the participants begin to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1575	This is how the predatory area is a difficult area. From the day one, when the Storting decided this, we have made a wish to follow up the Storing's intentions to the greatest extent possible. It's made a big deal. The store has left this matter behind. But it is also true that in winter we have our main instrument to facilitate the policy adopted by the Stortinget. I had this summer to assess a possibility. I figured out that there was no basis for that possibility at that time. Then there have been several things that have made it necessary, and so I gave Friday last week permission to bury the wolf in order to follow up the Storting's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1582	I would like to thank you again for your answer. I am well aware that the last Friday was the adoption of a penitentiary permit. But it took a very long time for it to come. Already in May, we adopted a new predatory policy, so it is now important that the management system of the regional predators will come into operation from 1 April. This costs money. It is therefore true that the funds for the management of predatory animals have not increased in the draft budget. I have heard that it follows 9 000 kroner with the cancellation permit that was granted on the Koppang cooling now last Friday. But it actually doesn't seem to have half the hunting team out for more than one day. It is therefore amazing that it is not being added to more money to get the new game management up, to use that expression. How will the Council of State explain the context of this problem area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1593	As the representative, Mr Enger, also stresses, we are on time to reach the deadline of 1 April 2005. The department will do everything in its power to follow up on this in the best possible way. In relation to the question of the economy, that is, among other things. to apply for financial support from the county. Thus, in relation to the killing course we have now given, one can apply to the county for a financial contribution of up to NOK 10000 to cover direct costs associated with the killing attempt. This applies initially also here, and the municipalities are free to apply for such funds. Of course, the county council will deal with such an application in an ordinary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-13.ana.ud2594e1600	So we're done with case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
