ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e24	The representatives Karin Andersen and Thore A. Nistad, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e36	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kjell Engebretsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meeting today. The representative of Jorunn Ringstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e43	On behalf of Åslaug Haga and myself, I will be able to submit a proposal on the stoppage and consistency of the proposal for the closure of traffic stations as part of the conversion of the State Road Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e48	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e51	On behalf of the representatives of Carl I. Hagen, Siv Jensen, André Kvakkestad and myself, I would like to propose measures to combat crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e56	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e68	The President will propose that the debate on the throne be organised as follows: The debate will be opened with an intervention by the Prime Minister of up to 20 minutes. Then each of the opposition lots receives an article of up to 10 minutes. Following these insertions, a row of up to five lines is given. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, followed by a row of up to three lines. In addition, 46 posts of up to 5 minutes are distributed among the groups as follows: the Working Party 12 posts, the Right 11 posts, the Advance Party 7 posts, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 6 posts each, the Centre Party 3 posts and the Left 1 posts. In addition, the representative Simonsen shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. After up to two of the five-minute submissions from each group, a row of up to three rows is made available. Finally, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the posts allocated, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e85	Today's welfare society is the result of more than a hundred years' work on building well-being. The Norwegian welfare model is also a cross-political project – anchored in many parties and governments. The accident insurance law for factory workers was our first social security law. It came in the 1890s. At this very early stage, the Norwegian welfare society was a welfare society with arrangements largely based on needs tests. Today, our welfare society is based on rights and universal arrangements. This must continue to be a guiding principle of welfare policy. We are living in a time of globalisation and individualisation. In many European countries, there is a debate about whether the welfare society is a precious handicap that we cannot afford in an increasingly competitive world. True, we are facing challenges, but we are going to meet them with a clear and offensive attitude: we are going to defend the welfare community. But if we are to ensure well-being, we need to renew welfare systems, because the challenges are new. I want to focus on this topic in this article. The goal is clear: The welfare systems shall provide security!They shall contribute to equivalency and equalisation.They shall be designed to meet the individual’s needs in changing situations of life. All shall have the same security in relation to the welfare arrangements, irrespective of their economy, residence and functioning. Everyone shall have the right to a decent life and quality of life, regardless of personal resources. This must be the starting point when we consider the need for reforms in welfare systems. Social security is a pillar of the welfare community. It is the most important instrument for creating social protection and ensuring people's income and living conditions at different stages of life. More than a quarter of the expenditure on the State budget is currently being spent on popular protection. In addition, transfers to municipalities, to hospitals, kindergartens, child allowances and cash support, come to mention something. All of this is about welfare for the individual. Security for children and the elderly, a good school, a good health service and a comprehensive social safety network are what we connect with the Nordic welfare model. There is a broad political consensus on protecting this model. But protection does not mean resistance to change. On the contrary, if we are to maintain and further develop welfare systems, they must be adapted to a new reality. An example of such a new reality is that when Social Security was introduced, the Nordics worked on average for 44 years and were pensioners for 10 years; now we work on average for 35 years and are pensioners for 20 years. Our welfare systems are seizing an increasingly large proportion of the value added. We're getting more and more older. Professional life is changing. The general development of wealth causes people to impose other requirements on public services. The government's policy must therefore be more ambitious than passive to continue yesterday's solutions. The objective is clear: we need to strengthen and renew welfare systems. The systems of popular fear must also be modernised. We must dare to ask whether the arrangements really meet those who need them, and we must dare to ask whether they help to get the most work done. Well-being is not created by itself. Well-being is not financed by itself either. We first have to create incomes to get something to use on well-being. Therefore, well-being is also about value creation. It's the workforce that's our most important resource. How we manage this resource is crucial to how we manage to meet the welfare needs of the future. In 2003 was 76 pst. by the population aged 15–64 employed in Norway. It is 10 percentage points higher than the EU average. Among OECD countries, only Iceland and Switzerland had a higher employment rate than Norway. Compared to other countries, Norway has a particularly high employment rate among older workers and women. Norway has a low working time per year. employed in international context. Value creation per However, the hours worked are high. This means that Norwegian workers are completely at the top of the world in terms of productivity and efficiency. This is a good basis for creating the welfare society of the future. Lack of work is the main cause of poverty. But work is not just a source of income. The workplace is also an important social community. Welfare through own labour income is therefore a key strategy for a better welfare society. Unemployment in Norway is low on an international scale. In 2003, the unemployment rate in the EU amounted to 8 p.m., which was almost twice that of us. However, unemployment in Norway is too high and must be controlled on a broad front. A stable and long-term economic policy is our best contribution to preventing high and rising unemployment. Unemployment is now decreasing. The number of persons employed has increased by 10,000 people since the turn of the year. We're on the right track. We have laid the foundations for this through responsible fiscal policies and long-term work to create and secure jobs. This positive policy must be pursued. The government places great emphasis on a working life with room for all. We want to reduce long-term leave. Aetate has been strengthened to provide better guidance and follow-up to jobseekers. It is important that people who depend on temporary social security benefits or social assistance can become self-sufficient through regular work. The government will therefore now launch an effort to use disability benefits as wage subsidies to help more people from social security to work. At the same time, the Government will contribute to the inclusion and valuation of all, regardless of their working capacity. We must ensure that all those who are unable to participate in the world of work are also involved in the development of well-being. The continuation of the broad general welfare arrangements has been the main priority of the budgets of this government. So far, there has been a real growth of about $20 billion in the cost of Social Security. This is well-being. Two thirds of these are linked to sickness benefits, rehabilitation and rehabilitation benefits and disability pensions. Thus, expenditure in this area is growing strongly. And yet we haven't particularly noticed the effect of increasing retirement. In other areas, too, the Government has made a strong commitment to welfare measures. Let me just give you a few examples: The state grants to kindergartens and to the psychiatry plan have more than doubled since 2001. Hospital treatment covered by the intervention funding scheme is expected to increase by more than 10pst. from 2001 to 2004. Hospital appropriations have actually increased by DKK 4.5 billion between 2001 and 2004.The action plan for the elderly, which is now in its final phase, facilitates the construction of around EUR 4.5 billion. 39 000 nursing homes and homes. The share of single rooms in institutions has increased significantly and is now in 91,5 pst. We will achieve the goal that everyone who wants it will get exclusive. The list could be done even longer. Some claim that tax haven't been the main priority of the Government in the last three years, and that this has reduced welfare spending. That's wrong. We're building the welfare systems and the public service, we're not building them up. Much can be done better. There are still many unsolved tasks. But we're on the right track. For well-functioning welfare systems, services must be transparent and accessible. Here we see room for improvement. The Government will therefore propose a new Labour and Welfare Administration for the New Year’s Storting. One of the main objectives of this reform is to increase employment and reduce social security. We want users to meet a more coordinated administration. The so-called SATS reform shall contribute to the realisation of this in the municipalities. By bringing together the responsibility for social security, social security and employment in a new department, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which was established last Friday, we have also laid a better foundation for this. The state spends over 300 billion dollars on welfare schemes every year in this country. No one would think that it is because too little money is allocated in total, that there is still poverty in Norway. But the problem is that there are some people who fall outside our welfare systems, because the schemes don't hit well enough those who need it the most. This shows that we also need more targeted action. As a result, since the beginning, the co-operation administration has put poverty control high on its priority list. In 2004, the level of new and targeted measures against poverty is around DKK 1 billion. This is in addition to the general welfare schemes, which of course are still there. The general welfare systems have raised large groups out of the poverty of the past linked to sickness and unemployment and contributed to social and economic security. However, some people today live in a situation of poverty and major living conditions problems. This is unworthy. We'll do something about that. We will therefore continue to step up targeted efforts in 2005 to prevent and help people out of poverty. The causes of the poverty problem are many and complex. There may be weak links with the labour market, poor health, drug problems and unstable housing conditions. Sustained low income and living conditions problems are largely linked to a weak relationship with the labour market. Many people need extensive assistance to establish themselves and stay in the labour market. This is long-term work, which requires systematic and coordinated action. The government's commitment to targeted labour market measures for immigrants and long-term recipients of social assistance shows that we can actually achieve it. Aetate reports that 46 pst. has been given work and 9 pst. has started self-financed education after participating in such activities. It's useful. Measures against the homeless and drug addicts and improvements in housing support schemes also provide more needed help. Welfare tasks are not just a public matter. Voluntary action is also central to the better functioning of the welfare society. Many welfare schemes were first launched under the auspices of voluntary, humanitarian and Christian organisations. Family members have also made a formidable effort in the form of care for family members every year. Voluntary action complements and complements public action. Voluntaryness creates involvement and active participants. We politicians can adopt a lot, but we can't adopt commitment, enthusiasm and glow. But as politicians, we can provide for all those who want to join in and create good fellowship. It has a self-esteem that people want to make an effort for others. It is great that people give of time and strength to a matter they burn for. We'll back that up below. The system of non-tax gifts to non-governmental organisations is a success. After the cooperative government increased the deduction from NOK 900 to NOK 6000, the gifts for voluntary work have increased significantly. Multiple gears, and more gears than before. This year, tax credits have been applied for for for more than 650 million gift vouchers. From 1 January 2005, the Ministry of Culture and the Church shall also be responsible for coordinating the government’s policy towards non-governmental organisations. Security for life, health and property is fundamental. That is why the fight against crime is important to the Government. Major, more organised and cross-border crime must be met decisively. It requires more policemen, an organisation that is better adapted to the new challenges, and openness to apply new methods. The government has embarked on a targeted effort to meet these challenges. We're increasing the capacity for police training. We set up New Kripos, which will become the country's strengthened national unit to combat organized and other serious crime. And we have put forward proposals for a new and modern penal code that meets the challenges of today's crime scene. A fair distribution of well-being also has a generational aspect. Those who come after us, too, are going to share in the welfare. This means that the arrangements must be financed and sustainable. It takes a lot of us. We are becoming less and less active in terms of social security to finance well-being. An older population increases the need for health care services and pension payments. Sick leave in Norway is higher than in most comparable countries. Most of the growth in the state budget is paying for the growth of welfare systems. Welfare must be ensured and welfare systems must be renewed. This must include, inter alia: by means of a responsible economic policy that ensures employment and keeps costs down and thus creates growth as a basis for well-being, a policy that stimulates more people to work and reduce social security, a policy that provides security in everyday life, security against crime, security of life, property and income. This forces us to look critically at the arrangements we have and how they can be renewed. We must have universal welfare systems that guarantee everyone a secure economy under sickness and disability and in the life of a pensioner. We still have to have arrangements that give rights and are not perceived as alms. We must have targeted measures for those who fall outside the welfare systems and live in poverty. We need a new pension system that is economically sustainable. We should better coordinate measures for work, social security and social security, with the aim of facilitating work for more people. But there are no measures and figures that matter first and foremost. That's what people notice in their everyday lives. It means something when I meet older people in a nursing home who say that they really couldn't have felt better. It means something when I meet a family who struggles with the time frame, but who says that thanks to the cash support they have been given the freedom of choice and the opportunity to spend more time on their children. It means something when I get letters from young people who have had mental problems and who thank them for having been helped to recover. There is little reason for pessimism. Norway is a rich country – rich in opportunities. We have a productive and highly skilled workforce. We all have opportunities to strengthen and renew the welfare community. In the middle of our challenges, we must not forget those who do not even have a welfare society to reform. Still, every fourth person in the world has less than $10 per cent. day to live off. Still, a child dies every three seconds of poverty. Our official development aid this year will amount to about 15 billion kroner, an increase of 2.7 billion since 2001. We're going to continue with a powerful escalation next year as well. In two days’ time, the Government will present its draft government budget for 2005. The budget will involve the further development of our welfare systems and a strong commitment to priority areas such as kindergarten, school, mental health and the fight against poverty in this country and internationally. But experience suggests that although this will be a budget for increased well-being, the critical voices will dominate in such a way that it appears as black paint. I'll warn you about it. We have not solved all the problems in Norway, and a critical searchlight can be put in place in several areas, but we must not contribute to a completely distorted image of the Norwegian welfare community. Let's remember this, both on Wednesday and in the days that come. The government will also meet the Stortinget in this session with the intention of cooperating also with the opposition parties. We are aware that the Cooperation Government is a minority government. We invite Stortinget to cooperate to make a good welfare society even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e191	It's going to be line change. The President will initially remind representatives that the speaking time for replies and replies is one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e196	Kjell Magne Bondevik said a lot about the need to renew our common welfare arrangements that I fully agree with, at least when we move on the general level. I believe that this type of innovation is easier to achieve with a strong majority government than with a weak minority government that needs to advance in the Stortinget. Then he boasted of the government's policy, and that is in itself a prime minister's full right. But it was a distorted picture of the reality he produced for the audience, because he forgot to say that unemployment is significantly higher now than when he took over as prime minister, he forgot to say that the number of social welfare recipients has increased sharply, and he forgot to tell about all the municipalities that are now struggling to keep order of basic welfare services such as school and care for the elderly. Among other things, in this city basic services are now cut to the elderly, and youth services are cut. For example, on Holmlia. is that two youth clubs are now being closed down. I believe that for the youth at Holmlia, who experience that the youth offer is weakening, the development is not going in the right direction. Nevertheless, the government says that the large amount of money in the years to come will be spent on lower taxes. The question is whether Bondevik actually believes that this is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e205	The main thing that has been given by tax haven't gone to our companies to secure and create jobs. The Labour Party has voted in favour of approx. two thirds of it, so the Workers' Party itself has shown that tax laws may be necessary to ensure well-being. So says Stoltenberg that he wants a strong majority government. Yes, it will be interesting to see the strength of what he is aiming for becomes, with disagreement on NATO, disagreement on EEA, disagreement on defence policy, on gas power policy, etc., and with parties attacking the cooperation regime from two widely differing sides, for example. in the case of land consolidation laws and protection policies. The strength of it should be interesting to see. Unemployment is too high, but under this government it has fortunately never been as high as when Jens Stoltenberg was Minister for Industry. The local economy is weak in some municipalities, and we are working to gradually strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e216	I am pleased that the Prime Minister now announces that there will be a system of unpaid pay spent on wage subsidies, which we in the Progress Party have fought for for a long time through our welfare reform. However, I also noticed that the Prime Minister said that in terms of the renewal of welfare systems, one must be more ambitious than continuing today's arrangements. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether this will also be the effect of the proposals that the Government will make in connection with the pension notification. In the Pension Commission, the members of the Government Parties and the Workers' Party have argued that it is about saving money in respect of pension payments for the future, in relation to the continuation of today's schemes. I guess there's also a proposal for a modernised social security system, which means lower pensions for those who have lower and middle pensions, and slightly higher pensions for those who already have high pensions. Can the Prime Minister confirm that this will not be followed up by the Government, but that one should therefore be more ambitious than a continuation of today's arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e221	Yes, we will be more ambitious than just continuing today's system. The reason for this is that today's people's security system is not economically sustainable and will collapse if we don't do anything. That's the worst thing we can do for future generations and for future pensioners. Those who are at Hagen's and my age will get a good pension, but I also want our descendants to get it. Then we can't let today's system continue like it is now, because, as I said, we pay in ten less years than before, and take out ten more years than before, and then it collapses. The government is fully working on its pension notification, which we aim to promote before the New Year. We are based on three basic principles. The system must be economically sustainable, there must be a minimum guaranteed pension for all, and there must be a system that encourages one to stay longer in work than many today do, where the actual retirement age is less than 60 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e228	I agree with the principle that the Prime Minister takes, namely that there is no reason to blackmail in Norway, but just see what enormous opportunities we have, and that very many other countries envy us. That's why it's so strange that the Christian People's Party chooses to be most concrete, most raw, in what this great period has also been characterized by, namely, tax relief. What this government has said is that it's going to give priority to the next four years is billions of additional tax relief. What the voters are saying today in an opinion poll is that they are much more concerned with more care, much more concerned with cleaning up the school than giving tax reliefs and most to those who have a lot from before. But when did this become the main priority of the Christian People's Party? Is it really that the Prime Minister believes that what the Norwegian society is calling for in the next four years is additional tax relief and not more to the community – the community that could just include many of those that Bondevik is afraid of being on the side of the world of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e233	No, tax haven't been the Christian People's Party's main priority. In fact, it has not been the primary priority of the Cooperative Government either. As I documented with figures in my article, the main priority of the Cooperation Government has been well-being. The increase in the cost of welfare schemes has been much higher than that of the tax administrations, which have voted for two thirds of – a small difference in degree – the future partners of the SV, the Workers' Party. The increase in welfare schemes will also be the main priorities of the future budget and of the future budget. It's a fact. But we have defended tax laws, and we have reached a compromise with the Right on that, because it is important to ensure well-being, to create and secure jobs that can be lost with an excessive tax burden. And even the SV and the Workers' Party have now said that today's tax level is reasonable to continue in the next period. So the terrible tax we've given in these three years is fine for the Workers' Party and SV in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e238	Well-being is a broad theme, but I'm a little surprised that during a 20-minute post, the Prime Minister doesn't mention the operation of important welfare tasks, which isn't happening in this room or in the Government, but in each of our 434 municipalities. That's where care for the elderly and the schools develop, and that's where it's decided whether we get decent care for the elderly, whether we can still have a free school. We give the municipalities the responsibility, but we're the ones who decide what possibilities they get. Only in the autumn is the tax failure in Norwegian municipalities NOK 2 billion. As a result of more older and more schoolchildren, only one billion kroner. How does the Government intend to cover up the four billion at the same time as they will bring great tax relief? And in what way has the Government intended to strengthen well-being by strengthening the ability of municipalities to actually promote well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e244	It is quite right, as the Central Party parliamentary leader says, that the local economy is important for well-being. The financial structure of the municipal sector in 2004 is, despite the fact that many municipalities are struggling with major problems, the best that has been in many years, much better than when the Central Party was otherwise placed in the Ministry of Local Affairs. The growth in free income, even with the tax deficit pointed out in 2004, is DKK 4 billion in 2004. This is an actual number, undisputed, better than in many years, but not well enough given the economy of many municipalities. But what is also important, and as the Central Party should remember after they have left the government, is that keeping the economy in order is also crucial for municipalities and their ability to operate well-being. Shooting prices, interest and wages speed, then the whole foundation is ruined. The co-operation administration has now got this under control, and it is important that we have a cooperation with the Stortinget that makes us still have it under control. It is not only the tax failure that matters to municipalities in 2004, it is also a low interest rate and a more moderate income trend.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e249	I think it would be an advantage for the debate on Kjell Magne Bondevik admitted that he was pressured to make substantial more promises of tax relief at the expense of, for example, the tax relief. municipal economy, school and well-being than the Christian People's Party really wants. It would have been honest to admit it, then the debate had become clearer. Before the 2001 elections, both the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party said that when we were going to spend some more oil money, we would spend 10-12 billion of it to ensure that fewer paid top taxes, and to eliminate the investment tax. The Labour Party has voted in favour of this, we propose it, and of course we still believe that. But the Right promised reliefs of 30-40 billion dollars, and Bondevik wrote a catchy letter to Jan Petersen warning against tax relief in that order, saying that there was a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin. Now, all of a sudden, Bondevik is in favour of tax reliefs of exactly the same size as he did before the elections in 2001, and so he does because he has had to give in to Right's demand for lower taxes, and it goes, as Bondevik put it in 2001, at the expense of the possibilities of financing care for the elderly, school and other welfare solutions. It's better to admit that you've given in to right forces than trying to say the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e254	The Christian People's Party has never had trouble admitting that we have reached a compromise with the Right on the tax. That's what we've been saying from day one. We had our own promise of NOK 12-13 billion. We agreed on a compromise of about 30 billion, while the right initially had 40 billion. That's what we warned against. It has not been, nor will it be – nor will we reach the 30 billion. But when it comes to admitting things, I think maybe the Workers' Party has something to learn. The Labour Party should admit that they have voted for most of what we have voted for by tax laws, and they should admit that they have said that the level to which we have now been given makes sense to continue. Then the debate would become a little bit more tidy, instead of operating with billions that Stoltenberg does not have, for all sorts of other purposes. The Christian People's Party has a program for tax relief. We've done that. We have reached a compromise with the Right, and we believe that this has helped stop the growth in unemployment and that employment is now increasing again. There will be a lot of compromises to admit to Stoltenberg if he gets to his government, and perhaps even more fundamental issues than tax breaks – the entire economic and monetary policy, on which the two parties on the left disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e265	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e268	This ageing period has probably been more marked than any other post-war ageing period by the fight against terrorism. It started the day after the election with the attack on New York and the Pentagon, then followed the invasion of Afghanistan, then the war on Iraq and now a few weeks ago the outrage against school 1 in Beslan. Terrorism, the fight against terrorism and attempts to combat terrorism have been the dominant so far in this period of mass destruction. We must fight terrorism, both the essence of terror and its causes, and it is about using military power, intelligence, police, but it is also about peacemaking, conflict resolution, combating poverty and oppression, and building understanding between cultures and religions. Is that what we have learned in recent years? That it is important to build international bodies to deal with conflicts such as the fight against terrorism, international bodies that can withdraw legal rules and respect international law and respect the UN in its efforts to combat terrorism. That is why the work on reforming the UN is an important part of the work on terrorism, and that is why efforts to strengthen the UN are also an important part of the work on terrorism, and so it is not least important that we respect the decisions and decisions taken jointly by the world community through the United Nations bodies. That is the lesson from Afghanistan and Iraq. Afghanistan was a military operation with wide international anchoring, anchoring in international law, and it was in agreement both in the United Nations and in NATO. Iraq was a military operation that did not have the necessary anchoring for the use of military force internationally, and it has helped to make things as bad as it has done in Iraq. It shows the importance of our respect for the UN and the UN decisions. This is essentially a broad consensus in Norway, but it would be wrong not to point out that the Progress Party actually faces a different line in this key, important international issue: how to create a better world with less differences, less terror and less uncertainty. The Progress Party was the party that thought Norway should contribute to the war against Iraq independently of decisions taken by the UN Security Council. The Progress Party is the party that cuts Norway’s financial contribution to the UN by up to 90 p.m. on each budget. The Progress Party will complete all public assistance, and the Progress Party will help build prejudices, build walls, where it is important to build prejudices, build bridges and build understanding. That is why I believe that the policy of the Progress Party would have actually led to more uncertainty, greater disparities and more conflicts in the world. That's the opposite of what we need. We need more understanding, no more prejudice and distance between people. It is very easy to be pessimistic when you look at the possibilities and work to contribute to a more peaceful world, a world of more justice and less oppression, and the work of trying to get to a better organized world. Nevertheless, I would mention three examples that in each of their fields, different as they are, provide the basis for optimism and belief that it is possible to get further into the work of a more fair world, characterized by more security and less conflict. One is what is now happening in Turkey. Turkey is a country with a Muslim population, nearly 70 million inhabitants. Turkey is now at full speed into Europe and wants to become a member of the EU. Once again, there are many economic challenges, but it is still the case that the new Turkish government is trying to reconcile Islamic tradition and culture with the Western demands for democracy, human rights, governance and transparency. If they succeed in that, it has been proved that it is possible to reconcile what has traditionally been perceived as Christian, Western values, with an Islamic-Turkish society, and to work together in the European Community and to bring down prejudices, the reduction of conflicts, and to contribute to preventing the processes that we see in religious wars and conflicts, which are just an important ground for terrorism and conflict in the world today. So the work of integrating Turkey into Europe is about much more than just integrating a country into Europe, it's actually about showing that traditional Western values can live together in a community, in the European Union, with a country that has an Islamic religion and an Islamic population. These are decisions that the European Union is now going to discuss. Norway shall not take part in those decisions. What the EU decides for becomes important to us in any case. It's a situation we're used to experiencing. The crucial thing is that the world has proved to be able to move forward even without Norway’s contribution. The second example is the Kyoto agreement. It was signed in 1997. Now Russia has made it clear that they will ratify. It is a major breakthrough in international efforts to combat our main remaining, unresolved environmental problems, namely the greenhouse effect. The important thing is that Russia, as one of the world’s largest countries in terms of CO2 emissions, contributes to the reduction of its emissions. However, there are also two other positive aspects of Russia's ratification of the Kyoto agreement on greenhouse gas emission reductions. One is that it increases the pressure on the United States, the United States becomes even more alone in its position to refuse to ratify the Kyoto agreement. The second is that the mechanisms that are so important in the Kyoto agreement, namely emissions trading and new means of reducing emissions, will be able to function significantly better if one gets with such a large and significant country as Russia. This is therefore important for Norway, whether we are talking about using the gas to a methanol factory, to gas treatment plants at Kårstø and Kollsnes or to gas power plants at Melkøy in Hammerfest – for which I understand the Prime Minister is in favour, but he is therefore against the gas power plant at Kårstø. In any case, it is that we get the allowance system that the EU is now establishing and, as the Kyoto agreement allows, it is much easier to have a sensible management of gas internationally, and climate change emissions could gradually start to decline. That's the second positive news from the international front. The third is that the number of children currently vaccinated is increasing. The proportion of children receiving the basic vaccines has increased in the last two years. It has been estimated by the World Health Organization that about half a million children's lives have been saved, because the vaccine rate for diseases such as measles, chick cough, yellow fever and other common childhood diseases is now increasing, thus reducing child mortality. This is three good news: the work in Turkey, the Kyoto agreement and the success of the vaccination of more children. Common to all of them is that they are the result of binding international cooperation, that countries join together and work together to build international institutions, whether it be the European Community, the European Convention on Human Rights, the United Nations' efforts to vaccinate the world's children or the Kyoto Agreement as a strong international agreement. For me as a social democrat, it's an example that we need both the big and the small communities. We need the community of the trade union, of the settlement team, of the family, but we also need the national communities, such as a national, publicly funded health or social security, and the major international communities, such as the United Nations and the EU. It's common, it's collective arrangements we need to solve our common problems, whether it's poverty or environmental problems. That Community idea is important to fight for, nationally and internationally, and fortunately we see that it also produces some results. Those who are now worried that I am not going to say a lot negative about the government, can take it easy: it's coming on Wednesday. I think we'll take the budget debate when the budget is available, then we'll see what the government actually proposes. But the little string exchange we had here instead reminds us that there are actually important differences. It's not that it's something that's free. If you choose to spend a lot of money for one purpose, you have less for another purpose. And I think we're going to see it on Wednesday, that if you're going to be close to fulfilling the promises made by the Government regarding taxes, it's going to be less for school, care for the elderly and health. Then we will discuss the figures, the order of magnitude, the elections and the priorities when the budget is available. I thought it was right for me to use my post today to focus on the major international challenges, simply because they are important to us, whether the Norwegian state budget looks like this or so.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e299	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e302	I actually think it was an affordable angle that the representative Stoltenberg took. But at the same time, I would like to point out that when he does not talk about the government alternative that he is now signalling in his posts, I suppose it also says something about what problems he is facing. The truth is that very much of what Stoltenberg here was involved in in terms of foreign policy and defence policy, in fact, his government ally is against SV. In fact, in Norwegian policy, SV has been largely opposed to everything the Workers' Party has been for. When Stoltenberg's into international organizations, I ask: what about NATO? What about EEA? What about the EU? It's the organs that are going to help us catch up on the terror and do exactly what Stoltenberg wants. But there is no SV! He has no support in that party!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e309	The Labour Party only enters into a government if that government has a basis to ensure that we conduct a responsible foreign and security policy and a responsible economic policy. That's an absolute assumption. And I'm absolutely sure that we're going to be able to negotiate such a basis, because I think it's such a great will now to get another government where we get to what's most important: a commitment to community solutions, a commitment to the fight against poverty and for more social equality, and not a policy where the big money goes to lower taxes – mostly to those who have the most from before. So if, against assumption, we can't agree with the other parties, we have another option, and it's a minority worker party rule. I believe that both of these options are significantly better than today's government. So it can just get better, whether it's going to be one or the other! [[Laughter]] But I have good faith that, together with the SV and the Center Party – and also the Christian People's Party, if they change their mind also after this election – we will arrive at a very good basis for a good government, where we make some compromises. The difference is that if we negotiate until agreement, we have a majority for that policy for four years. Then it is the country's policy, then we should not go to the Progress Party and ask for mercy, as you must.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e321	Jens Stoltenberg now repeated his favourite statement, his favorite bluff, about tax relief and “most for those who have the most from before”. He's probably going to keep imagining the Norwegian people, but he's wrong. I have been given an overview of what has been given by tax reliefs, and what the Workers' Party has voted for, and what they have voted against. It has been decided to NOK 21 386 000 000 in tax reliefs so far during this period, and the Labour Party has voted against SEK 6 990 million. NOK of this. It should therefore be tax reliefs, ‘most of those who have the most from before’, which the Workers’ Party has voted against. It's just that this is a long list, and there's only one point that's close to being able to be something to those who have a lot, and that's an amount of 1,500 million. kr, the removal of the double dividend tax. But it is not just Christen Sveaas and Stein Erik Hagen who receive dividends tax. It also does a lot of other people. So it's just a tiny little bit of the tax relief that's given, which is for those who have the most of it. I understand that Jens Stoltenberg has been inspired by the U.S. election campaign, namely negative ‘campaigning’: talking uglyly and wrongly about the opponents instead of correcting themselves and their own policies. I would like to ask Jens Stoltenberg: What tax reliefs have the Workers' Party voted against during this period that is part of his description that it has been ‘to those who have the most from before’?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e330	We have voted against the removal of the share tax for the wealthiest, and it is a considerable sum. What matters to these wealthy people is that they have received zero tax on dividends. Then we have voted against, in many rounds, reducing the property tax on housing for the same people – which has thus reduced the tax on large and very valuable assets. In addition, we have voted to close a number of tax holes that were not on Carl I. Hagen's list, because it's our proposals that are down here in the Storting. Overall, there are significant differences in relation to those who have the most. It would contribute more to the community. In return, we could have had more money, for example. the school leisure system, the elderly centres and other important welfare goods. The crucial thing now is that the Government has provided a big message where, in addition to the relief already granted, it promises 16 billion dollars if you take full account of the removal of the property tax. There they themselves have presented estimates showing that the 16 billion will go mainly to the richest people in Norway. It's double unsocial. The rich get a lot, and it gets less to well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e335	The emphasis placed by Stoltenberg on international cooperation is extremely important, and not least the role of the United Nations in this respect. But the UN is struggling, and not least the UN is struggling because the funding of the UN from many of the most important contributors is not as it should have been. However, if it is to be possible to create an international legal order in which the UN is the body that all countries must respect and which sits in the leadership when it comes to defending international law and international peace and stability, it means that we must strengthen the UN. The interesting thing is that many suggestions on how this can happen now also come from politicians who stand SV and also the Workers' Party far away. The last one that has now proposed something is Jacques Chirac, the bourgeois French President, who is thus calling for a number of international contributions to finance, among other things. UN. There may be international taxes on greenhouse gases, on air tickets, on ship routes, on arms sales and not least on capital movements. This is, in my view, a very sensible proposal, a proposal that points towards expanding international cooperation. I also expect that Stoltenberg will agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e343	It was a pleasure to hear such an inspiring and good line from such a capable and good politician as Øystein Djupedal! This can contribute to further cooperation, including: on ensuring the financing of the UN. There are many good suggestions that have been made on the table. I'm willing to discuss and be positive to everyone. The crucial thing is to get to one or more of them, so that we can secure the UN's more stable and sustainable revenues. Basically, it's no different than that we see that we now need to build international institutions to solve international tasks, and just as we when we built national institutions were concerned with securing income for the national communities, we now need to discuss how we can secure income for the global communities, first and foremost for the UN. Whether it is in the case of a levy on currency transactions or in the case of a levy on arms trade, or in the case of other types of sources of income, it is not essential. The crucial thing is to get income into the global community, so that the global community is better able to solve global common problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e350	I would like to pay tribute to the representative of Stoltenberg for devoting so much time to the international. It's fundamental to us as a welfare society that we also get an international distribution. At the same time, I would say that there is nothing that disappoints me as much as the representative Stoltenberg's way of discussing this government's policy, especially in relation to taxes. I am at any time involved in conducting a tax debate, but he must be more factual and serious than what the representative Stoltenberg puts up with. For those dwellings that have been taxed, not only are their kingdoms, but they are also their usual families. The enterprises that have received less tax on dividend dividends are also the small enterprises that will ensure future dividends. Will Stoltenberg guarantee that there will not be an increase in the tax on companies and thus a tax on jobs with any alternative government? And one more thing about national policy: Should cash-stamp host be exterminated immediately, as Trond Giske first said? Should it go over two years, as he has now said? What is the policy of all the families with children involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e357	I mean the exact same thing about taxes and tax levels that the Christian People's Party thought in 2001, that it was right to reduce taxes by 10-12 billion kroner, and we could finance it without going beyond welfare, because we used some more oil money. When we said that we could use something more oil money, we said that 10-12 billion kroner of that can be spent on financing taxes, without taking it from the expense side, because now we have some extra money. We are for that. And that meant, among other things, to remove the investment tax, which was a Plaza solution, and also to ensure that people who earned well NOK 280 000 would no longer pay the top tax. We were able to raise the peak tax entry point and increase the bottom deductions. That's what you meant. That's what we meant and what we mean. The difference is that you are now beginning to promise away many, many new billions to many new tax reliefs you were previously against. Now you're operating together with reliefs of between 30 and 40 billion kroner, if you add up what you've come in for, voted for and promised for the next period. Then you are quite exactly where the right was before the election in 2001, and the Christian People's Party strongly warned against it. You stopped doing that. But we still do, because we mean the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e362	Back to the international: just before the summer, the EU adopted its new constitution. The Constitution is an expression of the growing supranational nature of the Union and the growing resemblance of a country. People are increasingly protesting, not because they do not want international cooperation, but because they believe that supranationality has gone too far. For example, the Constitution states that the EU should have sole control of fisheries resources, regardless of the Member States. In some other areas, one must have a shared competence, but not as regards the control of fishing resources. The EU's leading spokespersons are very clear about becoming the new member, and they must deal with the EU's common policies, including, of course, the fisheries sector. Does the representative Stoltenberg believe that EU control of fisheries resources serves Norwegian interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e367	You should be careful to predict, but I will still pretend that Åslaug Haga and I will never agree on the EU case. We're probably going to disagree, because basically we have very different approaches to the issue of European cooperation. I do not believe that the EU administration of Norwegian fish is good for Norway. I think we should have had a better fisheries solution in 1994, and I believe that the effort to get a better fisheries solution, if we seek a third time, will be absolutely crucial. But at the same time, I think there is a big dilemma for us that very many important decisions relating to Norway – whether in terms of labour immigration, employer's tax or environmental policy, Kyoto agreements and quotas, or Turkey's membership of the EU or not – and which will be absolutely crucial for Norway, are taken without our participation in the decisions at all. I believe in the big and small communities. And I have a little bit of difficulty in realizing that one is going to be very much for international cooperation globally, but thus resists the international cooperation that exists in Europe. I want to fight for it and work for it, and then we get to deal with the disagreement when we get that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e376	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e379	The sitting government is a clear minority government. The Progress Party stated when we contributed to its post-election deployment in 2001, that we hoped for a good cooperation with the Government, and that we would have a special position as it was thanks to the Advance Party it was a government change. We agreed on the budget two years ago, and we finally voted – on cabinet issues – also for the first budget in this period. Then it happened in 2003 that the budgetary agreement we had entered into, we felt – I am aware that the Government believes something else – was not followed up during the revision of the budget, as it was actually a closer cooperation between the government parties and the Workers' Party at the revision in 2003. We therefore declared in the summer of 2003 that we no longer felt any particular responsibility for the Government, and that from then on we were a normal opposition party. The government now has only opposition parties to deal with in Stortinget. It has chosen it itself, as the Prime Minister has said many times that he will alternately cooperate with the Socialist Left Party, the Labour Party and the Progress Party. The Prime Minister said in his speech today that he wanted to cooperate with the opposition in Stortinget, also on the budget. I can say, on behalf of the Group of the Progressive Alliance, that we are prepared to enter into negotiations. We will seek to contribute to sound and prudent budgetary management in this difficult situation, by the government's choice of being a minority government without special friends in the Storting. We'll try to be that responsibility consciously. We are committed to serious negotiations. But we also expect to influence the budget and influence it as it should be. We are prepared to try to find a solution to the budget. Then I'll be allowed to take up the three proposals that are distributed in the representatives' seats, and that I want to go through. In recent times, there has been a continuing debate on asylum seekers who have received final rejection of their applications and who have then been sent out to Norwegian society, with some tragic events as a result. We in the Progress Party believe that it is not reasonable to release those who have been finally rejected, without food and drink money into the Norwegian community. Then there will be a risk of crime. Our proposal is as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to establish sufficient capacity with closed asylum recipients and to put in place a system whereby all asylum seekers who are finally refused their asylum application are transferred to such closed reception until they return to their home Member State.’;» We think it makes much more sense than letting them go free and commit crime, as some people do, and also possibly travel to other Schengen countries, which must be a breach of the agreement. We must now protect Norwegian society much better. Unemployment has stuck to an excessively high level in the light of the views of the Progress Party. We now believe that the Government cannot just allow a general economic policy to steer the development of the labour market. We want us to really go through how we can change decisions to help more people get into work, for example. through financial policy and where we have free capacity, for example. to create jobs for those who are currently unemployed. We are promoting the following proposals: ‘The budget asks the Government to promote its own notification of unemployment, as well as measures to reduce unemployment to less than 60,000 in 3 years’ time.’ We also think we should have a goal and a time horizon for this work. In such a notification, the Government will be able to find out: How many unemployed are there in the different counties, what are the categories of occupations, and what are the backgrounds? What can we put in targeted funds over a period of time, so that we get the unemployment rate below 60,000? That will be our goal. Then there's some disturbing news in the papers that Municipality-Norway is now getting less tax revenue than what they've been using in their budgets for, among other things. different welfare services for the population, such as care for the elderly. We therefore propose the following proposals: ‘The budget asks the Government to propose the necessary additional appropriations to the municipality of Norway in the 2004 budget to ensure the revenue base provided for in the State budget.’ We see that when you have created your budget in a municipality based on what you can expect from income, then it must be to trust. We cannot accept dramatic restrictions in the end month of this year because less income is earned than what was foreseen, which will directly go beyond some welfare services. It is also the case that if revenue to the country decreases — less VAT revenue, less motor vehicle tax revenue, less petrol tax revenue — there will never be a cut in the expenditure of the country. You just automatically use something more of the gigantic surplus that the government budget has. We then think that the municipalities should initially have the same opportunity not to tighten up at the end of the year. With regard to the 2004 budget, the situation has now arisen that the state is getting a lot more billion dollars than we had expected. Because of the increased oil prices, there might be 30 billion more in revenue for the state, and then some of it would have to be used to ensure that at least the municipalities don't get less than they expected. When you listen to the debate otherwise – and especially at Jens Stoltenberg, who says that if you spend money in one area, it becomes less for others – you should think that the Norwegian state had major financial problems. The Norwegian people actually read newspapers and know we're going with huge profits. Someone's talking about the pension in the future. It is then completely forgotten that the Norwegian pension system was built on the fact that it was the current tax revenue that would go to pay current pension expenditure. It was never meant that there should be any fund at all, with a return. No country in the world is as financially strong as Norway in covering future welfare tasks. It is not right that we really have bad advice. Then I must say that it is reassuring to witness the game of envy that Jens Stoltenberg has now begun. One thing is that it's wrong what he's telling about government policy, about tax policy, and wrong what he's telling about the policy of the Progress Party on the international stage – that is, he's spreading negative and false rumors about his competitors like he did in his post. But the use of envy seems to me to be even worse. When someone has become rich by creating businesses, by creating jobs, it must be produced in a way that is negative. I think a lot of people shop in the Rema and Rimi stores, who have received lower food prices because of competition. Many have created jobs, and some of those that have been better than others have become rich. I want to quote Anders Lange, who founded Anders Lange's party, the forerunner of the Progress Party: ‘If everyone wants to be rich, why is it so wrong that someone is?’ I think many people in Norwegian society have seen a positive view of people who build businesses – without having any inheritance at all. We've had companies that have been built up, we've had companies, like these chains, that have been built up, and many skilled entrepreneurs today create IT companies and jobs for others. And Jens Stoltenberg uses only envy, envy, envy. When I look at what the Workers' Party has voted against for tax reliefs in the last few years, there is really nothing but the dividend tax that has gone to those who have the most from before. There are many other than rich people who have dividends from their shares, including: also all the share funds. The Workers' Party has voted against otherwise, applies to housing taxes – Jens Stoltenberg also spoke there about the rich. The truth is that in the case of the house tax, the discount is increased, from NOK 51 250 to NOK 80000. The air passenger fee is 1,655 million. kr. It's not just rich people travelling by plane, like Jens Stoltenberg later to believe. This applies to the net pay scheme for seafarers, reimbursement of diesel tax for express buses, reduced shipping tax to ensure jobs there. Jens Stoltenberg said that he had been on the increase. Yes, he increased it from NOK 320,000 to NOK 325000. The Progress Party and the Government succeeded in getting it up to NOK 340 000 – that is, the bottom deduction so that fewer people would pay the top tax, as Jens Stoltenberg tries to imagine the voters that he has gone in for. I could ram up some other smaller things. The truth is that the Workers' Party builds on and plays on envy and tries to create the impression that it's just taxing a few kingdoms, there's a lot more money for the welfare of others. That's not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e432	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e435	It's in and of course okay for me that people get rich. What's not right for me is that the most prosperous people contribute less to the community. I believe it was wrong to remove the tax on dividends. I believe that those who have a share dividend can contribute more to the community. I also believe that it has been wrong to reduce the wealth tax for the wealthiest, and I think it is wrong to vote down the Workers' Party's proposal to close holes in the tax system that had made those who have the most contributed more to the community. I think it's wrong to promise NOK 16 billion in new tax reliefs, mostly to those who have the most from before. Otherwise, I notice that Hagen repeats the error with regard to the pension. No party has finally decided what they are in favour of retirement, but in terms of what the parties have said in the Pension Commission, the Progress Party representative has argued that everyone should become a minimum pensioner, and that is a very bad proposal. I think we're all wise now to wait with the pension debate until we see what the different parties decide on, and then deal with the suggestions and not try to assign parties positions they don't have. Otherwise, Hagen did not answer my criticism that because he wants to cut the contributions to the UN, cut the contributions to aid, it will contribute to more insecurity in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e444	Our member of the Pension Commission has made it clear that if there is between a so-called modernized system of social security and the existing system, we will have the existing system rather than going into favour of the Vice President of the Workers' Party Hill-Marta Solberg and former Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen, namely reduced pensions for those who have low pensions, and higher pensions for those who have high pensions. I just told the Workers' Party representatives of the Pension Commission. I did not say anything about what the Workers' Party has agreed to. It will be very exciting, and we will know that when the matter comes to our attention. With regard to the taxation of the so-called rich, if we have a tax level on capital higher than that of other countries, we risk moving capital to other countries and establishing jobs there. I do not understand that Jens Stoltenberg understands this. Does he really want to scare the capital out of the country so that we get even fewer jobs, as the Workers' Party has done before – and has demonstrated that they can – when they drove up unemployment to 180 000?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e451	Let me first of all say that I think it was nice that Carl I. Hagen gave such positive signals of having a constructive approach to the budget to be presented this week. At the same time, I would like to say that if the representative Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party want to influence, they will have the greatest influence by perhaps cooperating with the budget. It is natural that the partner making budgetary settlements with the Government also has an influence on the final result. But then I have a little question for Mr. Carl I. Hagen. He now criticises the Workers' Party and the Alliance on the left. But what is it that essentially separates the Progress Party and the Workers' Party? The truth is that the Advance Party almost all things in the Storting vote for additions for all good purposes. Doesn't the representative Carl I. Hagen see that it reduces the room to do exactly what he's asking for, namely reduce taxes and taxes? Does he not see a context in which he himself by his way of voting in Stortinget reduces the space that could have been there, and in this way is on a line that will reduce our opportunities to provide tax and tax relief and thus secure jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e459	The representative Oddvard Nilsen knows very well from our budgetary options that there is no party that cuts so much in the public expenditure as the Progress Party. But then it is true that we provide significant tax reliefs, among other things. to stimulate increased employment and to provide better advice in this country. And we're adding to the cost. We've had another point of balance in recent years. It's also because we can't see that it's necessary, sensible and sensible to have such a tight fiscal policy when we have about 100,000 unemployed. It has to make more sense, for example. to pay people money to build roads and drive with racial protection than to raise unemployment benefits. We know how many vacant workers there are. We have capacity, and we have money to invest in sensible things. We know that in health care there are waiting lists for patients. Then it is pointless to cut the economy of Norwegian hospitals so that they have to cancel doctors and nurses. We have a different view of this, and we don't have the same balance that others have. When we have a huge surplus, we're going to use something more of the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e464	Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party are President Bush’s best friends in Norway. Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party have never at any time approached any question mark or criticism in relation to the information used by the United States and the United Kingdom to legitimize the war against Iraq, and against which Republicans in the United States strongly protest. That is why I want to ask Carl I. Hagen, who at any time has given support to the Government when it has wanted to contribute Norwegian military personnel in Iraq, and who may have been in favour of additional Norwegian contributions, whether he agrees with Bush that it has now succeeded in combating terrorism more effectively than before, or whether it is actually like much of the rest of the world believes, that the fight against terrorism has been put back many times, that many of the terrorist communities have had blood on their teeth, that what is happening in Iraq is very dangerous, and that we are facing a situation where terrorists can be greatly strengthened in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e469	Like Denmark, Italy, England, Iceland and many others, the Progress Party believed that UN resolutions covered the attack on Saddam Hussein. There we disagree. But we're going to stick to that, because we've also been so thoroughly involved in those documents. We are pleased that Saddam Hussein has been removed. Now, at least, there is an opportunity for one significant country in the Middle East to become a free, democratic country. Retirement now, as SV will, will lead to Islamic fundamentalists from Syria and, in particular, from Iran, to win the insurrection against the current authorities that they are mainly behind. That is why it is important to make a choice in Iraq and to support their legitimate post-election government and support democratic forces, otherwise this will also be a Muslim fundamentalist state, such as Iran. I am very pleased that Jens Stoltenberg also spoke about combating the causes of international terrorism. Then you have to fight Muslim fundamentalists, who are behind most of the terror in the whole world. I understand that SV would rather lie flat for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e476	Carl I. Hagen put a constructive tone in his post, and he has also previously said that the Progress Party from now on will focus more on what brings together the non-socialist parties than what separates them. It's positive. But I am stunned when he actually refers to the cooperation on what he calls the socialist side, as a pattern for this cooperation. For my part, I cannot recommend that. A strategy aimed at sweeping important political disagreements under the carpet and putting it into wretched formulations will not be constructive. International terrorism has gained a scale and violence that shakes the world. This is why we in Norway also need to take our precautions, through preventive, control and judicial measures. At the same time, it is important to avoid stigmatizing and hurtful opinions that affect innocent people and that dehumanize large populations. My simple question to Carl I. Hagen is: Does Hagen agree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e483	To the last question, the answer is a clear yes. It is nice to hear that Steensnæs has brought me up to speak, and it has also made the National Government of the Advance Party in its decision, that the four non-socialist parties should be more interested in what gathers, and not just in what divides. When the three socialist parties are now more co-ordinated and will appear as a government alternative, at least the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Left and the Progressive Party should agree on a few simple truths, namely that we four have the common interest in preventing the other three from obtaining a majority in the 2005 elections. What is the basis of any non-socialist government is that the four in total have a majority. If you agree, what do you do with that? We've said, at least we have to start talking more about what's gathering than what's separating. We're not going to sweep under the carpet inequalities. We should be able to have substantive debates. But we're talking about maybe trying to be a little bit more careful with the negative characteristics, and maybe to some extent beyond the winter and spring trying to coordinate the four as a realistic total basis for a non-socialist government, if they were to get a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e490	The progress party is often occupied by the hospital sector, like the Centre Party. Now the situation is that a number of local hospitals around the country are threatened with closure or cut off. A lot of people around feel very insecure. The hospital reform has led to a totally unsustainable level of conflict between those in charge of that sector and those in charge. The solution of the Advance Party is to build a giant bureaucracy in Oslo, a hospital directorate that will only increase the distance between those who run hospitals and those who are being run. How does the representative Hagen feel that increasing bureaucracy and more government will give people greater influence on their hospital services?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e495	The model for the funding of hospitals should be well known. We want it to be a principle that the money follows the patient from the social security office – which is run from Oslo, but there are local social security offices across the whole country, even if the top management is in Oslo – to the hospital the patient chooses. Whether it's a private or a public hospital, it should be the same payment. Then there will be the choice of patients who control which hospitals continue. We have also made it clear that we do not accept any closure of any hospital, if the reason is to save money. The Progress Party has proposed the deletion of a good part of hospital debt. It would have strengthened their economy. It is our view that there is only automatic funding for hospitals, by paying them for what they do, which will be the solution in the long term. Then it doesn't matter how ownership is and how the systems are run. It will be the local situation that is crucial, because it is where patients live, and there they will be treated with our scheme. It's the only guarantee that they'll get the hospital they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e500	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e503	Today we start the long election campaign in SV. It's a fight that we don't, but the voters decide on September 12, 2005. The mobilization that starts is about the direction our society is going to take in the next four years, and the way forward. For us, this is a mobilisation of value. It will determine whether we leave something that is more valuable to those who come after us than what we took from our parents – not only in material terms, not only in terms of dollars and ears and how much we have in the oil fund, but also in terms of what attitudes and basic values should characterize the Norwegian society. That's what determines whether we're a good, inclusive society for everyone who lives here. In essence, this is about fighting for the community, for the fundamental solidarity that many feel is threatened in our society, and for the right-wing domination of the policy that has been in the last few years to be replaced by a solidarity option. We can write history in Norway in 2005. The voters can set up a new political course, and they can choose parties that give very clear notice before the elections: we want to cooperate and negotiate with other parties, so that we can establish a majority government in Norwegian policy that can set some overall political goals that we must fight to achieve over a whole four-year period, where one makes it clear to the voters and to each other who is responsible for the main course, and where one does not angle from side to side from six months to another. It will be historic if the Workers' Party participates for the first time in government together with other parties. It would be historic if SV for the first time took part in the government. And it'll be historic if the Center Party participates for the first time in a Center-Left-Registration together with the Workers' Party and SV. It's one and only the voters who decide. What we can do is say something about the main direction SV will fight for in such a majority and in such cooperation. So let me spend the rest of my time on it. Norway can define its role in international society more clearly than at present. We can do a bigger job in peace and peace mediation in the world than we do today. We're doing a little job, but we can clean it up as our big job as a small nation in the international community. Because we are often asked to do business because we are not members of the EU, because we can stand freer, and because we obviously have no major interest. If we cultivate such a task, we can use the focus Norway gets when we once a year hand out the Nobel Peace Prize. In Norway, we can gather environments from all over the world that have competence in peace mediation. We can cultivate our own assistance and our own international efforts in this regard – not only assisting in ongoing conflicts, but also in an international context, by perpetuating conflict prevention. Each crown spent on military efforts when the war is a fact is much better spent on prevention work in relation to wars and crises. Such a role cannot be reconciled with putting the United States in thick and thin and one by one. Norway should have a completely different view of the war against Iraq. We should refrain from participating in the military in Iraq. That is the position SV will stand for further in the future as well. It is no longer that we are safer the closer we are to the United States, as the logic was too many during the cold war. Now it could be the opposite. And what's a fact is that the fight against terrorism has been put back many times after the US war on Iraq. We can be the country that is assisting and that always in an international context is calling for us to follow the UN track, and for us to follow what will prevent war and crisis. Let me take an example, a forgotten war. In northern Uganda, an 18-year-old war has taken place that is the worst attack on children and youth in our time. It's a guerrilla without political goals and meaning that kidnaps children from the nearby villages, and there are tens of thousands of kids that are kidnapped so far. They are held as sex slaves or now as child soldiers – and they are coming home again. If we put ourselves in line with the rehabilitation and what is needed to bring them back to their communities, we can prevent new wars and crises for the future. It's a perspective and a war and a crisis forgotten by the international community. CNN is not there, but it is extremely important for the future. We can sit down another heading. We can set ourselves as a goal and a headline that Norway is going to be an environmental nation. Jens Stoltenberg pointed out that there are new paces in combating climate change when Russia ratifyes the Kyoto Agreement. That gives some new possibilities. That means we have to sweep for ourselves in relation to our own emissions, but it also means that we can put in place an allowance system that does some of the things that have been a little more dreamy compared to the purchase and sale of allowances, really. But the opportunity we have to invest in new renewable energy, bet on a future energy regime that doesn't pollute anymore, but that pollutes less, we can make it a brand for Norway. Then we can connect the same perspective on fish, on agriculture, on tourism. Think how unique Norway is! For very many people in the world, it's not something called pristine nature. Think of what we have that others want to experience. Think about how we can make it a headline on what we can bet on – creating jobs that create experiences that are compatible with sustainable development in the future. If you've gone a few hours on a glacier, and you think about how far away there are too many other people, you understand what we have of values, especially when some of the questions Norway gets are: Is it so that all the paths in Norway are asphalted? This is unique, and we forget to think about how unique we are, which has so much untouched nature. We can set ourselves the goal that what will shape Norwegian working life and Norwegian social life in the future is more common. Some of the most important choices we face in the future about working life are about the attitude of the So-called Labour Law Committee – difficult words to say. It's about who's really going to decide how much overtime you're going to work? Are employees’ rights to determine this need to be weakened and employers strengthened? Who should determine in relation to temporary employment? We are faced with a possible shift of power in Norwegian working life, where the interests of the Right are very clear on the one hand, and our left side interests are clear on the other. This battle is going to be at the end of this pouring period. It must be after a choice where the voters have the opportunity to have their say. The same thing applies to the pension. It is a majority proposal from the Pension Commission that means that very many low-paid women have a lower pension scheme than they have today. Because SV is something we want to fight for not to happen. That battle is also going to be in the next period. And then the battle of the common good is going to happen. We have an opportunity to choose a direction. What's more urgent now? And let me not participate in the discussion about who gave what tax reliefs last year and the year before there. But what are we going to do in the next four years? Should we, as this government has promised, give first another 12 billion kroner in income tax, then another 4 billion dollars in property tax? Or are they a total of NOK 16 billion, which is needed around the country's classroom, if we're going to be able to get good care for the elderly, if we're going to get a child protection that comes when children need it, is needed if we're going to get treatment for drug users who don't get the help they need today, or need children who are struggling with mental problems and who don't experience a welfare society that stands up for them? We have as many problems as at least for SV haste more than these 16 billion in tax bills. And now I look hard at Lilletun down in the hall. For I believe it is more urgent for him and many others who have their hearts in the Christian People's Party. It's about which direction we're going to choose for the future. I say this to Lilletun, because of course he is cordially welcome to be on such a priority. But first of all, it is about making sure that we have a government in the next major period where the Right and Right values and the main priorities of the Right are not to characterise four new years in Norway. President, it looks as if my time is – not over, but towards this time!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e538	The President appreciates the presence of the speakers. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e544	The Labour Party and SV have a broad consensus on the need for a much more equitable distribution. To distribute more, we also have to create more. That's why we need both to create more and to distribute better. Most agree that the EEA Agreement is essential in order to ensure a stable framework for trade policy in industry. Does Kristin Halvorsen agree with the need for such stability and equivalent framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e551	SV will not do anything that places Norwegian jobs in a ‘gamblende’ position, but we see great weaknesses in the EEA Agreement. I think the Jamm Arbeiderpartiet and Jens Stoltenberg also do that, especially when you can have fun with their Swedish party friends to the great humorous heights by making fun of the EEA Agreement. We know that it has become a more static agreement than many predicted. We know that it has clear weaknesses when we cannot continue with the system of employer's fees, as we thought we could. There is a need for a different relationship with the EU, but we are not going to imagine that we are in point 1: producing more EU-related people, or point 2: putting Norwegian business to such a level of uncertainty that you do not know what the conditions are. We're going to work for another kind of practice of today's EEA agreement or find alternatives to today's EEA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e556	What we are now witnessing is a combination of open government negotiations and alternate ultimatums to each other. We heard Jens Stoltenberg say a clearly ultimatum to Kristin Halvorsen from this pulpit in a reply to Oddvard Nilsen. Mr Stoltenberg called for ultimatum both in terms of foreign policy and economic policy. The Labour Party will not hear of SV's no to NATO, no to the EEA and no to the WTO. Jens Stoltenberg will not hear about SV's wish for a new monetary policy or fiscal policy. And the Central Party has clearly put an ultimatum in the past in terms of environmental policy, namely that they will not have more protection, and they will have a stronger defence of ownership. My question is, what is left to SV? Or to turn it around: what will it be left of if the party fails its historical heritage both in terms of foreign policy, economic policy and environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e566	To Jan Tore Sanner I want to say, "Thank you, we're fine. But we appreciate all the care we can get. Because it is clear that we get into demanding positions and get demanding tasks. And that's what we're ready for. We are so ready to fight for the community that we have mobilised up to now, and we are ready to implement much of the policy that we stand for ourselves, and not just be the idea bank for others. So Jan Tore Sanner says that Jens Stoltenberg has set an ultimatum in relation to operating with sound foreign policy. The whole point of the SV is that we need a more sound foreign policy. Half my post was just about what job we can do in the international community that is more responsible than the foreign policy of today's government. And what's big about the SV's position in Norwegian opinion in recent years is that we've been talking on behalf of the populace in foreign policy – not right, at least not until the government came to sense and didn't support the war against Iraq. [[The President clubs]] It's new times for SV, it, and it's a big responsibility for us to manage it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e573	It evened out!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e576	Kristin Halvorsen spent a good deal of time on foreign policy and Iraq, and said all that was done wrong, and she told me what she was against. It would have been interesting if Kristin Halvorsen in today's situation could say what she thinks should be done now – not just the story, because we've been through it many times before. Is it her wish that the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia and other countries immediately withdraw from Iraq? Is it her view that it is entirely right about Iran and Syria and other sheep to a fundamentalist regime in Iraq? Or does SV share our view and most people's view that it would be beneficial and sensible if Iraq became a democratic free country? Jens Stoltenberg spoke warmly – I noticed – about Turkey, and I agree with everything he said there. Does Kristin Halvorsen want the same thing to happen in Iraq, that there too could be a regime trying to combine the country as an Islamic country with the more Western democracy with respect for human rights? And what's her recipe for getting in that direction as the situation is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e581	That recipe is actually pretty hard to see. We have a decision in the Security Council, 1546, which sets a trail that goes from the United States as occupying power in Iraq to what Carl I. Hagen describes as, what to say, a free, democratic Iraq. The question is whether the way he sees you going brings you there. For the same resolution that the rest of the world has managed to agree on, is not exactly the one that has great legitimacy on the ground in Iraq. In fact, the behaviour that the United States has shown in Iraq is part of the problem of finding a solution, and it's quite demanding. For the United States, as a former occupying power, there is also an obligation not only to ‘bomb and go’. When you have raised a country as much as the United States has done in relation to Iraq, and made sure that so many extremist groups are strengthened that were not there before, you also have a responsibility for the security that exists. But there are a lot of people who are now questioning whether the recipe they have made for the transition to a peaceful Iraq is possible to do as it stands, and there are a lot of questions that you have to ask yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e586	SV and Kristin Halvorsen have spoken warmly in their speech about a solidarity option after the big shot, a new policy course, and she points to important challenges internationally and in an environmental perspective that the Christian People's Party can also agree with very much. But we have experienced for three years that SV has challenged the Christian People's Party, criticised the Christian People's Party for participating in tax relief. There has been a lot of talk about this, until today, when Kristin Halvorsen says that she will not participate in a debate on the tax havens, not on what has been decided on the current period. We have been told a lot in these years about what SV thinks about the tax havens. Now the question is, what will SV do with the tax credits given in the current period? Does that mean that SV will now show the consequences of his criticism of us in a new government option? Will they reverse the tax havens that are now given and for which they have criticized us so much? Is that why Kristin Halvorsen looks so heavy and hard on Jon Lilletun? Or does she just want to talk about the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e591	First, I will allow myself to say the following: what we have seen of promises of tax relief from this government, when one comes out with $10 billion in deficit, clearly shows that the promises given from the Right, which the Christian People's Party subsequently negotiated, were completely, absolutely, irresponsible. So it's just not that this government has something special to teach us about tax promises, anyway. So to the question of what's going to happen next. No, SV has opposed many of the tax reliefs that have been granted. But there's something about tax relief that's given, it's much harder to reintroduce taxes than to take the blows that stand when they stand. The Christian People's Party knows that too. Therefore, there is more irreversible decision one makes in the Storting, and in which the Christian People's Party has participated. What the fight's about for us now is what's happening in the future. The Christian People's Party has committed itself to only NOK 12 billion in additional taxes on income tax, plus DKK 4 billion on property taxes. It's 16 billion kroner – much better used for common goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e598	The Central Party sees that our country needs a far more offensive district policy than the government is running. In the view of the Centre Party, agricultural policy will continue to be an important tool for the development of strong and living communities. The cultural landscape disappears, we see, as a result of the agricultural policy that is being pursued, the number of farmers is rapidly reduced, and the pressure on the farmer to operate more economically is great. Growing is a serious problem in our country, and it happens incredibly quickly. In what way can the Central Party in the years ahead count on the Socialist Left as an ally in the fight for offensive district policy and a forward-looking and strong agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e603	I think many of our future opportunities are right here. But it's going to be demanding, because we have some WTO negotiations that make us probably have to think differently about how to support Norwegian agriculture in the future, or make sure that Norwegian agriculture still exists and does a job on behalf of the community in the future. I think we need to think a lot more about quality and niche production than what we've done now. But as I see this, this is part of the headline I was in on my main post, which is about Norway as an environmental nation. Because we have unique opportunities to produce food, on happy animals, so that people know that what they get is produced well, with animal welfare, which more and more people are becoming more and more concerned about, and we have some opportunities here to profile Norway as a unique nation on environmental food. But it requires an offensive attitude from the rest of society, and it requires a willingness to pay for it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e609	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e612	In many ways, a new policy course is needed for Norway — a policy course that can create a level playing field throughout the country and that has faith in developments throughout Norway. The centre party wants to be a guarantor to create a course that in turn creates opportunities for the districts of this country. We believe it is necessary to create new optimism and value creation along the coast and in Norwegian rural communities. We need to exploit the knowledge and capital of this society to develop a new and targeted industrial policy. At the same time, it is the best district policy we can pursue, for values are created in the districts. Our three main industries, offshore, fisheries and maritime sectors, are all located along the coast, and the people of the coast deserve to see these values again, also as the development of their own local communities. In fact, with the type of rural and industrial policy objectives, it is not useful to have a secondary ambition for technological infrastructure in the form of broadband, for transport and for the provision of services in the districts. Then it doesn't help to say that what happens, it happens, in relation to the development of business in the districts. We see a test of the will for nutrition development right these days. The issue of whether gas ferries are to be built in Norway or Poland. It has to be decided soon. It's 500 jobs, and it's 1.2 billion kroner. And what does the Government do to ensure that this technology is developed in Norway? So far, it has done nothing but flaunt the responsibility between the ministries. The Ministry of Transport says that Norwegian tenderers must seek R & D funds. The problem is that there is no money left on the R & D budgets. Meanwhile, we have a new Minister of Economic Affairs who stands as a paper doll in the middle and knocks out with his hands. A better illustration of a passive industrial policy shall be sought for a long time. The Central Party wants a government and a Minister of Industry to fight for the industry. It is both possible and necessary to pursue an industrial policy based on its own possibilities and advantages. It has to happen in a completely different way from today. Capital, development and public instruments must then be used for the best interests of business. The Central Party also wants a new political course for the district industries. The district industries are a resource for this country, not a clip around the foot, which we can sometimes get the impression of. Every year, traveling life actually makes billions of dollars because we have a rural and cultural landscape that is worth showing. The resource it represents for Norway needs to be exploited better than today, and it needs to be met with respect. This is why agricultural innovation is important. Therefore, this innovation work needs to be strengthened and coordinated. Today, many of the instruments are managed in a bit, but they need to be seen in the context, and there needs to be a wide range of efforts in the field of industrial development, such as agriculture. at the intersection of traditional agriculture, further processing of local food, culture and experience. The same was true of Kristin Halvorsen under the heading «Environmental Nation Norway». One can also look at it under the heading ‘Regional and Cultural Nation Norway’ for such work will also contribute to Norway’s failure to grow again. We cannot risk Norway becoming a tourist nation just for peaches. In fact, the cultural landscape must be kept open, and nature must be managed and managed. It will benefit Norway as a tourist nation, and it will benefit from new business development based on agriculture, culture and tradition. So the center party of the opinion is that there is a little bit more healthy peasantry in the protection policy. We believe that new alliances are needed for the rational use and conservation of landscapes, not just unilateral protection. In the Swedish debate, one actually talks today about a new type of protection. The title of that debate is ‘departed from the reserves — in with sensible care’, but so far we have not yet entered the debate in Norway. The center party believes that a protective break is needed now. If one is to avoid excessive conflicts between local communities and the protection bureaucracy, a time-out must be taken. Then one uses forces to discuss how protection is to be exercised, what effect it has on the settlement in an area, how one can be more flexible in the protection areas, so that business can be carried out, and how one can facilitate new business. The centre party wants a new political course in welfare policy – a course in which we will not see private consumption sinking to the fore, while public savings are being made. It's basically about decent care for the elderly, it's about a free school for everyone, and then no one comes to mind that the municipalities have to give the economy they need to give people the well-being they need. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, It's not solved by the government either. Well-being is practiced and solved locally, and it is the locals that must also be given the opportunity to give the necessary well-being to those who are the youngest of us, and to those who are the oldest of us. The government seems to choose to deal with the municipalities in two ways. Either it is said that the municipalities are responsible for what they have promised, but they do not intend to comply. In addition, I just saw that Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss said that there are some municipalities that make so many mistakes that it doesn't matter if you take from them a billion or two – that's the whole sector. With reference to the town hall in Tromsø, the Minister of Finance thought it was perfectly right that the municipal sector should receive one or two billion less in income. Both of these procedures are quite disrespectful. And they have it in common that they don't hit the municipalities, they hit the elderly people who need help in the nursing homes, they hit the operation of the care for the elderly, and they hit the primary schools and kindergartens directly. So if the government, with its play-outs in relation to the municipal sector and its constant demands that the municipalities take greater responsibility here, thinks it's hitting municipal bureaucracy and agencies with it, then it's wrong. It hits just those groups that are going to be on everyone's lips in the next election campaign. A number war may be a little profitable, even though I see that the Prime Minister is actually attacking his previous government when he talks about the municipal structure where the Senter Party was part of it. There's a lot one could say about it, but what people see, from which the government can't run away, is that there's fewer teachers in the schools, there's less money to operate the hospitals, even though there's more loneliness, and there's more elderly people who feel they're not getting a worthwhile offer in the last few years of their life. The claim of the centre party is that it is unworthy for the government of Europe's richest country to waive responsibility for welfare services by giving municipalities as poor economic conditions as they are today. The map drawn by the Government and the terrain where local politicians are striving. Regardless of any debate on the structure and size of municipalities, there needs to be a completely different understanding between the state and local communities about how to finance well-being and how to exercise responsibility in the years to come. The centre party wants to contribute to it. The centre party will fight for local well-being. We don't want to help people submit to the belief that welfare tasks can be solved by promises from here, from this room, while at the same time depriving ourselves of responsibility for the real economic structure of the municipalities. The Central Party believes that there is a need for a more powerful voice that can talk about the issues of districts, district industries, industry and local welfare. And the Center Party is that voice. We also need to be stronger on behalf of these matters. This is our goal both in relation to the work of the Storting, in relation to the choice of the harvest and in relation to possible future government cooperation. As I have understood it, it seems that the Right has intended to use this debate to make a kind of impression that a maritime party in today's debate would not be allowed to mark its own position, because then it is a problem in relation to future cooperation. I agree with Kristin Halvorsen that it will be demanding – both negotiations on possible cooperation and cooperation, if possible. But it has always been. It was then demanding enough for the sitting government as well. I seem to remember that there was a break in the negotiations between the Right and Christian People's Party, and that it was Carl I. Hagen who had to whip the parties back to the negotiating table. So it's been demanding before with negotiations between a maritime party about a political course, and it's going to be demanding even after the next election, if the voters give the parties an opportunity to do so. The centre party does not want first and foremost cooperation for its own sake. We want a new political course. If the voters give us strength in the autumn elections, we will negotiate a government cooperation to ensure that kind of new policy course both for value creation and for development in Norwegian districts and Norwegian communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e646	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e649	The centre party is traditionally known for being close to the agricultural population. We know that Norwegian agriculture is facing major challenges in the time to come. The most important keyword is the WTO agreement and its consequences, and we are already seeing the challenges become formidable. There are two fundamentally different ways of attacking those challenges. One way could be to say that yes, this is going to be terribly difficult, this is going to be very demanding. In many ways, we need to create a new agricultural policy, but we are going to meet that challenge, and we are going to participate fully in the work. The second principle approach is to say that the WTO agreement is bad, so we are against, and we cannot take responsibility for decisions in the wake of such an agreement. What kind of principled approach will the Centre Party choose in its work?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e660	It is true that the Central Party is close to the districts and communities. Agriculture policy will then also be important because it is glued to very many rural communities and communities around this country. We do not hide the fact that we believe that the WTO agreement is a demanding task, linked not primarily to the individual agricultural operator, but to the role of agriculture in rural policy, linked to the fact that agriculture is so important to the whole of the rural policy around Norway, and related to the fact that if one looks at it simply, it is not agriculture in central strata that will be hit hardest by the WTO agreement. But it is precisely the agriculture we are determined to be most concerned about, the district-oriented agriculture in the West and in Northern Norway, which faces the toughest challenges. We have to choose a constructive approach to the WTO Agreement, and we see that one from the Government here says that there must be some opportunities. Yes, we're going to help the government look for those opportunities and also expect the government to seize those opportunities. But we don't want to underestimate how demanding that process actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e669	A new course, a new one for industrial policy and agriculture, talked about Marit Arnstad. Then it's strange to try to think of a reasoning into a future socialist government. For how in the world does the Central Party believe that a future socialist government will take care of what is most important for the districts, namely to exploit the resources that are there, based on the ownership of the local property owners? So the centre picks a rough course towards an alternative where you want to reduce the ability of landowners to count out hunting and fishing, where you want to restrict all-man rights, and where you want a more liberal predator policy. Even when the Center Party is talking about a break in protection, do I really have to ask, does the Center Party think you're going to have a break in the Socialist Left Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e676	It is absolutely right that, in any cooperation and in any debate on possible cooperation, the Centre Party will fight for interests linked to both private property rights, protection policies, predatory policies, rural policies and agricultural policies. So the question is, is it going to be easy? I don't think it'll be easy. But is it that good today, then? Today, in fact, it is Right, along with SV, that contributes to a protection policy that is rigid, rigid and unreasonable. It's actually easier, I think, to talk to the Workers' Party, because there will be many in the Workers' Party who share the views of the Center Party that this is rigid and unreasonable. With regard to today’s predatory policy, the Centre Party is critical of it, but it is not the Workers’ Party and the SV who have necessarily submitted the predatory policy. It is the right of the government that has put forward the predatory policy. So what's the right concern about? We're going to fight for a different policy than the Right today is trying to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e683	Let me first congratulate the representative Arnstad on her appointment as the most popular representative of the North and South Trondelags. I hope that this does not lead to her reconsidering her no to renown. My line goes in the direction of the previous line. The Labour Party and SV have spoken earlier today about the solidarity option in relation to next year’s cooperation management. I'll call it more of a contrast rule, based on today's situation. But now I hear that the Center Party is going to choose a new course, the course into the socialist sequences. In doing so, they will side with their former primary tasks in relation to landowners, in relation to protection, in relation to the use of gas and in relation to transport and enter the booth of the SV and the Workers' Party in these areas. Is it then right to conclude that the Central Party has made a final settlement with the civil side, and is now moving its entire organisation and policy to the left?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e692	The centre party is a non-socialist party and will be a non-socialist party, no matter which labels I notice that the Right Party and the Advance Party are today trying to give the different parties. We say that we want a new course in welfare policy, in business policy and in district policy. I think we have a lot to discuss with the Workers' Party and SV in those areas. Then it is clear that there are areas where the different parties disagree – that should be lacking. There are three seagoing parties who will cooperate, if necessary, if they are able to negotiate a new platform and a new course. I will not deny that the issue of ownership, protection policy and predatory policy is important to the Centre Party. But as I also said in my previous reply, we are not exactly very satisfied with and reassured by the line on which the Right has laid down, along with the SV, to get a rigid protection policy and to have a predatory policy that is not very good for the districts. And I think that after all, also Sandberg and the Progress Party share that concern with us about the Right Role in those matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e699	Marit Arnstad was Minister of Oil and Energy in the Central Government. One of the most important things she worked with was to put down the foot of a gaseous power plant. There she made a good effort, and as far as I understand, it has also been central to that position later on. Now both Marit Arnstad and I come from a state called the North Tronde Team, which is the flagship of the Center Party. And they're also in county government. What the county government is tones the highest, is just building a gas power plant with today's technology. Marit Arnstad was concerned that the Center Party was the party of healthy peasantry. My question to Marit Arnstad is therefore: is there the healthy peasantry in the North-Trøndelag that applies in this matter, or is it the healthy peasantry that you express centrally? And is Marit Arnstad comfortable with the situation that the same party in the North Trøndelag so strongly wants to build a polluting gas power plant?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e706	There have been long divided opinions in the Central Party on these issues. There is no secret, and it has not appeared in the last half of the year that the Nord-Trøndelag centre section could envisage an expansion of gas power plants in the Forest, while the party centrally will not expand gas power plants without removing the CO2 emissions. It's going to be a little square to make it look like we don't want to use the gas in gas plants as well. I can agree with that if you just remove the CO2 emissions. But as I said, there's been a long time of different opinions in the Center Party about this. I accept that. I don't feel uncomfortable that there are different opinions in a party. I think it can often be healthy, and I also think that in our further programme debate we are going to have a broad discussion on these issues. The party in Norway that does not feel comfortable having a wide-ranging debate on these issues will find it difficult, because there are shared opinions in almost all parties – the Christian People’s Party, the Workers’ Party, the Right and the Centre. And we have to accept that this kind of question intersects in the middle of almost every batch, maybe with the exception of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e718	Whatever the district or the big city, the story of terror and organized crime tells us that Norway has to make a choice between the police state or the value state. We choose the value state in front of the police state, but we probably have to consider doing as a neighbouring country in the east, Sweden, and transferring large amounts from the Defense to the justice sector to keep up with the increasing challenges for the police in peacetime. Crime flourishes at all levels because people make their own laws without regard to community. This is how the justice sector becomes an insatiable failure. The Norwegian people have to gather to reach common values for how we're going to live together. Still, it must be allowed to say that something is right and something else is wrong, something is true and something else lies. The Christian People’s Party will maintain Christian values as a good guide for countries and peoples. In what areas will the Centre Party be a supporter in this valuation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e725	There were several items that were included in this line. Let me get to grips with one thing: the transfer of large resources from the defence sector to the justice sector. I don't know if it's a topical proposal, but I'll be very surprised if the Christian People's Party would make a proposal to transfer money from a defence that's already under financial pressure to the justice sector. I believe, on the contrary, that Norway needs to strengthen its defence in the years to come, not least in view of the lifting of sovereignty over the northern regions and the responsibility we have there. In terms of value issues, there is a lot in common among the centres. There's a lot in common that I think we've both built on and that we're going to be able to build on in the years to come. It's also one of the elements I think it's important for the Center Party to get into a possible centre-left collaboration, focus on some of the important values that the Centre stands for. In that work, I will not hide that I think it would be better if we had a Christian People's Party with us in the negotiations related to a centre-left cooperation than to have them against us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e732	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e735	Large parts of the Norwegian population are doing well economically. And ewe-girl is the level of conflict in our society reasonably low. But the government is running a policy that is slow, but certainly weakens the well-being and security where we live. Through national ownership of natural resources and key businesses, we have made sure that the economic benefit has benefited the Norwegian people. However, the Government is increasingly helping to weaken national ownership and the control of natural resources is failing. In addition, immigration policies are being pursued which increasingly set weak groups against each other in a merciless and conflict-making competition for work and well-being. Many claim that the globalisation and degradation of the nation state is a kind of modern law of nature that we cannot do anything about. But we in the Coastal Party will show that there are alternatives to a passive abandonment of national welfare. We will urge a concrete and offensive fight to protect the national ownership we still have and to regain the control of the natural resources and population development that the Government, in cooperation with the Workers' Party and the Progress Party, has completed in important areas. In a review of key resources in Norway, fish are the most important. Through international maritime law negotiations, coastal states gained control of fishing in a 200-mile economic zone. The fish is one of our biggest exports. But less and less of this fish is landed locally, and increasingly it is sold to enterprises abroad. What can we do to prevent this? Of course, we can use the concession law, but there's no solution. However, what is strange is that vulnerable species should be allowed into Norwegian fauna. I think in the first row about the royal crab, but I also think about the wolf. They're both species that's out. The wolf was eradicated in Norway and Sweden – it's out! We must protect the coastal fleet and ensure a regional distribution of fishing quotas. We need to have an opportunity through a concession law to prevent the flagging out of the main companies. Unfortunately, within the EEA we have little opportunities to prevent such flagging, but at least we have the opportunity to buy back companies that have been sold abroad. My suggestion is that we develop a state enterprise – yes, let's call it Statfisk. This company should be provided with funds to allow it to lie in the sieving and to wait for the possibility to buy back out-of-flag companies when there is a bad day on the stock exchange. You can use oil money here, but it doesn't matter to the Norwegian economy. We don't have to spend one penny in Norway, and it doesn't have to mean anything for the Norwegian economy. The government is slowly but surely adding up to a flagging out and foreign management of Norwegian natural resources such as water, minerals, forests, soil, oil, etc. This is done through initiatives undertaken by the Government in the form of EEA directives. In addition, district policy is managed by the EEA. This is what the Coastal Party believes is reprehensible, and more and more people in the districts agree with us. The right-hand side says it has to be new. If the new thoughts are the sale of natural resources, they've been thought of before. The people who created the Constitution were aware of it, and that's why the Constitution was created like this. That is why it is so important to have the Constitution changed, so that it is easier to sell natural resources – and then we think new thoughts. No, the thoughts are thought before. The Coastal Party is the only party on the Stortinget that will release Norway from the economic and district policy coercion that the EEA represents. The centre party and SV are willing to govern with the Workers' Party on the basis of the EEA Agreement. The coastal party wants Norway to terminate the EEA Agreement and will not be part of a government based on this agreement. Another important aspect of the EEA Agreement is the provision for a common labour market. This means that we have free labour immigration from the EU after a few years of transition. The coastal party is the only party on Stortinget that will actively fight against such a development. The Progress Party previously gave the impression of having a restrictive immigration policy, but the fact is that the party is in favour of free labour immigration from the EU, which in a few years is likely to have Turkey with it. Soon, in the EEA, we are going to deal with a new EU service directive which could probably lead to extensive social dumping on the Norwegian labour market. The Coastal Party will propose that the Government veto this. I don't understand LO who can go in for something like this. It goes beyond the LO workplaces. We get cheap labour from the east. Companies can hire contractors and subcontractors and have cheap labour – and this is what LO agrees! The workers in Norway should wake up. One can hire cheap labour for between 30 and 40 kroner per hour, which will compete with labour for 120 and 130 kroner per hour. I don't understand. Immigration policy is also influenced by Norway's participation in Schengen. There is no possibility for Norwegian authorities to establish a necessary passport check at the EU border in order to obtain an overview of who is crossing the Norwegian border at any time. Here is the Progress Party together with all the other parties on the Stortinget, except the Coastal Party. We want the Schengen declaration and the introduction of border control against the EU. Only such a check could enable the return of false asylum seekers to a safe country. They can't need protection when they eat up their travel papers and throw their passports in garbage to get them out. Then the police don't know where they're going and where they belong. It may not be necessary to protect such people. They cannot come to Norway as asylum seekers – they are bandits! Are we going to be a world hospital and accept people from all over to come to Norway as a refuge? We have to wake up! We can't do this, because we're just 4 million people in Norway. In Germany, for example: is 4 million unemployed, and it is only in one EU country. In Norway, there are 4.5 million inhabitants. There are as many unemployed people in one EU country as there are residents in this country. Do you understand? It'll only affect us if we join. Only such control could prevent the trafficking in human beings of prostitutes coming to Norway. Only a border check and a passport check can allow terrorists to be stopped at the border. We're going to use the upcoming election campaign to tell the people this, because it's no use when the Progress Party stands here and says it alone and does something else when we legislate this. In the forthcoming budget, the Coastal Party will look in particular at the local economy, housing tax and defence appropriations. A good municipal economy is a prerequisite for a good welfare offer and a good local offer. It is therefore crucial that the municipalities have sufficient resources to perform their tasks. The right-wing leader, Erna Solberg, is putting increasing pressure on Norwegian municipalities. Small municipalities will be merged, the municipal budgets will be streamlined, and you will get more out of each krona. But the fact is that this policy forces a property tax that Right says they are against. This is a double political game. The Coastal Party will liquidate both property taxes, property taxes and property taxes in order to ensure a safe daily life for each family. Strong private and state enterprises will be able to participate in and expand research in Norway. But public research also needs to be strengthened in order to improve innovation in business. It is unheard that fisheries research must be coordinated with agricultural research. The two fields must be on their own. The Animal Protection Act applicable to animals is also applicable to fish. Animals breathe with lungs and use air as medium. The fish breathes with gills and uses water as a medium. You can't apply a law to a completely different being. You have to have two different laws. It's not possible to apply the Animal Protection Act to fish – it's obvious, and I can't believe people can do that. The Coastal Party will have a better rescue service at sea. And I guess I'm the only one on Stortinget who's been exposed to being picked up by rescue helicopters. I know it's necessary. It's no use if you have hundreds of helicopters that turn at 500 nautical miles, when you're 700 nautical miles out in the ocean. Then there's one helicopter enough, then there's no use with one hundred helicopters. The best thing to do is to get those helicopters that have a lot of reach, high speed and high capacity. These are the rules in Europe. We're going 30 years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e770	The representative Bastisen started his post by saying that people are doing pretty well in this country, but the rest of the post to the representative Bastesen did not exactly have the mark of it. I sat and almost saw me here in the end that the black door was at full speed along the Norwegian coast. And I'm not sure if most people along the coast recognize themselves in that description. But when the representative of Bastesen also states that we need to free the coast of a coercive road – the coercive route of the EEA Agreement – then my question to the representative of Bastesen must be: When we have hundreds of thousands of employees in companies along the Norwegian coast that have the EEA Agreement as their only safety net, why will the Coastal Party conclude this agreement, which is a guarantee that Coastal Norway will be allowed to sell goods and services to its nearest and best paid market? It's the purest settlement order the Coastal Party gives to Coast Norway, and it's absolutely impossible for me to grasp.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e777	I thank you for the line. We will terminate the EEA Agreement. I don't think the representative Kristiansen is aware of that, but the trade agreements are still there, they haven't gone, as people think. But when we got the EEA Agreement, the trade agreements were iced up. So we can very well conclude the EEA Agreement and still deal with the trade agreements. I want to go a little further: the representative Kristiansen uses to say that we have to think new. Yes, if new thoughts are going to sell natural resources, people have thought those thoughts before. They're not very new.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e786	At least the representative of Bastesen shall have: he held a dedicated post. He's probably been motivated by recent developments in Troms. But with regard to the content – especially everything we have to notify ourselves of – all the cooperation we are involved in, how bad it is, how broken it is that we have the Schengen Agreement, and the EEA Agreement is a crisis for Norway that we still have, so we have to give it up – the representative Bastesen believes that we can only accede to the previous trade agreements. I have no faith in that, because then we will have to start renegotiating part of the content of these trade agreements. With the huge population behind Norway in relation to the EU – to negotiate new trade agreements with them – we are really going to have fish, the Bastesen representative believes. I think everyday life will be a little bit different. The representative of Bastisen can be answered as follows: Is there soon any international body left that the Bastisen and the Coastal Party believe we should be a member of? Or are we going to go back and forth to the Stone Age, stand all alone against everyone and the whole world and take care of ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e798	I have not said a word about the other agreements and that we are going to sign out. We're not going out of anything. But we produce something that people must have – also the representative Nesvik, I assume. It's seafood. Also the representative Nesvik eats seafood, I assume. And so we have a lot of that. We're a great force! I want to protect the nation state and the borders of Norway. That's what I want. I have not said a word that we should cancel the agreements we have. We're still going to have those. We're a major power in the production and sale of food, and we're still going to be. And I assume – as I said earlier – that the representative Nesvik also eats seafood.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e807	The Treaty states that, through cash support and a good childcare provision, provision should be made for the freedom of choice of young children’s parents. Does the Coastal Party agree? There must be a big message about regional and district policy. Does the Coastal Party agree? The government will strengthen belief training. How does the Coastal Party feel about it? The Government will present a major communication on marine economic development and the importance of marine industries for coastal communities. Does the Coastal Party want such a message? The government will follow up on the UN’s Millennium Goals, including the following: stepping up assistance and continuing debt relief. Does the Coastal Party agree? The coastal party is often in agreement with the government parties. What are the preferred government options for the Coastal Party, the Cooperative Government or the Socialist Workers' Party-SV-Center Party alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e814	I thank Østberg for the line. What he read was the whole program for the Coastal Party, so I would like to have a little more time to answer all the questions. But I can take the last one first, what kind of government we're going to support in the next big shot. If Ivar Østberg thinks he can lure me into the glacier by telling it from this pulpit, he's wrong. It's the election result that's going to decide. Whether it becomes a socialist government or a right-wing government, remains to be seen. In terms of everything else that was read, I'm happy with all the messages that the government is delivering. They shall be properly treated in the Coastal Party. I can assure you.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e826	At least one thing is certain: if Steinar Bastesen intends at all to support any form of government formation, he will most likely have to support a government that does not intend to terminate the EEA Agreement. Steinar Bastesen is wrong when he says that the Coastal Party is alone to cancel the EEA Agreement. However, unlike the Coastal Party, the Central Party will not stand outside any possibility of having any influence on political developments as long as there is a large majority on the Stortinget that will maintain the EEA Agreement. But what I really want to ask Steinar Bastesen about, among other things. having regard to the fact that the entire municipal government groups from the Christian People's Party have now entered the Coastal Party, and having regard to the fact that from this pulpit he almost characterises asylum seekers as ‘bandits’, who wants the Coastal Party to provide protection and residence in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e835	In terms of protection and residence in this country, it is laid down in the conventions that we have signed, among other things. The UN Convention. We have an immigration stop that still applies. The fact that asylum-seekers come to this country under the protection of the institution of asylum is quite correct. But we don't have to protect those who raise their papers in garbage, or who eat them up. These do not come to Norway because they need protection. There are other reasons why they come here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e842	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e845	When the Co-operation Government took over in 2001, it flashed red in all lamps for the Norwegian economy. The interest rate and the exchange rate were on the way up. The Norwegian export industry was at a loss. Thousands of jobs were at risk. The sum of increased compensation of employees, increased interest rates, increased dollar rates and, at the top, NOK 12 billion in tax incentives had brought the Norwegian economy into disequilibrium. It was absolutely necessary to take some measures. So did the Co-operation Administration when it joined. Three years later, everything has changed in a positive direction. Norwegian economy is improving and further improvements are in sight. Of course, all the lamps have not passed from red to green, but even our most angry opponents in the policy must admit that the situation today is far, far better than when we took over after the Stoltenberg government in 2001. The Norwegian economy has just got a soft landing. The firmness has produced positive results. The conclusion is: the workplaces are safer, the house and the home are safer, and it looks bright in the future. I am incredibly proud to have been with and supported a government that has got this done. But now it's like all the most important tasks in life are ahead of us. On the sports track, it is one’s own preparations for the next competition that determine its own results. It is not useful there to come and say yes, but I was the last one. It is the law of sport, but it is also the law of the nation of Norway. Norway's position as the world's best country to live in is no absolute victory forever. We all have to fight for it every single day, so that we can deliver the country to the next generation with the same name. It's demanding, it's very demanding. It requires a wide range of inputs, including: we must realize that the labour force is the most important resource we have. Therefore, it is important that this competence is strengthened through school. This competence is also important for meeting another challenge, which lies in globalisation itself and in international competition. It's the seventh and last time our economic value creation in mainland Norway is going to carry the well-being. This is how increased value creation ensures well-being. Our ability to maintain the security network in society depends on our ability to create values as well. For this reason, the income side of society is important, which is why the business environment is important, and therefore tax reduction is also important. Indeed, increased taxes increase industry's costs. This makes Norwegian goods more expensive. Norwegian companies lose their jobs in competition, Norwegian jobs are lost. Norway, which is a nation losing revenue, and its expenditure is increasing. The result is that taxes are rising again. That's the negative tax spiral. It threatens well-being in the long term. It will weaken our ability to create economic value. The result will be a reduction in welfare for all of us. It is not that we, the goodwill of the politicians, are going to threaten well-being. No, it's our common ability to pay the bill. Therefore, the bridge between well-being and economic value creation is so incredibly important in politics. Therefore, values must be created to ensure long-term well-being. I have noticed that we have now received a new alternative in Norwegian policy that says that they will form a government in 2005. I have also noticed their message so far, and what is it? Well, there's increased expenditure all over the place. In 14 days, from 1 September to 14 September this year, I summed up that the Workers' Party had increased the total cost by 14 billion kroner. That's $1 billion per. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, In addition, the two new coastal funds, which probably cover billions of dollars, launched. The sum of this doesn't work out. This means that they will need to increase taxes to finance the part of Norwegian expenditure that they want to increase in total. The alternative is – and their allies in LO are also aware – to ask for increased taxes. Such an increase in tax, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, is like an echo of what brought us to 2001. It does not deserve Norway at all!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e862	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e865	The parliamentary leader of the Right said he was unusually proud of what has now been done. I also noticed the Prime Minister's comments today, where he signaled – and others in the Government have also done – that it is difficult to achieve the Sem Declaration's target of over 30 billion kroner in tax bills. We in the Workers' Party are very pleased about that, so that our schools, our care services, the fight against unemployment and the psychiatry, in other words, the entire safety net, which is about to do this out of our welfare society with these huge tax breaks, now, fortunately, cannot be so weakened. Before the election campaign, the Right pledged $40 billion in tax relief. Now they've been in government for almost four years, and they have to admit that they're unable to achieve the goal of NOK 31 billion in tax relief. And not only that, but every summer a fiscal spokesman for the Right says that now we have to get the alcohol prices down to the Swedish level. It happens every summer. My question to the Right parliamentary leader is: Isn't credibility seriously at stake for the Right when they go out and promise so much on different fronts, and then you come back and say that we can't get this out?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e874	I could say a lot about the bridge between well-being and economic value creation again, but the representative Nordtun talked about broken promises, and you have to be careful when sitting in a position like that of the Workers' Party. I remember the guarantee given by the Workers' Party that they would reduce the entry point for the top tax. They did that in the first year – at NOK 320 000. And then they haven't adjusted it at all. In the last budget, the 2004 budget, they added to zero development, with the result that SEK 1.1 billion of their tax increases were just on top of the tax. So broken promises they have. My point is that there is a link between economic value creation and the ability to maintain well-being. There are also tax reductions, precisely to provide business and individual better opportunities for creating economic value creation. So we're good at competition. But in the case of broken promises – excuse me, President – the Labour Party has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e881	What the signed and parliamentary leader of the Right fully agrees on is that the Labour Party has nothing to do with it. But I have to say that I think the parliamentary leader in the Right was going a bit far in his pride, in that everything is going better. I guess that's a truth with certain modifications. However, the fact that some areas of economic activity have improved is quite correct. And what's interesting about that is that it's gone better despite the fact that the government, along with the Workers' Party, has broken its own rule of action. And that is what we in the Advancement Party think is interesting. But in terms of what the representative Nilsen says, I don't think everything is going better. Yesterday we received a signal that Norwegian businesses are now planning to outsource 80,000 jobs in three years. There has also been a trend under the regime of this government that many jobs have been outnumbered. In addition, in Norway, with this government, we also have a firm stand on how to deal with our business with the issue of neutrality. In relation to the countries with which we compete, we are extremely good at meeting domestic competition concerns. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e888	The replicates shall be 1 minute and the responses shall be 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e891	No, why does business threaten to outsource 80,000 jobs? This is mainly because costs in Norway are so high. And then we're back to what was the main point of my post, that there's a connection between the level of costs we have in Norway, and our ability to compete and create jobs, secure jobs, in Norway. Then it becomes a paradox to me that the Progress Party, who wants it, so until those degrees agree to vote for all the additions in this house that make the government's expenditures increase. Then it seems obvious that the space to improve the framework conditions for business is also being reduced. And here there are contradictions in the policy of the Progress Party. To a far greater extent, they should be concerned with reducing expenditure, so that we could possibly also improve the business environment. But then they must not add to all the budgets, all the proposals that come to this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e896	SV is very concerned about which jobs we should have in the future, and how best to secure them. While the Right seems to believe that we can tax ourselves and cut ourselves to a safe future, SV believes that an offensive effort on education, research and development is the only safe thing we can bet on. Because it is not that we can compete under the worst possible working conditions and at the lowest possible wages in Norway and believe that this is a safe future. I have to say that in the contributions of the Right-wing parliamentary leader, I miss a few words about research and development, especially because our new Minister of Economic Affairs in his accession interview in the Newspaper signaled something as old-fashioned and meaningless as cutting back on basic research in Norway in order to afford applied research. It is a shame to report terribly immature and a very insecure strategy for Norway to have some jobs in the future. The only result of the Right Strategy is that we have fewer jobs in Norway and greater differences, and there is a strategy that SV disagrees with, and that is why we believe there is a need for a new government that also dares to invest in research and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e904	In fact, I believe that in my post I said that the most important resource we had in our country was the labour force, and that I underlined the importance of having the competence that should be there, and that must be there for us to be able to claim ourselves. That also means that I fully agree. Why did the Right talk about school in about three-four elections? Well, precisely because we see how incredibly important it is to have a workforce that has the necessary skills. Substantial efforts have been made by this government on research and development. In addition, we have implemented a FUNN tax scheme that has provided significant tax incentives to business, precisely to track business to carry out research. There is an incredible amount of work to be done in this area, but that is the combination of it and providing support, while ensuring that the business environment through taxes and taxes is such that business can survive, simply making sure that it has products that compete on the world market, which, at the end of the day, are crucial to income. And to the seventh and last, the well-being depends on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e911	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e914	The same day we're gathered to hold a debate on the throne, the UN's International Day of Childhood will be celebrated. This allows us to focus on the long-term consequences of our political choices, what consequences they will have for the generations after us, in Norway and the world around us. The Prime Minister's intervention today provided a brilliant starting point for such a debate, with his visions in relation to the welfare community and what had to be changed to ensure the welfare of the future. I'm glad that the Prime Minister did that, and I'm proud of the reorganisation that the Government has now done, to get to grips with the very connection between social security and work and how we sort of secure jobs for the future. The debate today is asking for the expression of what Kristin Halvorsen calls the 'long election campaign'. It's okay, it's open, and it's real. But in that discussion we have to talk true about each other. Why tax havens? Why does the representative Halvorsen and the representative Stoltenberg use such a simple procedure, if only to give to the richest? In the previous election campaign, as otherwise, I was very busy talking to people at the workplace, both tradesmen and leaders. What did they say? They had to have the interest down, they had to have the dollar down, and they had to have stable and fictitious conditions. Then my question is about the 'long campaign': Is it so that there had been more jobs that had been left in the country and not to move out if we hadn't given these tax credits? And in the next period, when this is the case with these 80 000 people who are now under threat, is it more likely that they will move out if we increase the tax in relation to business, or are they more likely to move out if we don't? We also need to speak the truth in relation to the future. We've submitted a tax return and we've said what we want there. But we've never said 12 plus 4 billion in new tax credits. We've said that that conversion is necessary, and it can also happen within a proceeds. Why conversion? Yeah, to get more similarity and real relationships between taxes on capital and taxes on labour. But when there is one thing – the wealth tax: Is it possible to give taxes to the richest, and why do we do that? That's exactly for the 80,000. If we don't do anything about this, capital will move abroad and the jobs will move abroad. Now let's have a real debate on the things, instead of the populist slogans that have come here today. In the long election campaign, the Christian People's Party is occupied by the following: What about the important things that the Christian People's Party has fought through in the previous period and in this government here? How will they survive? Today, young children’s parents who want more time with their kids ask: What happens to cash? Should it be decommissioned immediately? Should it be decommissioned over two years, as Trond Giske has said in it later? How do we handle that piece? We need an answer to that. Hope goes to the Center Party, but there's no very clear signal coming. What about the incubators, should they have to double the student money, which would have been the result of the proposals that have been in the last budget? So is it going to have to cancel or double the parental payment for fifty years with a new option? What about the truss training, for which a total staggering, minus the progress part, has gone in for? What happens in the future in relation to that? It is also necessary for answers to be given, and young children's parents are waiting to know something about it, and those who have opted for alternatives to the public school are waiting for. It is quite right, what Kristin Halvorsen said – and as many others have said – that it is the labour force that is the most important, and it is the investment in research, in addition to having a decent tax policy. But many have also said that this government is not a good enough district policy. This government is largely pursuing the rural policy that has been pursued for a long time. But they've done one more thing, and it's that they've set up a district commission. What's going to be exciting now, when it presents its work in October, is to see what works and what doesn't work. Therefore, it is important now that we actually have a decent debate about it, that we are honest when it comes to what has not worked, and what we have to do in the future. I thought it was exciting to discuss the long election campaign, but save us for just light headlines. It's not that there's given tax credits primarily to the richest, as it's tried to create an impression of here. It is, in fact, a long-term idea to take care of jobs, in order to preserve the welfare community.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e933	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e936	I took part in a real debate, but sometimes I disagree with Lilletun, and it must be allowed to say something about it. I fully agree that stable and sustainable working conditions are important. We agreed to increase the budget for the current year by 900 million. to create new and secure jobs. That's what Lilletun called for. So, nevertheless, parliamentary leaders, when we came to the revised national budget this year, chose to cut off most of these millions, because they would use them for tax havens. That's what I think is completely wrong, because it's not part of creating new and securing jobs. It is important to have money in the budget to do so. The working party managed to save a lot of it again in the revised version. So I would say something when it comes to choice and cash support. My son and my daughter-in-law are on a waiting list with 200 other parents to get kindergarten. There is not much choice. One must also be willing to see that there are too few kindergartens. There are several babysitting facilities needed in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e945	I agree entirely with the representative of Frøiland in the last time she said. Of course, the most serious obstacle to freedom of choice today is that there are not enough kindergartens. That's what matters more than the maximum price. So it's more important than many other things that there'll be enough places for everyone. But when we admit it, the Workers' Party should recognise that we need cash support so that those who want to take care of themselves can also have that freedom of choice. But I'm going to recognize the first piece, and I'm looking forward to the day when the Workers' Party recognizes the last. It is quite right that I was happy with the budget agreement, I was also happy with the funds that came in with the employment measures osb. However, it is also obvious that it is not possible to say that there is only a sense of employment, employment and innovation in Norway. It is also the overall economic policy. It seemed to me to disappear in the rhetoric that is being led here now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e957	I would first like to say that I fully agree with the representative Lilletun that taxation is important. We think that there should have been more tax havens to secure the jobs we have, and to prevent flagging out. I have to say, however, that it is not entirely fixed and supports the line that the Government is running. Now we saw in the news one of the last few days that our two large foreign ferry teams have the plans ready to fly out. 2 500 Norwegian seafarers may lose their jobs. 500 of these have apparently already been informed that they are losing their job. It is due to the fact that a non-international competitive environment exists from 2006 onwards. My question to the representative Lilletun is: are these places of work on foreign journeys not high enough for the Christian People's Party to rock them, or would the Christian People's Party want to reconsider its view here?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e966	Now it may be that one is not always steady enough. I don't know what it's like with the Progress Party and the representative Hagesetter, if he always thinks they're pursuing a completely consistent policy, which doesn't change from budget to budget. I guess we might see that there's something that we actually have to correct. But when it's about ferries, I'm totally in agreement that they're of course valuable jobs. Of course, it's value creation, it's important jobs, and of course it's important what framework conditions we give these fleets. I hope that the speculations that have been here are in line with the other speculations, that it is an i worst-case speculation, and that when it comes to the problem and they see that there is long-termity in this government's policy, they will still be true.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e973	It is not very often one hears a parliamentary leader so engaged excuse the government's own policy as the Lilletun now did in his intervention. It was in that way quite interesting, especially when he raised his voice at the point where he obviously really disagreed deeply. It was a special tax. What is the reality is that what has been said in the debate on the view of the Christian People's Party on taxation is right. In the tax report, the Christian People's Party has promised a new 12 billion kroner in tax relief, and they have promised a new 4 billion dollars in property tax relief. It said to read in the setting just before summer. The Christian People's Party, at least in the Committee, has advocated significant tax relief at the expense of other things. It must be a choice of the Christian People's Party in fact acknowledgment. It's interesting to hear Lilletun's defense for the Government, because he goes very much up in volume when he has a very bad argument, and then it's basically not as much as the tax relief as the seventh and last thing is the government's profit. But let me challenge Lilletun on one thing. The nation today has a Gallup on what the voters want to prioritize, where almost half say they want more money for school, 31,5 pst. I want more money for the care of the elderly, and only 12 pst. will have more tax relief. Does Lilletun think that the voters have a small point?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e984	The voters always have a point, and finally that's the point that's going to decide the future for both the representative Djupedal and me here on the Stortinget. But when that is said, I would say that if that question had been raised in another way – if it had been asked for one, if there is a need for framework conditions that are such and such as to keep the workplace, we would have to give them the framework, even if that would mean that we have to pursue a tight fiscal policy – I think the voters would have answered yes to that. It is quite right that I and partly the Christian People's Party never have any great enthusiasm for large tax credits for people. But on the other hand, we always have our warm defenders of good competition conditions for business. Therefore, I will consider whether to hesitate the next time I will talk about tax relief and business environment. It was actually with over-interpretation I was talking with considerable strength about the taxes that applied to business. It is for the next generation to have a job to go to. But I'll consider whether it's necessary to whisper next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e992	It'll be exciting to hear Lilletun whispering from Stortinget's pulpit. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e997	The left is the radical centre party in Norwegian politics. Much of social development is going in a liberal direction, and we are pleased about that. The individual's freedom to choose his own path to the good life is increasing. Never has more resources been spent on public welfare than today. This does not mean that everything is good, but general black paint does not give a proper picture of the state of the Kingdom of Norway in 2004. Socialists and social democrats like to give the impression that they have a monopoly on community, solidarity and unselfishness. It's wrong, it's historical and it's ideological. The Norwegian welfare community has been made up of joint efforts over more than a hundred years, and bourgeois governments have been at least as concerned with this as the Labour Party governments. This also applies to today's government, which shows great social responsibility. One of the knights of the “long campaign”, Jan Davidsen of LO, wrote in the newspaper of Day on September 10, this year: «The government's policy in recent years has been a systematic reduction of collective well-being for the benefit of individual schemes.» It's untrue, to use a parliamentary expression. We will probably hear many repetitions of such myths this year coming, from people who would like to reconquer power in the closed backroom of democracy, cost what it will cost from money and propaganda. The left is independent of special interests, and I want a public debate in which trade union spammers, directors and secretaries-generals get a little less neutral commentators and speakers for the community, because they are not. On the contrary, their interests can often be contrary to the interests of others and to the community. In this way, political parties are better instruments for the individual and common interests of their citizens, especially if they keep special interests at an arm's length. Freedom of individuals and responsibility for each other is the basic idea of social liberalism. The sociologists describe increased freedom as increased egoism. It's wrong. The Value Commission addressed this in its concluding Letter of Freedom: ‘Some people confuse the individual’s freedom with egoism. However, individuality means being conscious of its peculiarity as a human being. It means knowing yourself, unfolding their installations, making their ideals come true. Have the courage to stand up in situations where collective rights and restraints. But also to acknowledge their responsibility to others. Egoism is something else. This means seeking personal benefits at the expense of others.’ That's why we're talking in the Left about freedom, while Kristin Halvorsen today is just talking about more community. The sense of community must be anchored in the individual human beings. Freedom requires confidence that those who are given freedom can also manage their responsibilities. Socialism takes away freedom and responsibility, and does not accept different choices. The Socialist Left Party must stop talking about local freedom when they cannot accept that municipalities choose different prices on the school leisure system. They must stop talking about the freedom of the individual, when they do not allow others to make personal choices they themselves would not have made. The reality of the Norwegian welfare society is that over the last three years, the state’s framework has increased by DKK 60 billion. Of these, 19 billion have been given in tax credits to ensure jobs and well-being. The Labour Party has voted in favour of 12 of the 19 billion. Then, hopefully, we get a sensible tax reform that helps to eliminate the greatest injustices in today's system, namely, the difference between labour income and non-employment income, and that we get rid of the destructive sharing model for active owners. So the state spends 40 billion more today than three years ago for public purposes. Social security expenditure alone has increased by NOK 20 billion. I perceive the Workers' Party, SV and the Center's party there that this is far too small, and that much more of the growth has to go to passive benefits. Such an attitude is a bomb under the welfare community and is unsolvable with today's young people, who are to bear the welfare of the future. The involvement of the left relates in particular to the punctuation of the environment, small businesses and social responsibility. In all these areas, the Government provides good policy. The left is proud, but not satisfied. We want more in these areas, but within the framework of a responsible economy. It is particularly important when we move on with tax reform, pension reform, better performance in psychiatry, coordination of work, social security and social security systems and require a cap on public transport in and around our big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1030	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1033	The Left's parliamentary leader is independent of special interests, she says with strength. Yes, she also had strength in her contempt for the trade movement. I have seen her in other posts as having a rather glowing interest in the lonely, in the tax conditions of work, in the use of paper commissions and the importance of the voluntary sector in our society. She and the Left are not as passionate about the finances of municipalities, about service production in municipalities, about an even better school and about how senior care employees can get better time to keep older people in their hands when they need it. I have also not noticed any glowing interest from the Left in thinking about anything else in fiscal policy than what the Right does. It also makes the Left responsible for the shortcomings we have in society. My question to the parliamentary leader of the Left is: does she think it is radical central policy and a freedom to continue to provide tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1044	I should have liked to have had longer speaking time to talk about all the other things left involved. We are also very engaged in municipal economics, and I guess it's shorter time since I was dealing with municipal economics than the representative of Brørby. As far as tax policy is concerned, we are very pleased with the tax policy of the Government. It is very close to the Left Programme in a number of areas. Our commitment to fiscal policy has been primarily to balance the difference between having a high tax on having an honest job and a low tax on sitting on the back and making money on their money. Having active owners in the companies that care about their business, who work in their company, burns for their business, and who 24 hours a day are trying to create a job for themselves and someone else, left has a burning commitment to. That's what's at our point about small businesses, and that's what's in our commitment to fiscal policy. It's about creating jobs, giving people the freedom to create their own jobs, and giving people the freedom to use their creative power to give others a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1051	I have two questions, first of all, one about economics. When the municipalities, which are currently responsible for the dimensioning and operation of most of the school provision in primary school, are affected by tax failure, the school offer is also affected. Does the Left agree that the absence of tax revenue for the municipalities in 2004 — compared with the municipal budgets for 2004 — should be covered by additional appropriations from the State in the 2004 State budget? So a question of freedom of choice. The left will release the schools. The left says that it must be trusted that important decisions can be taken by the daily school users. Students and parents are the most important users. Will the Left allow funding to follow users directly? Will the Left ensure proper dimensioning, proper funding and freedom of choice by allowing funding to go beyond local government and local government and follow users directly?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1058	With regard to the municipal economy and what comes into the state budget, I will wait until the state budget comes, also with regard to the challenges that the past has brought us. The example that Sortevik now agreed to release the schools is perhaps one of the best examples of seeing the difference between the Left as a social liberal party and the Progress Party as a liberal party. In fact, the Social Liberals believe that there are some Community solutions, and that there are some things that actually have to be solved jointly, in local communities, by people sitting around a table and finding the solution to a challenge. The liberalist attitude of the Advance Party is to create a society of rights created in this room, where people are given a lawyer at the beginning of their lives, and then they have to cash in their rights. Those who lose in a society of rights created by the Progress Party are always the weakest, those who can't afford the most expensive lawyer, and those who can't find out in the system. Today, we are creating more and more advanced social systems that make it necessary to have more and more resources as a human being to find out at all. We want easier systems and community solutions, close to human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1065	Skei Grande used relatively much of his post to attack SV's ideological profile and said in the short post very little about some important left-wing issues, as I understand it. I'd like to challenge the Left a little bit when it comes to environmental policy. The left was proud to be in government, it was said. So one is proud to build probably highly impurising gas power plants on Snow White. Ein is proud to have opened the Barents Sea for increased activity, and one is proud to act as a force socialist in the development of the Sauda Falls, among others. I wonder about this pride, and that is why I would like some advice from the Left to link up with the SV's project in 2005. As you can see from the political image, the Central Party has relinquished its profile against less protection and the Workers' Party's profile against more activity in the Barents Sea and also the construction of highly impure gas power stations. How can SV avoid ending up in the situation in which the left has fallen, where environmental policy is completely disappearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1078	Yes, my best advice to Langeland is to get out of what he's doing. If he heard Jens Stoltenberg at this chair today, Jens Stoltenberg said that either it was a cooperative government he was going to start with, with the politics of the Workers' Party, or then it became a pure workers' party government. That's what he said from here. That's what SV should notice. Special attention should be paid to environmental policy. We in the Left have tried many cooperative constellations to get through our environmental policy. We've tried it locally, and we've tried it in this room, and we see that we actually get a lot more on the environmental side when we work with Right than SV has, for example. in this city, when they were to cooperate with the Workers' Party. It will be very fun when Brustad and Langeland sit and agree on the gas power challenge and the like. We are, in fact, very proud of the fact that we have received the greatest promise of public transport in the history of this government. We're very proud of everything we've done on protection, and we're very proud of the other environmental challenges that we've managed to address. The fact that this hall has decided to build gas power plants, we'll try to tighten up the legs with other methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1083	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1086	Work for all is essential, important for each and every one of us because work is the foundation of economic autonomy and social participation, and important for the community because the workforce is the basis of value creation. Norway has a high proportion of the population in work. However, participation in the labour market was lower in the second quarter of this year than at the same time last year. We're all concerned that the world of work is developing so that more and more people are erupting. In Norway today, more than 300,000 live on disability benefits. By the end of August, almost 98 000 people were unemployed. 50,000 are on reintroduction. 53 000 are in medical rehabilitation. 170,000 are away from work every day because of illness. Work to facilitate a more inclusive working life is a major concern of the Workers' Party. In the Common Era, the Government announces that it will submit proposals for a new organisation of labour and welfare management. I am convinced that very many of those who today do not participate in the labour market, until those degrees want a job. But they need help and organization to get their wish fulfilled, and too often they meet with a work and welfare management that doesn't work well enough. Many become caste balls in a public system where neither the social security office, Aetat nor the social work office will or can take full responsibility, and all meet the user with some rigid legislation. The reorganisation of this management is therefore necessary and important. The Labour Party would like to participate in political cooperation on the choice of the model. The objective must be clear – a work and welfare management that meets the user in a holistic and coordinated manner, with the user dealing with one case handler in one office, and that this case manager has a ‘toolbox’ with all the tools combined. The view of mental disorders has recently gradually changed to more openness and acceptance. That's good, of course. However, despite the fact that the mental health escalation plan has led to increased appropriations and more treatments, we see a number of examples that both the prevention and treatment of mental disorders are not good enough. This is a complex problem, and in line with the Plan of Ascension, we need to significantly increase the allocation of psychiatry in the coming years. A range of measures is required. The treatment of mentally ill patients may be alarmingly often very different depending on where one is being treated. Treatment is often based on approaches by the caregiver himself. Unlike the rest of the healthcare system, there is little standardised guidance. This seems unacceptable. Standardised guidelines for treatment provision should therefore be developed, including for mental disorders. Like somatic disorders, treatment must be based on consensus on good clinical practice. In the view of the Labour Party, health enterprises have a tight economy, despite increases in the budget for this year and also important additional appropriations in the revised budget this year. Next year health care establishments shall balance their accounts. If the health reform is to succeed, it is important that the Storting give clear guidance signals. The working party considers that the requirement for a balanced operation must be maintained by the end of 2005. However, if such a requirement is to make sense, health-care establishments must, of course, have a financial framework that will enable them to achieve the objective. The Labour Party assumes that the Government understands the seriousness of this situation and that in its draft budget to be submitted on Wednesday, the Government proposes appropriations to enable health establishments to have realistic opportunities to balance their balance during 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1115	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1118	It is important to increase participation in working life in order to increase value creation, which is responsible for public expenditure. Just recently, the representative Hanssen did not mention in his post, but he has been one of those who this summer has contributed to documenting up to 30 billion kroner in proposed welfare increases from the future red-green government. Most of the promises are made as being well-being instead of the government's so-called tax relief to the richest. At the same time, the party leader in the Workers' Party now says that the total tax burden is at a level that is appropriate. Stoltenberg also says in a reply to the Prime Minister here today that the debate becomes more honest if one admits that tax relief is at the expense of funding welfare goods. Can the representative Hanssen contribute to this honesty in the debate by telling us what the financing of all the summer's promises will be, and confirm that he, and not least his party leader, still has the impression that no increase in taxes will be necessary, even with the proposed increases we have heard about this summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1127	I have to say that I have been a little surprised by the debate we have had so far today, because there is no doubt that in the coming years, the government parties have clearly said that including the property tax will have a target of DKK 16 billion in tax laws. In the Labour Party we have said that this is not our starting point. Then it's not particularly advanced or complicated politics to have a discussion about what you can do instead of giving 16 billion in taxes. If you keep that money in the state budget, you can work to combat poverty, strengthen municipalities, strengthen psychiatry and strengthen health businesses. In my head, it's going to be a pretty simple calculation: either NOK 16 billion in tax bills or NOK 16 billion more to build community solutions. We have a clear choice in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1134	The representative Hanssen called for an inclusive working life, pointing out that many people are falling out of work and have major problems. In the context of the 2004 State budget, the Stortinget adopted significant intensifications in relation to the right to be eligible for rehabilitation funds. We have seen that the consequences of this are that many no longer receive benefits from long-term sick leave, but instead are referred to having to contact the social office and cope with the benefits from it. We know that it can have dramatic consequences, including: in the form of a transfer – selling cars and selling private assets – and in many ways producing poverty over time if social security benefits disappear. In addition to the government parties, the majority who voted in favour of significant intensifications of rehabilitation funds in the context of the 2003 State Budget was also the Workers' Party. Will the Workers' Party take the initiative to reintroduce the old rules on rehabilitation money to prevent the unworthy situation that has now arisen for a number of beneficiaries of rehabilitation money?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1143	No, I can't promise that we will certainly take the initiative to introduce the old rules. But what I can promise is that we will certainly take the initiative to evaluate the rules that were adopted. Like Mr Ballo, we and I in the Labour Party are also receiving many feedback that the rules have both positive effects and clearly negative effects. We can't close our eyes to that. Therefore, it would be quite natural to review the impact of the new rules in relation to the treatment of the State budget now in the autumn and to consider whether new adjustments are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1148	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1151	I want to go back three years in time. When the Co-operation Government received an inheritance from the government of Stoltenberg that we could neither or would not do anything about, namely, 26 000 children living in poverty – a result of the so-called new poverty that Gro Harlem Brundtland refused when she was prime minister, and with which the government of Stoltenberg had no power to do anything. Unlike previous governments, the government has not denied that poverty is a problem, nor has it been possible to act. As the first after World War II, the Government has put forward a concrete plan to eliminate the new poverty. The plan has been working for almost two years. The problem has not been solved, which we are the first to recognise, but then we also take responsibility for this in the future budget by further strengthening efforts to combat poverty, especially poor families with children. We have poor people in Norway despite good support and protection systems for everyone. Many poor people in Norway have been caught in a social security network that has resulted in long, passive social welfare courses. In order to combat poverty in Norway, it has been necessary both to target support schemes when general schemes do not extend to, and to focus on, work. Painting means that we can help so that monks, those who need it the most. Those affected by new poverty are very often characterised by their longevity outside the workplace, as well as drug problems or mental problems. The solution for them is not a further development of the general arrangements, which in fact go mainly to the group that has the most already, i.e. those related to employment. It's this group, which is actually falling through, the government has taken action by focusing on targeted schemes. Therefore, the housing support scheme for low-income families has been improved. Work on the follow-up of the homeless has been reinforced by increased appropriations. The social security allowance for unaccompanied education has been increased. The minimum rate of rehabilitation and refurbishment fees has been increased. Work is the most important way out of poverty. Therefore, it must always pay off to work. Of course, we should have good social security schemes for those who do not have the opportunity to participate in the labour market because of age or illness. However, we do not need to create support schemes that make working pay off. Then the security network becomes a poverty trap. If aid schemes are intended to be temporary for a long time, they will not be able to participate in the development of wealth elsewhere in society. Therefore, the Government has strengthened Aetat by significant amounts to improve the provision of services to groups struggling to fit into the labour market. Among other things, a project is under way to help former long-term social welfare beneficiaries get into work and education. Six out of ten participants in the project have come to work or self-funded education. Targeted actions work. Since the state assumed ownership of hospitals in 2002, waiting lists and waiting times have fallen sharply, and the number of patients treated is record high. The waiting time for treatment has been reduced by 20 pst. The number of people who have waited more than a year for treatment has fallen by 80 pst. In August 2002, over 250,000 people were in hospital queues. In August this year, the number is reduced to less than 200000. Shorter waiting times and more treated patients show that the hospital reform is working. Total resources in hospitals are better used. Together with the strengthening of patient rights and the inclusion of private hospitals in funding schemes, the time for patients to be considered as an order reserve is definitely over. We are now getting a hospital service that makes the male words ‘the patient in the centre’ a reality. The health care stepchild, the psychiatry, has been given increased focus and a boost in the Pedagogical Health Plan. The current year's increase of 700 million. kr is the maximum increase over a year during the entire planning period. In order to meet the escalation plan by 2008, an even greater increase has been reported for the next year. That's good and absolutely necessary. Well-being is abundant, but for many it is synonymous with just healthcare, social arrangements and work. The left-hand pick in the disc is to criticise the Government for the lack of effort for the sick and the poor, then in the same breath to condemn the tax reliefs given. But the efforts that have been made to combat poverty, and the increased appropriations for health care, have not been made despite, but because of 20 billion dollars in tax reliefs. Prioritising tax incentives to business is the basis for creating more jobs. It means increasing value creation, which is crucial to funding our well-being. Several jobs are also one of the solutions to the poverty problem. For one who has the greatest desire to get into work in order to be able to support himself and his family, it must therefore be a mockery to hear the left-hand side use the poor as an excuse to increase the tax burden on businesses. In order to ensure our well-being, Norway needs at least one tax-increase option for today’s government. Lower taxes, stable framework conditions and responsible budgetary policies are the best guarantee for more jobs, increased value creation and welfare assurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1181	The fight against international terrorism is one of our most important tasks to provide security and to defend the open society in which we live. If the threat of terrorism was something far away from our reality on 11 September 2001, it is, unfortunately, a threat that is also addressed to us today, and the threat itself is also a form of terror. We are experiencing this right now, after Al Qaida has once again pointed out Norway as a target of terrorism. Then it immediately started a discussion to figure out what we've done to deserve this. The answer is simple: we have acted like a democratic state, with free debate and democratic decisions. Some of what has been said in the free debate and adopted in the name of democracy has irritated and provoked. These are statements from, for example: Carl I. Hagen as something that should have provoked. Are we going to tie democracy and the debates to avoid calling on the anger of the Islamists, or are we going to show what real democracy is? We have to be firm that we are not threatened by either silence or refusal of decision. Norway has adopted an active approach to combating terrorism. We are taking part in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we are trying to work on the causes of terrorism. But is there an equal amount of coherence in our entire anti-terrorist policy? We will challenge the Government whether the strong growth of fundamentalist Islamic terrorism requires some changes in foreign policy. Norway sets dialogue high, including interreligious dialogue. Yes, tolerance and understanding are important and good values that we would like to export. But are we able to distinguish between those who are engaged in real dialogue and those who do this exclusively to continue to benefit from our aid crowns, our oil investments and our patience? Does not the Government also see that there are regimes out there that actively and relatively openly both encourage, finance and train terrorists? There are regimes that, in the name of Islam, allow and perpetrate the most cruel abuses against their own people. Is dialogue with such regimes reasonable and proper? Does it give results in a positive direction? Has Iran and Sudan become more moderate and humane regimes following Norwegian influence and dialogue? Have they become less Islamic and fundamentalist, or could it be that the situation has become worse? So how are we going to relate to that? In one moment we are threatened by the lives of Islamists, and in the other moment we sit down to the table with Islamists. If it was right to isolate the evil apartheid regime in South Africa, why is it not right to isolate similar regimes today? It is time to consider whether there should be no tough choices as to what kind of interaction we should have with some regimes that pose not only a threat to our own population but to its region and the outside world. Earlier today, the representative Stoltenberg has been concerned about the UN and the role of the United Nations for a safer world. In this context, it must be allowed to ask what to do when the United Nations fails to take the necessary political and moral decisions. The UN was unable to agree to take action in Kosovo. Anyway, luckily something was done. The UN was absent in Rwanda in 1994. Nothing happened, and the result was a disaster. These days we have a genocide in Darfur, Sudan. The UN is on the ground, but not strong enough, and powerless to prevent continued killing and assault. Are we going to continue to accept that dictatorship states can oppose intervention in their own countries even when the aim is to protect the population? Should not international law just be there for people and not for undemocratic rulers? Should we change international law so that the rights of the individual are superior to the sovereignty of the states? International law must not be reduced to an illusion without content, as it becomes when it prevents people from living their lives in peace and freedom. Such debates are difficult, but absolutely necessary. If we mean anything by creating a safer world, free from terror and abuse, based on democratic values, we must also defend this in the UN. Without several countries drawing some clear lines of what is acceptable, we will continue to experience tragedies as in Sudan, man-made tragedies. This representative is disappointed that the situation in Sudan — one of the most serious humanitarian disasters in several years — was not mentioned at all in the census.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1200	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1203	In a speech to the congregation Living Words in Bergen this summer, the leader of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, went to what was perceived as an attack on Islam. It naturally created a large enough debate, and not least did several ambassadors in Norway respond to the opinions. On Friday we were told that Al Qaida had posed a threat to, among other things. Norway. Muslims in Norway were in a hurry and took a strong distance from the threat and argued that Norwegian Muslims must protect Norway. Does the Progress Party see that they too have a responsibility to help build bridges between peoples instead of creating contradictions at a time when terror and threats may characterize international society more than ever? Or is it, as one got the impression in the speeches by the representative, that they have given up the dialogue, both nationally and internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1212	If you take the whole of Carl I. Hagen's speech and not some fractures, that someone chooses to do, you'll see that that speech was an attack on what I also referred to as fundamentalist Islam, and not an attack on Islam as such, as some chose to interpret it as. That some ambassadors from countries that have a dubious history in relation to human rights choose to attack Carl I. Hagen, we cannot take into account. We have a responsibility to say from when we experience that situations and conditions are as serious as they are in relation to the human rights situation, fundamentalism and extreme Islam. Yes, we also have a responsibility, but the responsibility is also to say from, as we do. If we are prevented from saying so, our democracy is really threatened.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1222	It is commendable that the Progress Party addresses foreign policy issues. It doesn't happen too often, but it's all the more affordable when it happens. In my opinion, the Progress Party lacks an overall perspective on Norwegian foreign policy, and in particular on our relationship with NATO and the great transformation we see in NATO's tasks and structure. This is also reflected in the new relationship between the EU and NATO. The EU has great ambitions on its own behalf for a common foreign and security policy. Through the so-called Berlin Plus Agreement, the EU has secured access to NATO's shared resources, such as military headquarters. This avoids unnecessary duplications between these two organisations. This is a development that is warmly supported by the United States. In this way, resources that the United States can use elsewhere are also released, for example: in the fight against international terrorism. In other words, the EU and NATO are two-sided and have the same perspective on the main safety challenges today. So my question is, why does the Progress Party have so different views from the United States on such a fundamental issue as European security? Is it the view of the Progress Party that Norway should participate in the process of ensuring stability in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1229	The Progress Party is pleased that the EU and the United States have as similar views as they do. When we have said that we want to concentrate on NATO, and are sceptical about the defence dimension that builds up in the European Union, it is only because we are not a member of the European Union and have to defend ourselves around what we see as the pillar of our security policy, namely NATO. Our main foreign policy vision is to defend Norwegian interests. But for all intents and purposes, we have to relate to the reality that's out there. We have to deal with the build-up of a defence dimension in the European Union. We have to look closely for cooperation there that takes care of our interests. We can't deny that reality. But we firmly believe that NATO has been the best solution to safeguard Europe's security in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1236	The representative, Mr Høglund, stated that the UN does not work well enough. He was also partly concerned with the answer to why it doesn't seem good enough, that one sees that the opening up of the UN doesn't apply. We have had more articles about Iraq today. We know that the solution there could have been the UN if one had got a solution about the UN. We know that the situation in Iraq is precarious, and the Progress Party and the Government point out that we need to look forward and not talk about the snow as falling last year. There may be a good deal of good immediate action to save civilians from multiple suffering. But if you want to turn a blind eye to the debate about the international community's ability to resolve conflicts peacefully, there is a failure. We know that the ban we got in the last hundred years, against the use of power, all the time will be eroded. What is the Progress Party's policy to prevent international non-proliferation attacks, in order to prevent false evidence from being presented to the world in the UN Security Council? What are the steps taken by the Progress Party to prevent international policy from happening entirely?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1245	I was inside this in my post. I think we all have to realize that we have made mistakes in the past. It could be the Progress Party, it could be Norway, it could be the United States, it could be anyone who has not spoken as strongly and convincingly when they have seen injustice and abuse. To this extent, I am pleased with an international policy, a foreign policy of both the one and the other, which more clearly focuses on human suffering and injustice when committed. We have to discuss how we handle it. This raises difficult questions. I tried to draw this up in my post, the individual versus the states, dictatorships versus freedom. There are such fundamental questions that I would like to welcome, and I would like to join in such a debate. There is no simple debate, and there is no phased response, but there is a debate that needs to be taken. In this way, I think we all have a responsibility to walk in ourselves and find out what are constructive solutions to the challenges the world is facing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1252	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1255	It's said that Norway is the world's best country to live in, and I think that's true. I think this government, like the previous governments, has its share of the credit for it. I think a lot of what we're doing in this country is good, and it's important that we put it in the bottom, when we have a throne debate in 2004. I want to point out two areas where I believe Norway is out of course, and I want to use the minutes I have, on it. I guess I'm one of the most traveling around Norway and standing by. I'm about ready. 30–40 days a year, at shops around. What I meet again and again are people who do not understand how schools could be built in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, building swimming pools, as Norway was a relatively poor country, while in 2004 curtains could not afford water in the pool. People don't get it, and the representative Ryan doesn't get it either! It is incomprehensible that we have set ourselves up in such a way that the shopping centre is the most beautiful building in the municipality. The most beautiful building in the municipality is the school. It's supposed to shine off. It's going to be gilded, so the school is going to be something we're proud of. But there's the curtains torn down. There are not many toilet doors. You can't afford water in the pool, and you have bad books. Then there are campaigns that we're going to run and buy ever new things we don't need, because people have so high private purchasing power. Here we have to take some grip. We have to move some of the private purchasing power from buying porcelain taxes to having the doll in, to buying curtains and having water in the swimming pools in the schools. Because it does something to us that we're building down. I agree with the Prime Minister in the renovation of the public sector. That is absolutely necessary, but we must not tear it down. We can't tear it down! When local politicians experience that we are tearing today, we do something about it. Because that leads to a selfish society, where we become more concerned with being users than the inhabitants. A user community is a much lower society than a community of inhabitants. In a community of inhabitants, we demand our right, but we also do our duty. In a user community, we only demand our right, and are not so concerned about community. Here we are on the wrong course. We have to do something about this together, because in such a society, it's always the weakest that this is outside, and we can't afford it in the world's best country. I have a three-four role models. One of them is Martin Luther King. He gave a nice speech once: «I Have a Dream» – I have a dream. I, too, as a simple staging representative from the Nord-Trøndelag, have a dream. That dream is that there is a word in our vocabulary that is going away, and that is the word «unemployment». I hope that in a short time we will have the word deleted, that the Norwegian language board decides that the word 'unemployment' should be deleted. Why? Well, it's going to go away because we can't afford to have people who aren't at work, walking unemployed. Norwegian society must have unemployed people on continuous training. All the 100,000 today unemployed, and many of the 600 000 who are outside the overall working environment, must receive continuous training when they are not at work. We're going to operate with two concepts in the Norwegian community – either you're at work or you're on training. Not just for society it's important, it's also important for the individual. I have been working in the employment office for some years, and I have seen unemployed people break down mentally, socially, professionally and not least financially. We who are so concerned about managing our oil wealth and taking care of that money as well, are far too little concerned with managing the human wealth, the human capital, of taking care of it as carefully and looking at it as important as the capital that we often talk about when we talk about the oil fund. I think these are two areas we need to address. We're very good at going back in history and asking, what did we do wrong? Everyone agrees today that it was wrong for the public to drive castration of the tattoos. That was wrong. We agree that the way we treat the Sami population in relation to their language and culture was wrong. It has even been in Finnmark and has apologized for it. So we have to ask ourselves, what are we doing wrong in 2004? I think that a mistake we are making in 2004 is that we operate on the fact that someone is going to be unemployed and out of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1279	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1282	The Socialist Left Party, represented by the representative Inge Ryan, and the Workers' Party have a lot in common in precisely creating jobs, and also that there should be people in the districts. We want jobs, and we want activity throughout the country. Then there are questions about instruments, so that we can achieve those objectives. Both the Workers' Party and the SV have had an active policy to stimulate enterprises to establish themselves. The working party opposed the agreement submitted by SV with the Government, so that SND Invest was privatised. However, we voted in favour of what was later called the Ryan Fund. There are funds to be used in the districts. Now it is claimed that the funds have become paper money, because private investors do not want to contribute their share, and because the banks are held back. Does the representative Ryan think that the premises for the funds need to be changed, or does he think it will be positive as time passes?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1291	When we were in the sale of SND Invest, it was because there was no strategic instrument for the state to drive business development. There were random investments that were mainly made in central struts, and there is no good SV policy. So to what we got as an alternative, the so-called seed scheme, NOK 1 billion to be used for equity in economically weak areas. Work was started on this in the new year, and I have full confidence that today's Minister of Industry and the current government will get it in place. We in SV have a steady dialogue with the Government on this issue as we cooperate on it, and sail if there are any cuts in the sea to get it in place, I am convinced that we can do this, and that this will benefit good businesses and good projects in District Norway, so that we can establish jobs and get new growth in some societies that need equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1298	In a moment of extreme honesty and clarity, at the annual meeting of the Socialist Left Party, Rogaland, on 14 February of this year, the representative Inge Ryan said: ‘SV has been a conservative lot, against and against. It doesn't matter to say, we're going to government, and this is what we're against. We were against color-TV and near-radio. If we had existed when the wheel was invented, we would probably have voted against it too." SV is one of the lots that spends most of the billions of dollars for good purposes, and like color-TV, near-radio and the wheel is SV against e.g. tax incentives for enterprises to create jobs and values. In fact, in the 2003 budget, they proposed an increase of DKK 7 billion in corporate taxes and taxes. Then my question is: why does SV report out of the debate about creating the values that pay for well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1308	It is nice that the Right will attend SV's annual meetings. I appreciate that, and I hope you keep doing that. It is quite right that SV has evolved from being a 5 pst. party to becoming a 15 pst. party. At that time we have also developed the policy. The reason we were a 5 pst. party was enough that we wanted too little and were against too much, but then we've also worked since the early 1970s to create a modern party that we're now in the process of forming, and that's actually mature to go to government, because we're about to start wanting more and protesting on less. So there was a question about this with taxes and business. I'm meeting a business that actually wants a much more active tool, and that's not so worried about the tax burden. I visit a lot of companies every month that say, "Give us more stable conditions, and give us a real tool." The tax is not the problem, so I disagree with the Right that tax pressure is a problem for Norwegian business. Norwegian business needs predictability, and then they need an instrument that is good and real.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1318	The representative, Inge Ryan, was in his main post occupied by the workplaces. The only kind of security for the workplace is that companies are running with a good profit. But the SV's business policy does not work this way in every respect. When we look at shipping now – we addressed the shipping message in our – we lose thousands of jobs. The ships are flying out. Even Fjord Line in the north has now announced that they will fly out. Norway has been reduced from third to fifth place in respect of shipping nations. Soon Hong Kong too will pass. The shipping environment is in the process of being confused. There are 70 000 jobs on land, and what is SV's answer? Do they want to change their policies from in ours to secure the maritime cluster and provide value creation and jobs, what SV says they are for?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1325	The issue of shipping is perhaps the most difficult thing I have been able to deal with at Stortinget since I came in three years ago. It's very complex, because on the one hand you have an international code to deal with, which is practiced very differently from what we do in Norway, and on the other hand we have to have taxes into this society if we're to be able to distribute something again. We know that many of those who are engaged in shipping, who own the ships, are some of Norway's richest people. That they will in a way receive a significant tax relief, i.e. that they should not contribute to the community at all, is very difficult for us in SV to accept. That is why we have said that for some groups we are willing to go into other types of actions, including: in relation to fleet renewal, in relation to enhancing competence, in relation to recruiting skilled labour and doing a job to bring apprentices into part of the ships, etc. But I just want to stress that this is a difficult question, and that we in SV have a continuous debate about it. We're not sedentary on this issue, but we can't help giving the richest in the country significant tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1332	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1335	The government is working for a more inclusive society — a society that values the individual’s desire for action and commitment to work, home and community life, a society that makes it possible for each to contribute to the community, on the basis of its assumptions. In this context, it is important to strengthen efforts for an inclusive working life. We have a strong political, economic and ethical obligation to work to avoid workers being affected by sickness and accident at work or being exposed to exclusion from the job. We need to create a wider way into work and a narrower way out. To achieve this, more new approaches are needed in labour and welfare policy: the overall political direction of the field through the new Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, established from 1 October onwards in the year of reform of labour and welfare management, which contributes to more in work and fewer in social security, a coordinated service system for users based on today's social security offices, employment offices and social services, and an active use of individual plans such as a social contract between citizens and the service provider pension reform that ensures the sustainability of social security and stimulates a more inclusive working life where people are more at work testing disability benefits as a wage subsidy as part of helping unemployed people back in working life to focus more on the responsibility of working life to prevent long-term absence and exclusion from the labour market; There is now good growth in the economy and employment is increasing. The government expects the beginning of the economic recovery we are in, to continue and strengthen in 2005. Unemployment lags a little behind in the course of the economic cycle, but as the growth in employment becomes stronger and includes more industries, we expect unemployment to fall further. This provides a basis for more people who want to work to get to work. Record low interest rates, record low inflation and lower dollar rates mean a healthier basis for Norwegian jobs. The government will continue to fight unemployment on a broad front. Through an active labour and welfare policy, we must combat the extent of long-term unemployment and help people who are currently out of work to get to work and exploit their skills and facilities for the benefit of themselves and society. In order to meet the challenges on the labour market in an early cyclical upturn, labour market policies are aimed at stimulating the unemployed for active job search. Long-term unemployed, immigrants, young people and people with disabilities are priority groups for such active measures. The aim is to get more people to work and reduce the flow to disability benefit. In the current magnificence session, the Government will work on three major and important issues in this field. It is the follow-up to the position of the Steering Committee on the organisation of the welfare sector, the follow-up to the suspension of the Pension Commission and the follow-up to the Labour Law Committee. All of these issues are at the heart of our efforts to create a comprehensive policy for an inclusive working life. The work of a more inclusive society is important for the Christian People's Party. Within Norway, the fight against social distress is a major task. The level of wealth in this country is high and increasing, but no one is getting involved in this development. We will focus on that. We must maintain and strengthen a social safety net that embraces everyone. At the same time, we need to put in place specific measures to support those who fall outside. That's how we can build a more inclusive society. First priority is solidarity with the poorest of the poor in the world. This government has increased assistance every year. This government has given more assistance than any other government has. This government has led Norway to become the world country providing the highest share of gross national income in aid. We will continue to fight for human dignity and for extreme poverty. We will work for more assistance and better assistance, fairer trade and debt relief, increased focus on the recipient countries' own responsibility for good governance, the fight against corruption and respect for human rights. Christian People's Party is also the family party. The starting point for our family policy is the children and what is best for them. The Christian People's Party will protect the freedom of choice of small children's families, and we will fight for the cash support. We have nothing against the fact that there will be a major issue in the long election campaign, which has been declared to be launched today. A real freedom of choice also presupposes that full child care is a priority. We want to further develop good leave arrangements, not least it is important to give fathers better opportunities to choose time with their children. The maternity leave scheme needs to be more flexible. The Time Account Scheme has survived itself and should be terminated. Priority should be given to family protection and a life course. We don't have an inclusive society until we have the power to provide families with disabled children with the help and support they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1380	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1383	Statistical Central Bureau has produced coherent figures for employment in different industries since 1970. In 2003, 33 years of employment in the public sector fell for the first time. The SSB believes that the main explanation for this is the poor community economy. The chairman of the municipality of Hjartdal in my own county said to the newspaper before the weekend: "We had a round two years ago when we had to cut down with ten years' work. Now we have to start again." From the statistics of Aetat, we can read the results of this policy. Within the core areas of welfare production, unemployment is now increasing sharply. In a press release dated 30 September of this year, Aetat writes: «Structural local economy contributes to the continuing increase of unemployment in health, care and care.» How does the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs view these developments? Does the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs think that it is a problem that unemployment increases within these areas? What does he really want to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1398	The public sector is and will continue to be an important part of the overall labour supply in Norway, but the public sector cannot be the only solution to the challenges we face in the labour market. Strengthening the local economy is important. This government has contributed to this year, also in agreement with the representative Oppebøen Hansen's party. And we'll do that in the future. What is central now is that we see a good growth in employment, although the level of unemployment is currently too low. The forecasts presented by the Statistical Central Bureau in terms of overall labour market developments show that government policies make a significant contribution to increasing employment and reducing unemployment. It is very important that we now be able to continue this development, and do not obscure the good framework conditions that we have now been able to create for years for competitive activities in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1405	I have listened with interest to the comments of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and I think it was actually very much positive. I think, in particular, that what goes on in a group of management when we talk about social affairs, social security and employment is a very important signal, and also what the Stortinget has actually ordered, by saying that you want to get one unit out of today's organisation of the social, labour and social security systems. And the government has chosen to come back to Stortinget with a case and follow it up. The Minister also mentioned what was agreed on an inclusive working life. There were three pillars in particular the social partners fought for. It was reducing the number of disabled people, reducing the overall retirement age and reducing sick leave by 20 pst., and getting more disabled people into work. Where does this stand today? Can the Council of State say a little about whether you are on target, on the way or have to give up your targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1412	Let me first say that I welcome the invitation to dialogue on the design of the future labour and welfare management that has come both from the Labour Party and from the Progress Party here in this debate. With regard to the pursuit of an inclusive working life, we are totally dependent on a good interaction with the social partners. The stakes have three base pillars. It is the fight to reduce sick leave – we are very close to the port or the route in relation to the efforts made, and that is why work needs to be stepped up, not least employers need to take a greater share of responsibility in the fight against unsustainable long-term absence, which is increasing. As regards the inclusion of more disabled people in the labour market, the trend is positive. There have never been more disabled people in the workplace than it is now. With regard to the inclusion of older workers, we still have a good way to go again, but there are studies that suggest that older workers have become more attractive in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1419	In the Common Era, the Government says that the main basis for value creation is high participation in the labour market. It is also said that one will drop more people into the workplace, reduce sick leave and strengthen work to facilitate a more inclusive working life. These are objectives that SV share. Norwegian municipalities may be the country's largest job and employer. The reports from there by day are particularly worrying. The NRK Østfold says on 1 September that in all the large municipalities in Østfold, sick leave rises. It's now over 11 pst. From Telemark and other parts of the country, employment stops and redundancy in Norwegian municipalities are reported almost daily due to lack of money. I agree with the Council of State that the public sector alone cannot solve the problems of high unemployment and high sick leave. Does the Council of State at all believe that it is possible to achieve these objectives without giving Norwegian municipalities a strong and long-term financial boost?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1429	Public sector sick leave is a major challenge, but it is too simple, as the representative Molvik here suggests, to say that only public budgets are being increased, sick leave is falling. It's just to go back a little bit in history and see how sick leave has evolved in periods when we've increased public budgets, which we've also done quite a lot in terms of the municipal budgets for the current year. I think you have to put the jobseeker's responsibilities on the individual job when it comes to reducing sick leave. There's a big difference between the municipalities. There are differences between municipalities as employers in how to follow up this work. There are municipalities that passively deal with this and almost budget the sick pay from the social security office as something that will ultimately save the municipal accounts. And then there are municipalities that are actively involved with measures in collaboration with the employment centres, as they are going to do under the IA agreement. We have to make sure that the good municipalities become more, so that they can learn from each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1434	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1437	The effects of the policy pursued by a right-wing-dominated government are now evident. 1,500 children in Bergen have completed their school leave because of an increase in the cost, which was 40 p.m. the last year. The payment for a place is about NOK 2000 per person. month. This is a lot of parents who can't do it. Right, who also controls Bergen, gets an impact on his vision. They think it's not a public task to give money to the school leisure system. What is sad is that the Christian People's Party and the Left are also involved in reducing this important provision for children. Reductions in school leave arrangements are included in a series of cuts that local authorities must make because this government does not allow enough money for municipalities. There is a record high deficit in the local government sector of over 13 billion dollars. The Labour Party has proposed to increase the free income of municipalities by DKK 3 to 4 billion in addition to the Government's proposal for the next year. This had solved many of the problems that Kommune-Noreg faces when it comes to education, childcare and care for the young and the elderly. We are many who have started our community exposure with voluntary work and hard work. I was one of those people who started both playrooms and kindergartens for my kids over 30 years ago. The goal was that when the next generation of parents were going to work, they would be safe for their children while they were at work. So securing enough nursery places was important. Optionality is important, says Lilletun and the Prime Minister. Yes, I'm going to promise that there is no alternative when young children's parents who are on the waiting list for their children's kindergarten are in the hands of 200 to 300 others. There are over 16 000 children's playgrounds missing to get full coverage. Work for everyone who wants it is important for the individual, and it is important for the creation of value in our country. The unemployment rate is still too high, and many take-offs are required to get it down. In the agreement on the current year's budget, the Labour Party received several figures for nearly 900 million. to measures to create new jobs. In the revised national budget, the government cut off many of these millions of dollars, but luckily, we got that most of it straight. So the Labour Party filled the toolbox to the Minister of Industry, who has known to complain that she was empty. Because we don't need neutral industrial policy, we need an active industrial policy, and that's what the Labour Party will do. In the revised 2003 national budget last year, this increase was set to enable the Government to continue building four-five gas ferries, because it was important that one could develop that technology in Norway, acquire that competence in Norway and export competences. In addition, more money was given to research and development contracts, which were important for doing this work. I don't know what the end of history is, but I sincerely hope that the Government will do its job to be active in this policy too, to develop competences that we can export and benefit from further. Yesterday we heard that now will approx. 80,000 jobs are being flagged out in the coming years. It is quite serious when we hear about the number of people who have moved out in the last few years, how many people want to move out jobs to get cheaper labour. An active enterprise policy is therefore essential, so that the different industries do not want to move out. We also heard last week that two ferry teams in the West are about to fly out. It's related to the net pay scheme, which the government wouldn't agree with for those who don't have strips and stuff on their sleeves. When it comes to ordinary seafarers, more than 2,000 jobs can be afraid if they do something to get the same conditions as one in the countries with which they can and should compete. It is important to take care of the jobs you have. It is important to create new jobs. An active industrial policy is therefore extremely important.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1452	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1455	On the right is concerned with the relationship between value creation and well-being. We actually believe that it is the party that has the best policy for value creation that will also have the best welfare policy. Values must be earned before they can be distributed. The representative of Frøiland was in the threat picture, that 80 000 jobs could be outsourced in the next five years, as the MMI survey published yesterday showed. But does the representative of Frøiland see something that can work better in relation to the framework conditions under which business is working than a level of taxation that is in line with the countries around us, and a public sector that is governed so that it does not lead to a wage pressure, interest rate jump and a high dollar rate? Does the representative of Frøiland see any other action that could work better than the measures that this government has taken and that results both in terms of production growth and in terms of employment growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1462	It is absolutely necessary to see the link between value creation and well-being. There I actually mean that the Labour Party is the best – I should not be surprised if the representative realized that it was what I thought. And it's important that we create the values before we distribute them. When it comes to the deflagration of jobs, I have to say that I see it with great concern, and it is clear that we are forced to have an active industrial policy, not a business-neutral policy, as Right has always stood for. The Labour Party has been in part of the tax credits that businesses have received, because it is absolutely right that we have to have the same framework conditions as those we compete with outside. But it also applies, for example. what I mention about the net pay arrangements for seafarers, because they have not been given the same framework as they are competing with. So one has to be consistent here and think about the whole thing when it's about businesses. The level of taxation in which the Government now has the law, that is the Labour Party disagrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1469	The representative of Frøiland is busy working for everyone, and it's also the Progress Party. She's also busy having a more active industrial policy, and it's also the Progress Party. But the representative Frøiland and the Labour Party are not busy bringing down the tax and tax levels in Norway, and there is a disagreement between the Progress Party. Now, the global audit and advisory firm Ernst & Young has also stated that Norway is among the countries in the world with the highest tax rate. It also shows that while competitors have reduced taxes, the tax burden has increased over the last four years in Norway by about a quarter. 1 pst. This is mainly due to the tax sharpness that the Labour Party came into existence at the end of its reign. My question is: does this not show that there is a need for general tax relief to improve the framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1478	An active industrial policy is important. As we have said here before today, the Labour Party has participated in some of the tax havens. But the $12 billion in tax bills that the government has proposed in the tax notice, plus $4 billion in addition, doesn't think the Labour Party is necessary. We can compare with countries in the Nordic region when it's indebted to tax levels. The employer’s fee in Sweden is above 32 p.m. She's not in the vicinity of what she's in Norway. So I think it's going to be a good idea to compare with the different countries in the Nordic region, even when it's about fiscal policy. But it is important to have framework conditions that are manageable, and it has been the Workers' Party's concern when it comes to industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1483	The representative of Frøiland began his speech by referring to the SFO prices in Bergen and how the appropriations over the year through this government have been reduced — and that is correct. This government actually believes that the SFO should be a kind of voluntary offer for children that you have to pay the entire cost of yourself, and that mother and father, probably mother, are at home and accept the pod when he comes home from his four hours at school. That's not the reality. But my challenge to Frøiland is this: we want to agree that we need to strengthen the SFO offer financially through state contributions that ensure that there is quality in this. But the SFO offer as such has no quality requirements whatsoever. As the modern family pattern is designed, most children will be part of the SFO. That means that when the economy is bad, there are too many children in too few square meters, often with poor air, often with poorly organized everyday life, which makes the kids get home stressed, and which makes them unable to get calm today, which actually consists of a little education and a little SFO. My challenge to Frøiland is: Will she agree that it would be right to get different quality requirements into the SFO, since our children have to go there, and since our lives are actually so arranged in 2004?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1490	I'm afraid that if there's no new government until next year, we don't have any public SFO to discuss. It is important that we take care of and spend more money on the school leisure system in the municipalities. SFOs have recently been greatly reduced when it comes to quality, even more dramatically reduced because a hard time getting money into the school leisure system. But I want to agree with the representative of Djupedal that it is important also to set requirements on the quality that should be there, because it should not only be a storage place. It is important that children have the opportunity to learn, but not least to play, when they are there, and that there is growing-up help that is proportionate to the number of young people. But the most important thing now is to increase the permissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1497	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1501	For the government's part, the relationship between increased value creation and increased well-being is very clear. That's why we're very happy to see the light and the optimism that we've got in the business world. Orders are increasingly coming to our companies in competition with foreign companies. We're getting more and more new jobs, and we're getting an increase in employment. However, this has not come about by itself. There is no reason to conceal or question that the government's policy of getting lower taxes, lower interest rates and a more favourable dollar price has been strongly involved in the positive developments we see today. After the government change, we have reversed a negative trend, but we must never imagine that the job is done once and for all. We must continue with the policy that we now see starting to work after three years. This also applies to the transport sector. There we have also been able to reverse a long-term negative trend, which we have had over a long time, in the loops. Let's look at the permissions, for example. in the road sector, we have an annual increase of almost 2 billion kroner only on the national roads over the last three years compared to the last budget adopted by the Labour Party. We have been given greater privileges in the rail sector, and we have been given increased privileges, lower taxes and charges, and more competition in the aviation sector. But there's not just extra permissions that have given us a positive development. In addition to investing, in spite of a tight policy in general, on these important social areas, we have had the courage to change old solutions to ensure new welfare. We have done this in the road sector, we have done this in the aviation sector, and we have done this in the railway sector. If we take as an example the road sector, which is one of the areas where we are the farthest, alongside aviation and price and competition there, we have made a lot of changes, and we are about to make even more changes here. We have simplified and streamlined the administration of the state road system, and we have established Mesta as a stand-alone company, which can compete freely with private companies. So the question is, how interesting is this for most people? Yeah, that's very interesting, because this means that we get more out of every heads we use in the road sector. Optimistic forces in the entrepreneurial sector said before we started this, that we'll be able to get a conversion gain of about 30 pst. Let's take a little bit less in and say that we can realize 20 pst. We have no problem with that. And let's do a little thought experiment on numbers. We spend about 20 billion dollars a year on the road in Norway today. We spend $12 billion on highways, about $3 billion on county roads, and about $4 billion on municipal roads. Let's say we can manage an annual savings of about 20 pst. Of these 20 billion kroner. Then it's a relatively simple calculation to say that we can manage to get 4 billion dollars a year off to increase bets only on the road sector. When we know that there is equal potential in other sectors as well, we know that we are on the right track, we know that we need to work on this. We already see the results a little bit, but this is going to be fun for people and for Transport Norway for many, many years to come. We want to continue with this policy, and we're going to do that as long as we have multiple numbers in Stortinget for it. That's what I hope to be for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1516	The central party wants a new political course. We want equal conditions, equal opportunities for development across the country. Let me mention three examples: an offensive district policy, a strengthened local economy, the fight against and the removal of the increasing poverty we are now seeing. It is crucial for both city and country with an active district policy, with a district policy based on the knowledge, competence and rich resources of the many living communities across the country. Better communications are a requirement. Offshore, fisheries, the maritime sector as well as other economic activities — better accessibility is crucial to the preservation of today’s jobs and to the creation of new ones. The wheel pressure on many paths has to be expanded, not reduced. Ferry capacity and regularity must be increased, not reduced. Too many hours today – along our entire coast – to wait for a ferry, because it rarely goes. I must say that I am very surprised that the leader of the Committee on Transport can stand here and be so pleased with a government that is 3 billion kroner behind what is agreed in the Stortning when it comes to the National Transport Plan, as if there were no important area in the road and ferries to put more effort into. The center party thinks we should take advice on a worthy care and a good and free school. We are deeply disunity with today's Right-dominated Government, which believes tax relief to those of us who have the most, is more important than reinforced bets on good local welfare. If the elderly and others are to experience the security that the Prime Minister is talking about today, children and young people must experience a safe and good school where the individual is seen and included is a significantly strengthened municipal economy decisive. A lot of good services are being done in the municipalities today. We believe it is necessary to strengthen this important work. We want more nurses, carers and teachers. We want a multi-year escalation plan to correct the financial imbalances we are currently seeing in the municipalities. Tasks and revenues shall be consistent. The central party believes it is good that the government now announces the intensification of the fight against poverty. The efforts of the Government to facilitate international action have the support of the Centre Party. But we're far from happy with the way the government sets up the fight against poverty in Norway. While the Bondevik I government had five clear strategies: a softer workline, a more social housing policy, better public services, a more finmasked social security network and a more fair tax system, the Bondevik II government comes with some amazing answers. Better public services, which was therefore an important strategy, are met by a very weak community economy, which gives less room for local authorities to follow up their most difficult-to-use, whether we are talking about support education, care services or preventive work. The strategy for a more fine-tuning social security network is met with tougher masks, the entry-level rules for day money and sick pay are tighter, rerouting and rehabilitation have more urgent conditions, many have experienced increased possessions in many fields. The number of their story: several poor, several social welfare recipients. When it comes to the strategy of a fairer tax system, Bondevik II corresponds to a model with additional tax laws, where 10,5 billion dollars out of 16 would go to those who have the most of them. There is a need for a new policy approach, which focuses on the fight against poverty, so that the poorest are included, and which provides a basis for offensive district policies and good local welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1531	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1534	The Labour Party and the Centre Party are united on many of the main political directions of this election period. We are united in strengthening Community solutions; we are united in strengthening the local economy; we are united in the fight to bring down the great unemployment; and, not least, we are united in the fight against poverty, in order to identify some of the main areas. A few days ago, Aetat published its monthly report on labour market developments. The conclusion is clear that a tight community economy contributes to the continuing growth of unemployment in the areas of health, care and care. When it comes to strengthening the local economy, I expect the central party to support me, but the central party is not as tense as the Labour Party when it comes to strengthening the labour market measures. All research shows that labour market measures are useful and work well. Can we expect support from the Centre Party in strengthening the level of action page to curb unemployment and inactivity?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1543	It must be a little misleading that the Workers' Party almost presents it as if they've dragged the Centre party after them when it's up to strengthening the local economy. I have to say that I am very happy that the Workers' Party has strengthened the profile there, which we in the Center Party have done for a long time. I'm also very pleased that both the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have come together in the proposal for a stepping-up plan to go over several years to correct the financial imbalances that we are now seeing. Then it's right, as Upbebøen Hansen here puts it, that in our view, the Labour Party has been surprising one-sided in relation to its actions to secure more than one job, by running unilaterally at Aetat. For the Centre Party, it is important that a broad range of tools be provided, that small and medium-sized enterprises be stimulated, that transport be strengthened, and that many other measures, including labour market measures, be taken to ensure more work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1552	Let me first say that I register the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa's outcome against the local economy and her description of her misery of what is happening now. If you remember 1998 and 1999, it was a local government minister from the Central Party and a negative real growth in the local economy, as the only time since 1995. Enough about that. The center party seems to be able to solve everything with more money. More money seems to be the mantra of the Center Party in terms of what is to be solved, and what is wrong. But the centre party knows the consequences of increased public money use and excessive public money use. We see that inflation went into the weather when the Senter party last sat in government, and it was a bitter experience for many, especially for people with loans. How much does the Central Party want the bill to be for all those who have loans today? Has the Center Party learned, or do they want tax incentives?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1561	I do not stop wondering about representatives, perhaps especially from the younger garden, who are so busy with what happened in 1998 and 1999, both in terms of the local economy and other tasks. Let me remind you that today there are children in this country who need a much better school, there are many young people who need a broader offer before continuing school, and there are many older people who need better care. There is actually something that matches tasks and means to do. Local authorities have been given additional tasks and therefore need more resources, and this is what the Centre Party will fight for in the future. So the current government represents a completely different relationship between the public and private sectors. For the centre party, it is important to strengthen the community. We now see the sequence of all of these billions in tax squares that Right doesn't hesitate to go in for, and that leads to a society of greater differences and less solidarity. Such a society will not go for the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1570	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa from the Center Party said that she would have a significantly strengthened municipal economy, and that is not new words from that edge. The Progress Party believes that strong Norwegian business and competitive jobs are one of the key prerequisites for better financing of the municipal sector and the welfare of Norway. In this way, most agree that the EEA Agreement is a very important prerequisite for ensuring the necessary framework conditions for Norwegian working life and for maintaining a high level of value creation in Norway. The centre party has previously proposed to terminate the EEA Agreement, which will weaken the basis for jobs, value creation, and thus also the possibilities for more money for the local government sector. For the Center Party, it is impossible to believe that the value creation is weakened by getting more money. So how does it relate to the fact that the Central Party will provide many billion more to public and municipal activities while dramatically weakening the basis for private sector employment and value creation by Norway terminating the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1577	In fact, the Central Party believes that international agreements are important both before trade and in other areas. But we do not think we are alone in believing that the EEA Agreement has become much more extensive and has put much more binding on Norway than it was produced when the EEA Agreement was signed. We've got a lot of things to do. briefed us about the agreements Switzerland has. We see that it is possible with other agreements as alternatives. Then I have to wonder about the Progress Party, which here presents it as irresponsible to give more money to the municipalities. Is there not a proposal here for an extra DKK 2.5 billion to the municipalities already this year, a proposal for which the Central Party has previously been called? Here's something that's not right. We were pleased that the Progress Party is presenting this proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1589	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1593	So far, I have not recorded that someone has taken the floor, neither in terms of the languages of the throne nor the debate today, it concerning the violent debate of the last few days about the consequences of this government's immigration and integration policy. I also noted that the Prime Minister, through his 20 minutes, did not devote a small sentence to the problem area that has arisen in the wake of the liberal immigration and integration policies of the Bondevik I Government and the Bondevik II Government. I think it takes a little attention. I think that the Stortinget should focus more on the fact that we are now in the process of moving towards a new sub-class in Norway. The Prime Minister, and especially the Christian People's Party, should have been absolutely concerned that they are now indirectly creating a sub-class that is being thrown into the streets of society – in Norway. This is so far not dedicated to a single word by any of the government parties. The only thing I'm recording is that the Government, and in particular the Council of State from the Ministry of Local Affairs, Erna Solberg, has focused on, is that it's a little proud that it's halved the number of asylum arrivals this year. With respect to reporting; of course, it is positive, but if one measures the reduction in the number of asylum entries against what has been averaged in the last five to six years, it is actually not that much to boast of. If we end up at 10,000 this year, that's four times the reduction in asylum in 1997. The time period for processing asylum applications remained at 232 days per year. June of this year, as this government of course knows the consequences of: Human beings are given false hopes by sitting in reception around the whole country. Families with young children remain for years in reception in the hope that they will eventually be given a stay in Norway. This is an entirely unsustainable situation. We have now witnessed, something that the Progress Party was skeptical about, that we have taken food and lodging from those who finally got their application rejected; they were to be put on the street. Now we see the result of that as well. In fact, some municipalities feel so much responsibility that they should use their own municipal funds to provide food and lodging for these people. In this respect, the Party of Progress has been fully aware that, when the consequences become such, the State should assume financial responsibility and those who have been definitively refused should preferably be placed in a closed transit facility until the shipment takes place. I see that the government, and especially the councillor Erna Solberg, has been involved in the idea, but it's very diffuse, what comes out of it. And so on and on and on and on and on and on. 14 300 people were in reception this year and were waiting for their application to be dealt with. More than 4000 of them have received a final rejection, and 3,000 are waiting to be settled in the municipalities. The government does not intend to focus on this at all, it looks like, and in a situation where we can read from UDI statistics that we still get more and more asylum seekers with false identity, more and more asylum seekers with false explanations, more and more asylum seekers with criminal backgrounds, more and more asylum seekers who initially want to take advantage of the Norwegian community, and more and more asylum seekers with other false elements. All of this will, of course, be at the expense of all those people who really need protection and help in Norway – who in the first six months of this year accounted for approx. 2 pst. by all asylum seekers. Now it is time that this government also saw the influx of asylum, immigration in general, into Norway in the context of the job it has to do in relation to integration. It is not enough to lean back, even though from 1 September this year we got an introduction system for which the municipalities will be responsible. We still need to focus more on the challenges that exist, but at the same time we cannot forget the new and strong challenges that come through a liberal influx of asylum into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1610	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1613	The representative Sandberg is often a person of the big words. On a case-by-case basis, here in the Chamber, he has made strong criticisms of the Government because it is spending too little on well-being around our municipalities, and he has been harshly criticising the government's proposals with unreasonable distributional effects, because the differences between people and the welfare of the poor. This happened during the treatment of cases last year, and it has happened during the treatment of cases this year. In case of voting, the Progress Party has e.g. supports the Government's arrangements for the local economy next year and the arrangements for corporate tax. These are major and important issues, which have a lot to say about the welfare supply around our country. So we see that there is a difference between life and learning in the Progress Party. Can we expect a new course from the Sandberg and the Progress Party, where one will secure enough money for the welfare of children, young people and the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1620	If the Labour Party really wants sufficient resources for care for the elderly, health, children and young people, it is very simple. Then it's just to join the main arrangement of the Progress Party – we want the state 100 pst. will finance all these tasks – instead of doing as the Labour Party has done and wants to strengthen: to spread funds across the municipal sector without hitting where they are going. That's the result. The reply to the representative Sandal is interesting, because we have been sitting together in the municipal committee for three years now. If he has not registered that the Progress Party has really taken responsibility for the local government sector, we would like to have a longer debate on that. But the Progress Party has actually deviated from its own principle in relation to the financing of Kommune-Norway, simply because we have seen that there is a lack of funding. And there is also a proposal on the table here today, which is exactly where the Progress Party really takes responsibility. We want to compensate the municipalities with up to SEK 1.5 billion in the current year's budget. It might be interesting to see how the Workers' Party votes today in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1627	It is commendable that some in the United Kingdom are concerned with a good integration policy. The only concrete contribution of the Progress Party to this debate is the proposal made by Carl I. Hagen early this morning, who asks the Government to introduce so-called closed receptions, or closed receptions. There is in itself a little paradoxical use of ‘closed reception’ – it must be a little difficult to get in, I think. But apart from just the artificial in language, there's not a single word about how to imagine these institutions going to look. I'm going to assume that the point is that they're going to have the same function as the prison system, and that you're going to imagine that it's going to operate roughly the same way as the prison system. But it's reasonably congested from before, so it'll be interesting to hear how the Progress Party actually imagines this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1632	The Representative for Wage always tries, on behalf of the Government, on behalf of himself and not least on behalf of the Right, to use irony to waive responsibility. It's a repetition, and that's why we have the situation that we have today: there are over 4,000 people who have been finally denied reception, and who are largely a danger to themselves, a danger to those who work there, a danger to society, without the government wanting to take any responsibility for it. It should have been easy. If wages have not registered it, this government has actually opened for the first time the closed receipt. In spite of the decision taken at Stortinget, this government has done so. There are today hundreds of receptions around the country where exactly these 4,000 people who have been finally rejected actually live. And then it should be easy to impose restrictions in relation to movement in line with what has been done in Denmark to people who lack ID, who commit criminal acts, and who have finally been rejected and are going out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1637	After listening to the representative Sandberg, I am happy that the Progress Party is not in the Government, and I hope that that situation will never change. What I was going to say is the following: Norway is unfortunately again threatened by what seems to be an Al Qaida peak. The threat has been issued in the name of Islam and is justified by the US aggression that has shown and continues to show in Iraq, and the threat to Iran and Syria. Unfortunately, Norway is considered to be part of this aggression. In addition, it can be said that this may be related to the Western country's incisiveness to Israel's brutality against the Palestinian people. In this situation, the Norwegian nation needs to be united. SV is sure that Norwegian Muslims will show that they have unshakable loyalty to Norway and will reject any intention to harm their country. My question to the Progress Party is: Does the Progress Party agree that the time has come for the party to end its hacking on individual groups like Muslims, and rather works for the nation to stand together to defend the country in this difficult time?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1648	If the SV representative believes that the Progress Party is the only party that dares to settle and stand up to terrorists and people who use children and women in their struggle to dedemocratic the West, we will not end it. But if the representative from SV puts something else in it and accuses the Advance Party of harassing Muslims, it is completely wrong. We're never going to do that. I must be allowed to say that I am extremely pleased that the representative from SV went out on Saturday, together with the leader of the Muslim Council in Oslo, and actually supported the Progress Party in taking away from the terrorist threats that have come to Norway. For a long time, the Progress Party has called for moderate and secular Muslims in Norway to rise and make a settlement with fundamentalist groupings spreading across Europe. So we are very pleased with that, and we want a stronger and wider dialogue with these groupings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1655	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1658	This will be an exciting political year. After hearing the Prime Minister today, we know that the government's strategy will be to try to cast doubt on whether there is anyone other than him who is able to lead governments made up of multiple parties. It is a very strong wish of the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party to have a manageable alternative to the current Conservative Government. This will mean that we all have to take and give to get a common governance base. That the sitting government doesn't like the idea of this is something quite different than that we're not going to get it done. The Prime Minister also warned the opposition against being too negative when his government budget is presented in two days' time. However, showing political differences between civil and social democratic policies cannot be a blackprint. A government can never expect an opposition that does not object when the Government’s main governance document is presented. Because that's exactly what the government budget is. It's going to be exciting to see if the government is once again putting forward a budget that is further pushing the municipalities, which is increasingly weakening the resources of school and health. I hope it doesn't, but I fear the worst. In the year that has passed, we have all received feedback about an overly tight community economy, about key welfare systems that are threatened and dismantled, and about classes in schools that are growing even larger. I am convinced that the far too many unemployed, the many thousands of children in school and SFO and the many older people need and want a new course and a new majority. The ambition of the working party is clear: we want to get to this. Today, it may seem that there is a cross-political consensus that it is important to build our knowledge society. But when we start looking at the concrete actions, at least one thing is certain: at one point, the government has not done enough, namely, in relation to our common public school. Still, we have one of the shortest school days in Europe. We see that around the municipality of Norway there are many poor school buildings. We have a school leisure system that is becoming increasingly expensive and poorer, and we have class sizes that prevent adequate training. After three years, we can determine what some of us fear at the beginning, namely that the government has prioritised the emergence of private schools over the general public school. In the last six years, the number of public schools has been reduced by over 100, while we have received almost 50 new private schools. We see a development where the number of students per. Teacher has grown steadily this period of government. And we know that this government has no heart for the school leisure system. The subsidy has been greatly reduced, and only in Bergen has the price increased by 40 pst. the last year. The Labour Party believes that this is not a good education policy. A good education policy is about investing in public schools. It is about facilitating the conditions for smaller educational groups and getting to adapted training, but resources have to be available. In addition, there is a need for more teaching hours so that students can increase their skills in Norwegian, mathematics and languages. We also want our children to have more physical activity every day, and to offer homework to those students who need it most. But one more year of right-wing policy remains. Two days before the state budget is presented, I am concerned. I fear a development in which the Community solutions must give way to further tax relief for those of us who have the most already. I am afraid that the government is once again weakening the ability of the unemployed to return to work, and that they are once again trying to carry out unsocial cuts. We want to do what we can in opposition to work against this right turn. We need to develop our education system and get more people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-04.ana.ud935e1677	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
