ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e40	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e47	Several countries have experienced significant turbulence in relation to the organisation of their pension schemes. The Committee is pleased that the Norwegian rules on life assurance place great emphasis on the soundness and security of customers and that the obligations are fully funded and secured against reduction, except in cases where the customer chooses otherwise. The amendments to the insurance business law currently proposed, which are supported by a broad majority of the Committee, will lead to greater competition between life assurance companies, while at the same time increasing the transparency of the pricing of insurance products for customers. In the long term, this may lead to lower costs and higher returns for customers. The proposal leads to a clearer distinction between the assets of insured persons and those of companies, a clearer distribution of risks between customers and companies, the prior pricing of insurance products and the abolition of the requirement to keep life and fund insurance in separate companies. It was the main lines, so some details. The conversion of the pricing and profit model from today’s profit-sharing system to a pre-priced system is customer-friendly by making pricing more visible and making it easier to assess different offers against each other. Therefore, the majority do not support the ex post collection of parts of the premium, as the Progress Party calls for, since it will in reality be a form of partial profit-sharing and is contrary to the key principles of the new proposal. The companies calculate premiums on the basis of price rates. Of course, these can change. But questions have been raised about access to price regulation, with effect also for rights already acquired. In order to clarify, the majority has stated that if companies change the interest rate of calculation, only premiums for liabilities arising from the change shall be calculated on the basis of the new interest rate, i.e. that the rights already acquired have been paid with definitive effect and therefore cannot be changed afterwards. In order to increase competition, in particular in the freefall and other individual insurance markets, the majority – all with the exception of the Progress Party – have asked the Ministry to ensure that the rules on price regulation funds are designed so that they do not lead to the lock-in of customers and thus have a restrictive effect on the right to move. By making it easier to move, including: free policies, hope that the majority will achieve greater competition in the market, better customer follow-up and higher returns on pension capital. In the consultation round of the proposal, the credit supervision has proposed an alternative risk-sharing model. The aim of the model is to facilitate the investment of plan assets in more risky instruments, thus improving the possibility of higher returns over time. This will provide a larger range of products tailored to the needs of customers. The Ministry of Finance, after consulting the Banking Commission, has decided that such a model can be implemented within the framework of the legislative proposal, and that is the Committee's satisfaction. It is a challenge for companies to adapt to new legislation. The Committee has therefore assured itself that the Ministry will establish sensible transitional rules and provide companies with relatively liberal time limits for the introduction of the new regulatory rules. Finally, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left have, in their own comments, asked the Ministry to ask the Banking Commission to draw up rules for joint pension schemes for several undertakings. The government parties and the Progress Party see no reason to ask for this now, not least because there is no reason to detach it from the follow-up to the Pension Commission, a matter that is soon to come to the Stortinget, and, secondly, that both the Occupational Pensions Act and the Pensions Act are based on a structure in which individual enterprises decide whether or not to have a pension scheme for their employees. If a joint plan is opened, each enterprise loses influence over the plan. I'm not sure it's wise. The Progress Party also has a few different proposals, which I assume they themselves will explain. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e80	Through today's management of Ot.prp. No 74 on life insurance will give us a more modern law. This law regulates the design of both service pension schemes and individual pension schemes. There are many thousands of people who have such pension schemes, and that is why promises are important. Most of the legislative proposals have been as proposed by the Government, but in some respects I would say that through the committee's management we have improved, and here the case-speaker has our side and influence. That's what she's supposed to be for. Among other things, we have better regulation of the exchange-rate management fund and clarification of the rules governing the adjustment of the tariff. With the clarification of the rules on price changes, it is now quite clear that the possibility of price regulation does not apply to acquired rights and the obligations of the company to future provisions relating to the rights already acquired. The working party is busy strengthening the performance-based service pension schemes. The credit supervision has submitted a proposal for an alternative risk-sharing mechanism that companies and companies are required to enter into an agreement to use. The idea of the scheme is to facilitate that the company can take greater risks and thus get higher returns over time. There will again be an impact on the cost to businesses of providing a service pension, and therefore on the level of pension schemes that they can offer. The majority in the committee, where the Labour Party is involved, assumes that it is possible to develop the Credit Authority's system within the current law. However, there may be other changes to the promises, and we assume that the Government will come back with proposals for the necessary changes to enable the risk-sharing system to function properly. Once the new scheme has worked for a while, the Labour Party expects the Ministry of Finance to evaluate it and assess whether there is a need to further develop the arrangements to strengthen the performance-based service pension schemes. With today's laws, it is not possible for more companies to create a common plan if they are not part of the same group. There is much to say that both pension funds and insurance companies should be able to offer common pension schemes to several enterprises. One reason is that it is more reasonable to manage large-scale pension schemes than small ones, and that small businesses may thus tend to merge. Another reason is that, with joint arrangements for several companies in the same industry, they will be able to add to change jobs, to keep up their membership of the pension scheme. As a result, individual pension rights will become more transparent and the link between salary and pension will become clearer. A third reason is that large joint schemes facilitate gender- and age-neutral contributions. The Ministry of Finance has asked the Banking Law Commission to assess whether it should be opened up for intermunicipal pension funds and joint pension funds for several private sector enterprises. However, in a letter to the Banking Law Commission dated 23 September, the Ministry limits its mandate to indemnify only inter-municipal pension funds. The background to this is that questions have been raised about the mandate given, opening up to assess common pension schemes for individual occupational groups or areas of employment, contrary to a main requirement of the Entrepreneurship Act and the Pensions Act that a pension scheme should mainly cover all contributors. The Labour Party and SV want the Banking Law Commission to assess common pension schemes for several enterprises also in the private sector and have asked the Government to give this mandate to the Banking Law Commission. We believe that it is possible to create pension schemes that cover several companies, without breaking the principle that everyone in the enterprise should be a member of the same pension scheme. Unfortunately, we did not get the majority on this proposal. It is a pity, especially given that the Government has warned that one of the big messages about the follow-up to the Pension Commission, which will be presented later in the fall, will suggest establishing pensions in working conditions for those who do not already have it. I heard the case spokesman argue against such a proposal. The most important thing for us would be to get the Banking Act Commission to evaluate and sort this out, and then we can come back to the contents of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e103	The Progress Party agrees that the proposals in the proposal will lead to the modernisation of legislation and facilitate better competition. That's good. The Progress Party itself believes that we saw a number of improvements which are unfortunate that the Committee did not see the importance of, and for which we unfortunately did not get a majority either. The party agrees that setting prices in advance is important in order for the customer to be able to assess the companies against each other in competition. But a healthy competition does not depend on the full price of management being charged in advance, as long as the customer can easily assess what the price is. Under e.g. various results of the return we believe that the customer has a good enough basis for decision-making. The progress of my returns on the company is important to the customers, because it makes a direct contribution to the financing of the pension costs. Kundane therefore has an interest that the companies have as good incentives as possible to achieve good returns. In addition to a fixed amount charged in advance, the price could also have contained an element related to any additional return over and above the interest rate. This would have given the companies extra motivation to get good returns. Such a price for administration would be easy to understand for customers. As long as the rate is fixed in advance, such a form of pricing would provide good diligence and not least a favourable pension savings. It is particularly important for customers that they manage their pension funds in a long-term and good way. The current rules and the proposal to legislate that additional provisions cannot be used to cover negative returns may prevent reasonable long-term management. The credit supervision has also pointed this out. The score is particularly relevant in view of today's low interest rate. The distribution of risks between companies and customers is not affected to the benefit of the customer by limiting the use of additional provisions. The consequence of limiting the use of additional provisions would be primarily that the company would be forced to limit its risk by other means. This means, in practice, that they adjust the management of their clients’ assets so that in the short term they avoid negative returns that expose the equity to cover the interest rate guarantee. All companies, including life insurance companies, will at any time seek to align themselves so that their capital is not lost. A negative return of 1-2 percentage points that must be covered by equity means that between 25 pst. and 50 pst. the property is lost in such a case. The company will then place the funds differently than if the customer's long-term returns were the only consideration. The company will tend to buy axles expensive and sell cheaply. Obviously, this does not provide the best possible return on individual pension funds. There are future pensioners who primarily lose through lower long-term returns, as a result of which additional provisions cannot be used through negative returns. That's why the Progress Party proposed a change in this area, and we weren't alone. Both the NHO, the LO, the Credit Authority, the Bank of Norway, the Pension Fund Association and the FNH have stated that such a change would be of interest to customers. In the light of this, I will finally bring up the Progress Party's proposals from the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e124	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e127	I would like to begin by commending the case manager for handling this matter. It's not easily available material that we've been working on, and I think she's had the committee with her in the work she's done, and that's made one now clearer, something easier to understand, hopefully. In other words, some of the suggestions that we got feedback on have been corrected in a number of ways. It is important that the setting we provide is to understand in one way, and that has the case-speaker and the committee clearly. The proposal therefore provides for a clearer distinction between the insurance funds and the assets of the companies, so that there is a clearer and clearer distribution of risk between the customer and the company. The price of the life insurance product becomes more transparent and transparent, which is very important for the individual enterprise or person to be able to comply with the insurance. The Norwegian life insurance company manages a total of over DKK 400 billion. They manage more than 50 billion dollars related to an estimated 600 000 free police officers under the Enterprise Pensions Act. Modernising the legislation now, as proposed by the proposal, is therefore important for many, although it is a challenge to publicise the content of this modernisation. In recent times, many countries have experienced concerns about the organisation of pension systems, as was the case with the case-leader. Unfortunately, we have seen that many places are the customers who have lost. SV is therefore very satisfied that the Norwegian rules place great emphasis on the soundness and security of customers' claims for future pensions. Insurance corporations shall be fully funded and their clients shall be hedged against a reduction, except where the client himself has opted for an investment portfolio without a guarantee. For this reason, we also support the proposal that additional provisions in companies should only be used to cover the lack of positive returns. Several hearing bodies, and the Progress Party, want additional provisions to be able to cover negative returns. We think it will lead to a stronger protection of the company's responsible capital and will give an undesirable favor to the company at the expense of the customers. So let's see which side the Progress Party is doing well in this equation. One thing that the Committee has spent time on is the rules on changing tariff options. We were told that the rules were not understood clearly, and that it was uncertain whether access to price regulation would also apply to accrued rights and the obligations that the company has for the future assigned to such accrued rights, for which a full premium has already been paid after today's rules. The majority of the Committee makes it very clear that this is not going to happen. If the company changes the interest rate, only premiums on liabilities arising from the change shall be calculated on the basis of the new interest rate. Premiums linked to rights already processed have been paid with an ultimate effect and therefore cannot be changed afterwards. As the representative of Frøiland was involved, the SV and the Labour Party have taken advantage of the proposal to point out the possibility of setting up pension schemes that cover more enterprises, without breaking the principle that all members of a company should be members of the same pension fund. There is increased mobility in the labour market, and for workers it is a disadvantage to change jobs within the private sector and between the public and private sectors in relation to acquired pension rights. Common arrangements for several enterprises in the same industry will allow the employee to maintain his or her membership of the pension scheme. Individual pension rights will also be more transparent, and the link between wages and pensions will be clearer. We would like the Banking Act Commission to have been mandated to make arrangements for pension funds and life insurance companies to set up joint pension schemes in several companies. We just got to admit that we didn't get multiples this time. But that can change!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e144	The main objective of this case is to modernise the legislation on life assurance, so that there is a clearer distinction between policyholders' assets and their assets, a clearer distribution of risks between customers and companies and a more transparent pricing of life insurance products. This is in itself important with regard to the relationship between the customer and the company. However, it is also important for competition in the life insurance market. The Government's proposals are largely in line with the proposals of the Banking Law Commission, with adjustments made after the calls made in the hearing. Today's Norwegian rules place great emphasis on the soundness and security of the customer's demands for future pensions. The law that takes care of this purpose is not weighted. One important point in this matter is that in the future, life companies have to base themselves on the prepayment of the management job. It will provide a greater degree of transparency, control capacity and market competitiveness. All in all, the Christian People's Party's assessment of the present proposals is that they will expose policyholders to their interests, at the same time as they will also create cleaner conditions for the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e159	This is a broad approach to the Government's proposals, with some clarifications on some points, which have taken place in consultation with the Ministry. I am therefore not going to go into detail on individual parts, but I would like to refer to the statements made by the rapporteur and, for that matter, to the following articles, which support the majority view. I would just like to comment on one question, the question of asking the Banking Law Commission for a new investigation into increased access to apply for established pension schemes between different companies. So today there's such a right within a group. It was said by the representative of Grande Røys that things can change – yes – but the question was not up as late as when the revision of the law on occupational retirement provision was dealt with in Stortinget. And I have to admit, I can't quite see what has changed dramatically since then. It is important that enterprises have an influence over their pension scheme. Enterprises may develop differently and, of course, it may lead to difficult situations where pension expenditure is also increasing in enterprises that are struggling economically. I am a strong supporter of the employee’s increased ability to move – mobility – and I am pleased that it is now so strongly underlined by SV. It is clear that we are going to see increased mobility also in the workplace, but if established pension schemes are going to manage mobility, I am somewhat more in doubt. It is a little difficult to imagine capturing the future jobs of current workers by establishing joint pension schemes, so the value of it in that context I allow myself to doubt something. And if you think about establishing joint arrangements for employees, there will be a significant management problem in relation to the payment that the employer in this company will also have to pay. But most importantly, I think in many ways is the question of a pension reform that will clarify what kind of supplementary pension scheme – for which the social partners have asked – the size will go in. In the pension message presented in the autumn, we will outline different plans, so that the Storting will have the opportunity to choose between completed and completed models on the road. It is clear that the choice of models is important to have in place before any mandate to the Banking Law Commission to look at changes to current legislation can be designed, simply or not. We need to know what to use before asking the Banking Act Commission to investigate changes to the deposit pension law, defined benefit pension, in different versions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e170	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e173	It was the contributions of the Progress Party that led me to take the floor, because the Progress Party has proposed to change the current law, so that the additional provisions of the companies can also cover losses in returns. It's a good suggestion for the companies, but not for the customers. The proposal will therefore entail an undesirable favouring of the company and its owners at the expense of its customers. We don't agree with that, and I'm a little surprised at the Progress Party at this point. We must remember that the additional provisions are included as part of the insurance fund and the sum of the premium reserves and additional provisions must not be reduced by any other means than through payment to customers. The additional provisions are also non-taxable, in contrast to the company's own funds. So a prerequisite for the favourable tax treatment of additional provisions is that they do not take over the role of the company's own funds. The proposals of the Progress Party will do so, and it is clearly a company-driven proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e183	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e191	The Odelstinget is then ready to vote in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e198	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward proposals Nos. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e457	There is a proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party to the first paragraph, the new fourth sentence. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The fourth sentence of the first paragraph of Section 8a-9 of the Insurance Act is replaced by the following:The company may deduct up to 10 pst. the return or yield in addition to any guaranteed minimum return attributed to the contract.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e638	To the third subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The third paragraph of Sections 8a to 17 of the Insurance Act shall be replaced by the following:If the return assigned to a contract under the first paragraph of Section 8a to the first paragraph of Section 9 for a year is not large enough to meet the annual provision requirement under the third paragraph of Section 8a to the 16th paragraph, the provision may be met by the transfer of additional provisions assigned to the contract. Additional provisions may also be used to cover losses in the return assigned to a contract.’;» [[negative returns]] In addition, the Party has notified that it will vote against the second sentence of the fourth paragraph. An alternative is to vote between the third paragraph of the motion for a resolution and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e659	I voted wrong. I should have voted for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e666	The setting was accepted by 61 votes to 12. It is then voted over the fourth paragraph, the second sentence, which is opposed by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e680	It shall be added to the other paragraphs and to the sentence of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e822	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-10-28-lower.ana.ud2201e832	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
