ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e32	I must first be allowed to congratulate the new Council of State on the appointment! Today, it's not about girls' right to put out front the biggest jumpers, but about how we can get more of them up and up – almost to say – to stay up at the top of the hierarchy. The theme is women and top management positions in the state. The state is, whether it will or not, an exhibition window for the rest of society, also in terms of equality. Therefore, it has a special responsibility for providing leadership positions to women and minority groups. The state must go ahead and show way. For many years, there has been a focus on the state's ability to live in this area. Five years have passed since the representative Sonja Sjøli addressed this issue in an interpellation in the Stortinget. It's right to say that a good part has happened since, but just as fully there's also a good piece left until we can say satisfied. Various governments have launched projects and implemented programmes, where efforts have been made to stimulate women to seek senior management positions. The current government, the Cooperation Government, has set itself the goal of reaching a share of 40 pst. women in state-leading positions by 2006. This objective is good and is full of excitement, and it should be most achievable with the high level of education and competence that we currently have among Norwegian women. And since there are now well two years left until the goal is to be achieved, it's a natural time to ask some immediate question: what's the status today? How are we in relation to the objective? Are we going in the right direction? Is it fast enough? And what does the government do, i.e. what measures has it taken to ensure the achievement of the objectives? All experience shows that the objective of equality between men and women, whether public or private, needs to be kept under pressure in order to achieve goals. It is gratifying to note that the proportion of women in government management positions has increased steadily in recent years. According to a notice in the newspaper on 4 February, it was approx. 28 pst. in 2002. There's a piece left to 40 pst, but there's still a time left until June 2006, and we're on the right track. Nevertheless, the figures shown in that headline show that there is not only a bias between women and men in senior management positions in the country, but also another bias is detected. Still, there is a falling proportion of women the higher up in the job hierarchy we come. Overall, the proportion of women is increasing, and the greatest increase is for the lower management positions on the payroll scale. But among the leaders of the state that are subject to the most lucrative pay scheme, namely the government's executive pay scheme, the proportion of women is only 20 pst. We can't say we're satisfied with that. In many areas, however, the State can be proudly highlighted as an exhibition window for gender equality policy. Yes, in some areas the situation is almost impressive. For example, this gender representation in the boards of state-owned agencies applies. There was the women's share last year for a total of 45.7 p.m. Compared with the situation in the private sector, where the situation is highly worrying, this is a very welcome figure. But there's no reason to rest on the laurels, because the attitudes in general in society are not that positive at all, on the contrary. Studies published in Today's Business yesterday, 8 March, say that over half, i.e. 52 pst. by the asked managers of 1 900 small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), it reveals that the company is not working to ensure a level playing field in the board of directors. And the whole 42 pst. says the company has no women on the board. Gender distribution in corporate governance is outside our theme today, but this clearly shows that it needs to be stronger. When it is the State that has responsibility and manages gender equality policy, it must first sweep at its own door. A woman's share of 20 pst. in top management jobs may not be so bad in relation to the private sector, but if we are talking about equality and democracy, we cannot settle down. Equality Ombudsman Kristin Mile expresses his disappointment at these figures in the statement in the newspaper on 4 February and believes it says something about the governance structure of the public sector. Kristin Mile says: ‘From the dispatch manager up and down, there may still be a reasonable degree of human domination. Nor do you always encourage women to apply for the posts.’ The male dominance of public top management positions must be considered to be a consequence of the kind of management that has been exercised over the years. You probably like equality best and feel threatened by the idea of disagreements as a result of diversity in the leadership group. I would also like to remind you that the trade unions, through the representation of trustees in recruitment processes, have a great responsibility to contribute to equality and diversity. I dare say that the employees' representatives are not conscious enough of their responsibilities here either. The explanation that there are few women in the upper top level can probably be more. Some have shown that many women deliberately choose careers because they want more time for family, friends, and leisure. But trying to explain the biased gender distribution that women choose differently from men becomes a gross simplification, almost an explanation. Others have pointed out that management positions are too little adapted to women, who can feel more than men a commitment to home and family. The evening post wrote in the lead position on March 3: «... women with clear disabilities in the struggle for power in the public space. They have fewer role models and heavier homework.» So far the Evening Post. Here we are doubtful about an important point, which is not easy to dismiss. While it takes time to create new role models, it will at least be important to consider whether leadership positions can be designed so that they can be more easily combined with an active family life. In this context, organisation is a keyword. As an employer, the State should facilitate career development for employees at all stages of life, career plans which also include concrete assumptions that regulate overtime, home office opportunities, leave arrangements, margin calls, etc. If we are to achieve real equality in Norway, we must continue to work actively to create attitudes, not least towards those with recruitment responsibilities in the state. Maybe there's also a need to raise women's awareness. The women must think that it is possible to have a leading position, and they would have to. It is only in a truly equal society that it is possible to ensure diversity and democracy, and that men and women are given the opportunity to take joint responsibility for care tasks as well. But it seems that women's efforts at home are relatively stable, regardless of their activity outside the home. There is nothing to suggest that at present there is not a sufficient number of women who are well qualified and competent to enter leadership positions, regardless of level. It is an important democratic objective to have a balanced distribution of women and men in positions of power in politics, public administration and business. Society also needs the experience background of women. Complete and representative decisions require management of both women and men. It is important that this is not presented solely as a sex struggle. It is above all about ensuring quality and good decisions. Actively asking for a wider range of experience in management and governance in general, there will be a logical consequence for more women. Experience suggests that more women in the college expand the spectrum of opinions. They introduce new approaches to the debate, and the priorities will be slightly different. All the last governments have had a high profile for equality. Some time ago, the Stortinget adopted changes in the Gender Equality Act in which we committed ourselves to work for equality at all levels of society and the strengthening of the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sex. Recently, the Storting also imposed 40 pst on public limited-liability companies in the private sector. the proportion of women in the boards. Thus, when the State chooses to impose such stringent gender representation requirements on others in private enterprises, it must also ensure that this is reflected at the different levels of the public sector. It is therefore necessary to maintain a high level of pressure on equality in all State positions, not least in senior management positions, which are leading in more than one sense. What is the Council of State's assessment of the situation? What measures have been taken? How to follow up on measures taken to achieve the 40 p.m. target. women in general government management? What does the Council of State think is necessary to achieve this objective for the job categories that are at the very top of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e94	Then it's the President's pleasure to welcome Morten Andreas Meyer to the pulpit. Since the new Council of State debuted in a maritime case in the morning meeting, it may at the same time be appropriate to wish him good luck at all seas!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e97	Thank you for your warm welcome! Let me first say that I share what I see as a certain concern at the representative Lånke. I am also impatient and will keep that pressure Lånke asks me to keep. It is too slow to increase the proportion of women in senior management positions in the State sector. However, the last figures show that it is moving forward. Nearer 34 pst. by managers at all levels of the State are women. At the top level, however, the proportion is only 23.4 pst. That's why we have the big challenge. However, I would like to say in comparison that in the NHO area women only possess 7.4 pst. of the senior management positions, so that the state goes ahead. The target of 40 pst. women in senior management by 1 July 2006 have been allocated to the whole group of the approximately 9 500 different senior management positions in the State tariff area. Only 291 of these jobs belong to what we can call the top management level, which is part of the government's leadership pay system. We see the whole group of leaders together, the picture is far more uplifting than the headline in the newspaper would suggest. I will come back to this later. Increased value creation is one of the main political objectives of the Government. We therefore need an innovative public sector that can create the best solutions for citizens. Effective and good solutions require us to produce different talents and different perspectives. We need diversity. The government wants us to also get into the management of state businesses a much larger breadth, both in terms of age, gender, ethnicity, etc. If we do not manage to exploit the resource women represent in senior positions in the state, we miss out on significant values and lose some of the important innovation skills. Norway should have the best assumptions to make use of the resource represented by women. Fortunately, we have a professional participation among women who are among the highest in the world. The level of education among women is very high in us, and women have passed men in terms of participation in higher education institutions. In politics, for many years we have had strong, profiled women who have been important role models and inspirations for other women, and also for men. But we still have a long way to go to a representation of women in senior positions that reflects their total share of competence. We will address this challenge further. The existence of gender barriers that prevent capable women from reaching the top of the country results in both a loss for the state, which is not allowed to exploit these resources, and a loss for women who are thus not given full use of their abilities, talents and characteristics. Discovering and breaking down any barriers that still exist is therefore a job that needs to be done. The government's targets are set. By 1 July 2006 it shall be 40 pst. representation of both sexes in the senior management positions of the State. When, in 1997, the Ministry of Labour and Administration took the initiative for a four-year project, Women, Quality and Competence in the State, the aim was to increase the proportion of women in executive positions in the State from 22 to 30 p.m. by the end of 2001. At the end of the project, the proportion of women in senior management positions was close to 28 pst. In other words, it would have been a positive development, even though the goal was not fully achieved. The government subsequently decided to increase its target to 40 pst. representation of both sexes to senior management positions in the State sector by 1 July 2006. The figures we now have show – as I have mentioned – that development is moving in the right direction. The tempo could have been bigger, but the direction is right. While the proportion of women leaders in the state in 2002 was close to 28 p.m., it is today just below 34 p.m. This is an increase of 22 pst. in two years. If we continue at this pace, we will reach the Government's goal by 2006. However, there are wide variations between leadership levels and also between the different sectors of the State sector. 34 pst. Of all the middle managers in the country, it's only 23 pst. among the top conductors. If we only look at the departments, 41 pst is gone. of the middle managers here women, while the proportion of women in the top management group is close to 30 pst. It is uplifting that the group of female mediators in the country is increasing steadily. There is also the recruitment basis for the top managers. There is about here. 3 000 women who are already leaders, and it is obvious that among these talents, there are many who will be able to disguise the most important senior management positions in the state. This is precisely where the challenge lies — to increase the proportion of women in just top management positions, both because they are needed there, and because they will be important symbols for other women who want a leadership career in the country. The numbers show, as I said, that we're on the right track. We all have opportunities to achieve our goal. However, I do not believe that those results come without our continued attention to the objectives. It is essential for a good outcome that gender equality is anchored in each State sector and down in each activity. It is those who know the challenges and can put in place the right measures. My responsibility as a government employer is to monitor developments in this area in particular. In addition, the Ministry will support under its own efforts with appropriate measures and assistance. I would like to mention some of the most important measures. The way we recruit leadership positions in the state can matter if we get the best candidates, if we can attract the most capable women applicants. The Ministry of Labour and Administration has received research into different aspects of the recruitment process in the country and, as a result of these findings, in 2002 the Government adopted new guidelines for the procedures for the addition of top managers in the country. My department will now look at how to further improve the recruitment of top managers with a view to achieving the necessary diversity. The state has its own mentoring program for female leaders. Since it started in 1999, 107 women in total have implemented the programme. An evaluation shows that a majority of respondents were very satisfied with the programme and felt that it had given them the desire to assume greater management responsibilities. We will now carry out an evaluation of the latest programmes and assess whether the programme should be extended. The Ministry of Labour and Administration also supports a network and a meeting place for female intermediaries in the ministries. In order to stimulate government leaders to seek wider experience and thus qualify for further leadership careers, the Ministry has launched a pilot project to promote mobility among the heads of central government. The aim is to make it easier for managers to change the field of action and the administrative area. In this project, we will give priority to bringing women together and consider any measures that may stimulate them to address these challenges. A widely used argument from leaders in search of qualified women to rulers and executive positions was long that we have easy, but find no one who wants to take on a position, who will speak out, etc. In response to this, the Ministry of Labour and Administration established a database in 1999 in which women interested in new and major challenges could submit their CVs. Today, the database has 2,700 registered women. 63 pst. of the registered women, with steering experience, and 80 pst. has management experience. Today, Aetat, who manages the base, has developed it in the autumn of 2003 in terms of both design and user-friendliness. As a government employer, I want to closely monitor developments through various forms of reporting. These reports will also help to raise awareness among businesses of the objectives set. The Equality Act now contains requirements for both activity and reporting. Section 1a requires all enterprises to report on the situation of gender equality in their own activities. In the process of increasing the share of women in government management, we have set ambitious goals. We still have one more piece until we've reached our goal, 40 pst. But the numbers show that we're on the right track. In my opinion, we have good opportunities to succeed. It is a particular challenge to increase the proportion of women in senior management positions. We will therefore follow developments closely and have a close dialogue with businesses. Together with these, we will assess the need for further action and instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e139	Given the circumstances, the President felt it right to be a little liberal with the speaking times.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e142	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I can't say otherwise, when I hear his posts, but that the government is really in sight. Equality is becoming one of the most powerful cards of the Government, at my discretion. It has set in motion many measures, and it follows up many measures, partly including measures taken by previous governments – the right action is right. Especially interesting is that many women now report the level of middle management in the state. That means that there is a subforestation of competent leaders that can be eventually recruited upwards to the top divisions. Also, the Council of State said that gender equality must be anchored in the individual sectors, I think, is a very important point. The same applies to the focus on the recruitment processes mentioned here and under which it is important to go. I have also noticed that there will be new guidelines for these procedures during additions. It was also interesting to hear about this women’s database in this context. What I want to stop a little bit about, however, applies to the bias that I pointed out in my main post, because still it's just probably 20 pst. women in the top management positions. The Council of State was also concerned with this objective, 40 p.m. by 2006, in the first place, the entire Executive Board will have more than 9000 posts, i.e.: you think of an average. As far as I understand, there have been no special targets set for the different shifts or for the different levels, nor for the top leader level, and I want to challenge the council a little bit on this. Should it not also be important to set concrete targets for each level, and above all the top level? I don't know if the Council of State has already moved so many thoughts about this, I really don't demand that, but my reasoning suggests that if the goal of 40 pst. women's share is for the whole group of State leadership positions, the focus will be shifted towards the levels to which it is easiest to recruit women. What helps to raise the average is not top management positions, but positions further down in the hierarchy. However, it is important to make use of the resources made available by women, including those covered by the government's management pay system. Is not democracy equally important at the top leadership level? That's what I wanted to challenge the state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e155	I fully agree with the representative Lånke that it is important to get women into the top positions in state activities. When I express satisfaction in many ways with the development that we can now document, and also have such a great focus on the middle management layer, it's precisely because a good balance between the genders there will be absolutely crucial for us to achieve the same at the top management level as well. We need some steps at a time on the way to the top, and women who are to bemoan top management positions hardly come from the lowest level of leadership and directly to the top, as little as men do. For this reason, the objective of achieving a balanced relationship between women and men also in senior positions will be linked to whether we actually get a share of women in middle management positions that balances with the number of men. That's actually going to be a crucial prerequisite for success. Then I am in the same way as the representative Lånker, concerned with the democratic aspect, that there is a balance between women and men in the important societal positions. But at the same time, I'm concerned with the possibilities that lie in us being different, and the diversity that it represents getting a larger width into the top leader positions as well. It's important for the result we're going to create, and I think that's one of the most important effects of getting a better balance than we have today. It is about laying the foundations for a more innovative and dynamic public sector, as I mentioned in my main article, by making greater use of the resources of women in the workplace and in senior management.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e162	Under today's legislation, it has a public obligation to work for equality in all areas of society. This obligation is reinforced to include private employers, workers and employment organisations. The proposal is important because it makes it clear that gender equality is a shared responsibility both in the public and private sectors. Both public and private enterprises shall account for the gender equality situation in the annual report of the enterprises. The boardrooms of private enterprises are generally occupied by men. We have done something about this, but unfortunately the Workers' Party lost the fight to get this legal decision from 1 January 2004. Before we reach the target, with 40-60 pst. Women and men in governments and councils, we are at least in 2007. The reason for this is that the majority wants to wait and look forward to the autumn of 2005. We regret this in the Labour Party. It's good with this interpellation, and with the performances of Prime Minister Bondevik on International Women's Day, March 8. But it would have been even better if the newly appointed Council of State had that day been a woman. Not to complain about the good and newly elected councillor Meyer – I would like to congratulate him on the job, otherwise – but here was the chance to get ten male and nine female councillors. It would have been very good! The share of women's state secretaries is 30,5 pst, so it has to go up. I actually think it would have been good with quotaing also in the management of the state, and not just in the business of governments and councils. Worst is the Department of Defense, with only 9 pst. women among their leaders. This shows that everything is not just pink in public administration, and not in the political system at all. I interpret this in such a way that this government believes that equality is enough of itself over time. But those arguments are probably something to be made. The Workers' Party for a while had an interpellation about the lack of equality in the Academy, where only 16 pst. of all the professors are women. This did not worry the State Council of Clement, and she would not use any other means to raise the proportion of women among the professors. Finally, I would like to say that the biggest problems with jobs, and not least wages, in relation to gender equality lie in private business. I hope that developments in equality in public enterprises will go even faster in the future, as the Council of State has also said it should and should, and that this will also affect private activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e175	The President will note that it is probably recent to have something done with the gender of the new Council of State. In return, it looks bright when it comes to the list of speakers. The next speaker is Sonja Irene Sjøli, then Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e178	Initially, I would like to say that it is quite free from the Workers' Party to criticise this government for not having put equality on the agenda. It was actually this government that promoted the proposal to get 40 pst. women in control of private enterprises. Today's debate on women in senior positions in the state is an important debate, and I want to praise the representative Lånke for addressing this issue. As the interpellant was in, I had an interpellant in 1999, and it has actually gone forward since then. There is a broad consensus that it is important for the general gender equality policy that there are more women in senior positions both in the state and in the private sector. A modern society is an equal society with equal distribution of women into positions of power, in government and in business. As I said in the 1999 debate, it is only in an equal society that it is possible to secure diversity and democracy. Men and women must be given the same opportunities to take joint responsibility, including in the field of care. Equality isn't just a woman thing, even if you should think it when you look beyond the hall. If we are to achieve full equality at home and in the workplace, both women and men must engage and involve themselves. They must participate in the labour market on an equal footing and fully share family responsibilities. It's been a positive development in the last few years, as many have experienced. It is now a great responsibility for the Government and the individual departments to ensure that positive developments continue. The Ministry of Labour and Administration must be a driver and a watchman for the other departments, so that the objective can be achieved by 2006. The Council of State mentioned a number of measures that the state enterprises themselves are using actively: the mentoring programme for women leaders, support for networks and meeting places for women intermediaries are positive, and the department commits itself to stimulating government leaders to seek wider experience and qualify for leadership careers. I fully agree with the Council of State that the way in which the state recruits for leadership positions will have a bearing on whether the state is able to attract capable women. A pilot project to promote mobility among leaders, and to make it easier for leaders to change the field of action, I think are very important measures, especially because this pilot project will focus on women, if I understood the Council of States correctly. The female base established in 1999 has been and will continue to be an important contribution. I don't think we'd come as far as we actually have without the ambitions and the goals being so clear. It is good to hear that the Council of State is impatient, that he now makes it clear that he will have the same commitment to getting female leaders in the state as his predecessors, and that the Government is taking equality work seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e189	I'm going to create some disharmony in this hoarder. The share of women leaders in the state was 28 p.m. In 2002, and yesterday we could read on Text-TV that the proportion of women in the state is now up to 34 pst. When the Minister of Justice today also says that every third head of police is going to be a woman, it's probably the goal of 40 pst. reached a long time before 2006 – despite the absence of legal regulations in this area, which the Workers' Party wants. I cannot escape the thought that when the representative Lånke promotes such an interpellation, it is only for the sake of freeing his female electors – or in order to obtain the competence of his council. Because he had checked with the Government – his government – how it was with women in senior positions in the state, I am absolutely sure that it would not have been necessary to spend the Storting's time on this interpellation. But once the matter is up, I have to say that for the sake of both the female leaders and not least the different departments and state offices of these women, I hope that they were employed because of their competence and suitability and not because they were women. The women's front has for the longest time seen their best days, and what's left of the red stockings, is hardly anything but a pair of filleted bees. I don't think we politicians need to run stigmatizing women's fights or help women into leading positions. I am absolutely convinced that we women are doing well on their own. We – women – are not minority groups that need men’s protective or helpful hands to reach what we want. We're actually doing it ourselves. And to me, it becomes more an insult than a gain when, in the best sense, wise men in the Christian People's Party and the Right, we get hope, to secure female representation in leadership positions and in governments, it is in the public or private sector. I don't think you can achieve what is desirable from these gentlemen by imposing and regulating neither one thing nor the other. What could be the result if you don't think well about it is that there will be more and more frustrated men who feel lost in the quota process, and who therefore don't give us good women the credit we deserve, but believe that all women in leadership positions, positions and boards are there because of their sex and not because of their competence. These are positions that can quickly become prominent and, as you know, cannot be adopted away from opinions and opinions. We must have greater confidence in Norwegian business leaders! She or he gets younger and takes it as a matter of course to respect women for what they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e201	The President would point out that it must be exceptionally beneficial to be a manager if it means getting younger and younger!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e204	I would like to congratulate the new Council of State on its appointment. The government has a target of at least 40 pst. representation of both sexes in senior management positions in the country by 1 July 2006. The 2003 equality barometer shows that 12 out of 17 ministries today have a share of 36 pst. or lower. According to the Newspaper on February 4, this year, only 20 pst. women included in the country’s executive remuneration. Health entities are a good example. In total, there are 36 health businesses. Of these, only 5 are led by women. In 2002, 63 psts were met. by the boards of health care establishments the requirement of 40 pst. representation of both sexes. In 2003, compliant regimes had sunk to 59 pst. The regional directors are men. The Equality Ombudsman has checked the ministries’ gender equality statements, which were addressed by the Council of State. Only three departments meet the requirements of the Equality Act. This is so bad that the Equality Ombudsman has asked the Government to clean up. Governments in different departments have been in several contexts in debates and in the press with reports where there is a great deal of optimism on behalf of the law change in the Equality Act, which is intended to ensure a minimum of 40 pst. for women. There are several claims that it is certain that this can be achieved on a voluntary basis. What we see as taking inward into reality is that in the private sector you move in the right direction by mouse-skrit. This government has not done what it needs to do to achieve its own goal. The perspective on sex and power was absent in the previous power investigation. The new power investigation has contributed to new knowledge of gender equality in a number of books and articles. However, the gender perspective is not sufficiently addressed and integrated in the final report of the majority in NOU 2003:19. Women's participation in management and boardrooms is important both because they are competent and because gender equality is an important perspective. Despite the fact that women account for more than half the population, there is a clear overweight of male leaders in the private and public sectors, and there is also an overweight of men among rapporteurs and municipal government representatives. Gender equality in municipalities is progressing at a slow pace. Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities are women's workplaces run by men. The work on equality must be given higher priority by the Government. It's a little bit too puzzled to say it goes in the right direction. We need a more active and conscious policy to move forward in an equal work and equal pay development. The first thing you have to do is clean up your own house in the departments. I'm excited what the new Council of State will actually do to get to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e217	It is commendable by the representative Lånke to put the theme of women in public administration positions on the political agenda. 50 pst. of the inhabitants of the country are women. Nevertheless, according to the Newspaper of February 4 this year, only about 20 pst. of those who are the tenants of the state, women. After a decision of 40 p.m. Women's representation in the country has also been a greater pressure on business to allow women to escape to a greater extent than before. I guess we're the first country to launch quotas as a tool to increase the low women's representation in government, which has led to the attention of other countries. Although the proportion of women in senior positions in public administration has increased, it's foreshadowing that we haven't come even further than what we actually have. Nor in private business have we come quite a long way. It is therefore with interest that I have followed in what is happening in the Agder County. There, together with both municipalities and Innovation Norway, the NHO has started training courses in women’s rental. Women are in multiple places at both universities and other right-hand educational institutions. Women thus have both education and knowledge needed in business and public administration. But we need someone in the head to motivate, stimulate, and train women in order to take on rental options, even in the public sector. The fact that NHO is now targeting training in many places is good, but it is important that the public also know their responsibilities. The State should have some sort of procedural responsibility in its work on gender equality. More and more seemed to think that women in corporate governance and leadership positions are important in a lack of work life. If women are kept outside, both public and business are missing out on valuable skills and inadequacies. I have noticed that the Council of State took several of the measures taken to increase the proportion of women in senior positions in the country, and the Council of State was quite satisfied with what has been achieved. But it's important that the government doesn't depend on what you've achieved, but that one goes on. Governments also stressed that in order to enter a senior position, a higher level must have gone. It is therefore important to stimulate women to take on leadership positions, move from the bottom to the top, and not just look at top management settings. I hope, therefore, that the Council of State is open to consider measures that will lead to a long step closer to the target of 40 pst. women in state-leading positions. By opening up to facilitate women, we show that we are serious about full equality, and that we are concerned about using both experience and knowledge that women have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e232	It is particularly gratifying to be able to give the word to a spokesperson for the underrepresented sex in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e235	Thanks for the introduction. It was almost in accordance with what I had intended to say. Apart from the inter-pellant and the Council of State, I am, at least, the only male participant in the debate, and I would say that if Torny Pedersen had fulfilled his desire for a different sex at the turn of the state council yesterday, there would thus have been another man less in this debate. It is an important question that has been addressed in this interview, and it is gratifying to note that, after all, it is going in the right direction. This is probably an area where it is important to be able to combine, on the one hand, to be impatient and, on the other, to be realistic and to take action that is appropriate in individual areas, in order to achieve the desired objective. It is only by implementing measures adapted to the individual areas that the most possible assurance is that they will be effective. I agree with the Council of State that it is important to focus on middle managers. This is a prerequisite for recruiting women to top managers in the next round. You can risk doing the women who become top managers, a bear service, if you don't make sure they have the necessary background of experience first. It is important to take into account the situation in each sector of the profession. It is natural whether there is a difference between the proportion of women in senior positions in nursing and defence and police. Although it is a little on the page, it is important to ensure a more even recruitment in different areas that you actually also ensure a more even recruitment to the different professions. It has been said in the last few days, perhaps especially in relation to yesterday, that we in Norway are in the situation that we actually have a more traditional choice of occupation among young people than what you have in very many other countries. Young people's choice of different types of education and occupations they choose will also necessarily have an impact on the number of leaders in areas where women will be underrepresented. It is therefore a rather bold objective of the Dørum Council when he wants a third of women in senior positions in the police, as long as there is a higher proportion than in the group from which leaders are to be elected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e248	Finally, I would like to say that I think this is an important debate. I just picked up this interpellation because it is necessary at regular intervals to take the theme up also in this room, put the search light on it. I'm glad that the vast majority of those who had the floor in the debate showed a strong commitment to raising the equality issue. I did not register any disagreement, except for what was said by the representative Woldseth of the Progress Party, who also this time, as previously, claims that the market can settle this area too – this does not require a high pace in anything compared to anything else. I also recorded that she was critical of the fact that there were men active in this debate. I have to say that I do have the belief that if men don't get involved in the equality issue, we won't get anywhere in terms of women's equality, either in terms of breaking down the human domination of society. So I think that women should also be positive about men engaging in this equality debate. Finally, I will come back to the skepticism that I have mentioned earlier. I am pleased that the Council of State has strongly stressed the importance of having more women in the top-level positions. I agree that it is important that the gender equality strategy is anchored in absolutely all businesses, and I assume that it applies at all levels. But then my question is, wouldn't it be right to anchor the goal specifically at each level, in order to put the search light on the individual level and to ensure that we draw not only the intermediate layer, but all the targets with us upwards by starting at the top? I want to point that out, and I guess I didn't register that the council took up that glove. It's important that the equality goal is achieved at all levels, including at the top. If we don't make sure to smooth out the bias that is now there, that means that we will still accept that middle-aged men can stand in the way of well-qualified women. Although the instruments may sometimes seem brutal to some, my claim is that both men and women have been patient long enough. Society needs men and women at all levels. Only then will we have an optimal equal society. We can't afford to rule out half of the population in the arenas where the decisions are made. It is not the case that unqualified women now have to enter jobs they do not actually fill. The thing is, men have been pushed ahead for too long. We could also call it some kind of allowance, but this allowance has been done in the hidden. Now we want to speed up cohesion towards an equal public society. It shall not take place in the hidden place, but shall take place in a public context.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e263	It is good to note that the objective is common. I record that we have a slightly different view of whether or not a quarter of women in leading positions of two years will be described as puzzled. But I have to say that the government must be allowed to be satisfied with a program that means that we have had a growth in the number of women in senior positions in the state over two years on the equivalent of 25 pst. I find it difficult to characterize it with the word 'puzzle'. I would also like to say to the representative Pedersen that the human dominance of state activities has grown under the Labour Party's government of the Finnish Government. That a civil cooperation government is now turning that trend around and making sure that more women are given the opportunity to lead jobs, I think it might be strange that we are being criticized for. We've set a target of 40 pst. share of women in leading positions in the country by the first half of 2006. I have confirmed in the course of the debate that the Government is at that goal. Targeting the proportion of women in senior management positions before 1 July 2006 does not seem appropriate, but it may be a topical issue when we see what the results on 1 July 2006 actually are. The observation about my sex is correct. The size will also know that it is not a choice I have made. However, the choices I can make relate to my political leadership in the department, and I can guarantee the participants in this debate that I value the competence and breadth of both sexes, and that there is a complete balance between the genders in the political management of the department for which I am responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e274	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e289	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2133]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e306	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2133]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e323	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2133]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e339	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e348	I will not spend much of the Storting's time on my post. What we are dealing with is a proposal from the Progress Party, asking the Government for a new assessment of the Upper Reindalen in terms of protection and mining, and for a case to be brought before the Stortinget on this. It is the majority's view, and also my own, that the establishment of protective plans is initially not a responsibility for the Storting but is entrusted with the powers of the Government. The majority, therefore, do not wish to go into the substance of this matter, but instead refer to the comments and suggestions made by the parties in relation to the examination of Ot.prp. No 38 for 2000-2001, Act on Environmental Protection at Svalbard. With these few words, I recommend to the majority that the proposal of the Progress Party be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e359	I'm not going to spend that long. This matter seems certainly already, but for the sake of local democracy and the business community at Svalbard, we consider this to be such a big and important matter that it should be debated in the Stortinget. That is also why we have promoted the proposal. We're completely in line with Longyearbyen's local government in that way. The mining of Svalbard is the very bearer and lifeblood of society up there. What the Government has proposed is quite significant in terms of protection and the consequences it can have of a significant reduction in mining operations and its liquidation if the worst forecasts fail. I am disappointed with the large number of people who do not really want to take a proper debate on this matter. In a lot of party speeches we hear how important local democracy is, and how important it is for local democracy to be involved in and govern, this with local autonomy. But when it comes to a specific matter in Stortinget, the bulk of the population overrun the demands, demands and needs of the local government of Svalbard in the matter. With that, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e370	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e373	Norway’s presence on Svalbard is of major importance for the suppression of Norwegian sovereignty on the island group. The coal industry is an important part of our presence, even though other businesses are now coming in. In the opinion of the Coastal Party, Norway should invest in as many different establishments on Svalbard as it is appropriate in view of the vulnerable nature of the area. The coal industry at Svalbard is in both global and local terms a small problem for the environment. In environmental policy, it is important to distinguish between real problems and symbolic policies. Therefore, the Coastal Party will support the proposal to ask the Government to review the Upper Reindalen in terms of protection and mining and submit the matter to the Stortinget. I would also like to point out that Norway should not impose professionally weakly justified restrictions on the activities that maintain the Russian presence on Svalbard. This presence includes, inter alia: improved the ability of the Russians to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Svalbard Treaty. In the security sensitive north areas, Norway has served to continue the confidence-building measures that can stabilise and improve the relationship between Norway and Russia. We are not served by a unilateral policy and unilateral influence in the Svalbard area. That is too important for the Svalbard Treaty. It is important to safeguard the interests of the Russians and their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e382	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 2133]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e398	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that lines are not allowed after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e405	We now have a Document No. 8 proposals from representatives Svendsen, Bredvold and Nistad to start work on the construction of a new E6 between Mjøsbrua and Øyer with four-field motorway standard and with middle parts between the lanes. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, wishes to see this Document No. The 8th proposal shall be annexed to the minutes. I'm assuming that the minority, i.e. The party of progress will explain its views on the matter. More than a year ago, a Document No was promoted by the Progress Party. 8-proposals that included this section we have to deal with today. Then there was the extension of E6 to a continuous four-field motorway from Oslo to Trondheim. The majority of the committee then made the same recommendation as we do today. We also do it on the same grounds, with reference to the treatment of the national transport plan. This plan will be dealt with in a short time. This will focus on the development of the road network. The improvement of road safety and the emergence of E6 between Gardermoen and Lillehammer will be discussed in this context. For us, it's important to look at the whole thing. Unfortunately, there are many sections that have large accident rates, and then it is important for us to make the right priorities in a larger context. Therefore, we will address this matter when we receive a national transport plan for treatment. Providing such major projects in the context of the revised budget will be a new way for us to deal with such matters. The revised budget is a revision of the state budget for the current year. To come up with new, big projects that you don't know the cost overview for, I don't think belong here. The majority therefore propose that this proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e422	Of all the fatal accidents on the roads last year, a total of 100 were on the road, and unfortunately there were many on the route we are dealing with today. E6 from Gardermoen to Otta, and especially the route Mjøsbrua–Øyer, has become a dead end. In 2003, 17 people were killed on the road section and a large number were injured. Many of these accidents are due to vehicle passage into the opposite lane and frontal collision with the vehicle in contact. Such accidents would have been largely prevented if a quadruple highway with middle parts had been built. The road from Oslo to Gardermoen was formerly called the road of death. After this was expanded with middle parts and four fields, there are currently almost no accidents on that route. The same applies to the new E18 through Westfold, where the speed has increased and the accidents are almost gone. It turns out that it pays to bet on road construction as a safety measure. It is therefore urgent to start planning and building the route between Mjøsbrua and Øyer, so that as many lives as possible can be saved. The Progress Party points out that the rationale and proposal are based on rapid treatment in the Storting and appropriations already in the current NTP period. The Progress Party wants funds already in the revised budget for spring and not in the forthcoming plan which will only start to apply from 2006. A postponement of implementation, in addition to the fact that many will be maimed for life, will cost many people their lives. Last year traffic accidents in the Eastern region alone cost DKK 5 billion, only for Hedmark and Uppland alone SEK 2-3 million. kr. It's expensive not to build. In addition, we have all the suffering that the accidents cause us. We don't have time to keep delaying and waiting. And then, finally, I'd like to address the proposal that reads: ‘The size asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2004 to submit proposals on means of planning and launching the fastest possible deployment of E6 between Mjøsbrua and Øyer with 4 fields of Class A motorway with middle parts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e442	The representative of Thore A. Nistad has taken up the proposal he referred to. The representative Jan Sahl has declined his word, if the president understands it correctly, probably to set a good example. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e449	The extension of E6 to motorway standard northwards from Gardermoen to Øyer is an important matter for the entire Mjø area. As the main trajectory along the eastern side of Mjøsa, the E6 plays a central role both for passenger transport and for the trailer transport in and not least through this area. The E6 through the Gudbrandsdalen is the main year of trailer transport from the north-west to the markets in Oslo and beyond in Europe. This, in combination with the passenger traffic of the country's largest cabin areas, causes us to regrettably have had a very accident-related road billing. This applies in particular to the distance of E6 involved. Accident statistics are frightening and the number of fatal accidents has been increasing year by year. However, road standards are important not only for road safety but also for industry in the area. Effective access to markets is a point in itself, but also for the settlement in the area around Mjøsa, transport time is very important. Inland development depends to a significant extent on the Oslo area as a driving force. There are assignments, jobs and most of the weekend tourists. Therefore, for the areas of Uppland and Hedmark served by E6, travel time, safe driving path and availability are key words in terms of business development and housing. In particular, this will be important for an area facing high migration requirements. The fact that this development is too extensive to be adopted without incorporating it into the whole national transport plan is self-evident. However, when the case comes up, there is reason to point out the importance of it and to stress that this is a development case that should be kept high when working with the new plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e462	At first I would say that I thought the Great Council chair was there to be used if you had anything to say about a matter. So to the matter. Of many things that make us live in the districts, the road and the standard of it are of the utmost importance. The road allows people to live well from their workplaces. The road allows people to travel and experience things other than what they do in their community. The road allows goods to be transported out and in, depending on what you need, and not least when you need it. The road allows people to live to a great extent just where they want to. The use and number of users are not always proportionate to the standard on the road. When this is not consistent, accidents happen, unfortunately with death sometimes, and we get so-called death routes. Therefore, large parts of Norway’s road network need to be upgraded or rebuilt, and that is why we have this case today about the four-field motorway standard and the middle parts between the lanes. This is a case that could also have covered other road sections that also have their problems. It is a pity, therefore, that the majority of the Grand Duchy will not be with the Advance Party to grant more money for this route and other similar routes. In a social account, which includes all the costs involved, and savings for, inter alia: Business, you'd probably get an answer where the cost of building wouldn't necessarily be as much higher than the savings you'd get. In addition, many personal tragedies would have been avoided. Just this with middle parts has been shown to be able to reduce the number of accidents a lot, and this is probably something we have to bet more on in the future. It is — once again — a pity that no more will be involved in making Norway a safer and better place to live, by investing in road construction. This is what the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e475	Promoting major projects – over the counter, I kept saying – says Andersen from the Right. And we do that in the Progress Party, simple and easy to be in the forefront. We'll be there saving lives, saving people for suffering, saving relatives for missing after those they've lost in traffic. Doesn't the Right and Government see what's about to happen? New pathways of death are coming up steadily. This road is one of the deadways. 17 people were killed last year. And the Government and the Workers' Party sit and watch and do nothing. They refer to the national transport plan. Yes, we want action now. We want to save as many human lives as possible now, we don't want to postpone and postpone. We have no more to lose in this society, and you see that the majority sits and two hands and doesn't respond. How many human lives and how many fates will the majority here accept before they respond? I am calling for the response of the Council of State to this. So we in this room have decided to reduce the speed limit in this area, we've decided to install photo-boxes in the east and west, everywhere, and we've decided to have a dot load in order to bring down the number of traffic accidents. What's the result? In the first few months, the number of fatalities in traffic has increased. So you can't stop this like this. I'd like the Council of State to come up and tell you what kind of action it's going to be. Is it that the cars should now be completely stopped, that you should not be allowed to drive on the roads, to stop the deaths in traffic? How many more new measures do you have to take? Because now you've used up almost all of them, and yet the death tolls are increasing. It is broken that the majority does not react, that one sits and washes one's hands and accepts that more and more people suffer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e488	I don't think anyone in this room disagrees that there has to be more investment on the road, and the government that we now have has received support in Stortinget for a pretty strong investment, with about 20 pst. increase over the last three years. So here will always be an impatience. I don't have a problem understanding that, but there are certain limits to how far you can go. Now, in a short time, we're going to go into the National Transport Plan, a plan where you're going to see all of these sections in context. And I want to remind those representatives who have spoken, and also others, that we look at the last few years, have over half of the fatal accidents, for example. in Uppland and Hedmark on routes other than on E6. Death rates are too high, but they have shown a declining trend over several decades. So the question is, what about realism in what the Progress Party proposes? I think we'll try to put a little bit into a context of the suggestions that the Progress Party has made in the last year. Together they have raised Document No. 8-proposals of approximately SEK 110 billion – DKK 110 billion to be realized over the next ten years. If we divide this, it'll be about 10 to 11 billion dollars per. years. It is more than twice what the Progress Party itself has proposed in its budget outside all the possible frameworks – they have doctors of about 5 billion dollars per year. years. So here's something that's not related at all. Let's just say that this needs a bigger bet. Let's say that we're a little bit on the way, but there's a lot of work going on here. But exactly pure demonstration proposals that are not consistent at all, and allowing billions in the revised budget, are unfortunately not good for the things that many of us work for, simply to give Norway better and safer roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e501	I am very pleased that the Progress Party is now on the road in terms of road safety. I can't say that I've seen the great support, neither of the dot load policy, nor of speed limits. The fact that the Progress Party is now clearly on the track in terms of road safety, I am inexorably grateful for it. I would also like to stress that for me, it is important that we do what we can to stop the development of accidents, not just on some roads, but on all of them. This means that we must have a comprehensive policy that is about using the tools we can, on a broad front – ranging from training for those who are going to drive a car, developing an attitude that respects signs and traffic rules, and to awareness campaigns and other types of action. How many of the fatal accidents in e.g. Nordland – to take one state – would have been saved last year if we had some middle parts? Could we have had midpoints on these roads? Then we're talking about roads that are so busy that they won't be within the category that Vegvesen says it would be relevant to have middle parts on. That means that we have many challenges around the country where it will not be on the agenda to be able to build middle parts, at least not in the foreseeable future. That means we have to attack the accident development on a broad front. I also appreciate the fact that the Progress Party has seen the aspect of middle parts as an opportunity. We're going to follow that up when we present our national transport plan. But I also want us to have both a responsible economic policy and a responsible road safety policy on the broad front.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e510	I have to get to grips with what the representative Løvik said. He called our proposal a demonstration proposal, and I think it's a little daring. Even he hits himself on the chest and says they had a 20 pst. the last increase. It's okay with 20 pst. increase when the increase is close to nothing. But I just want to remind the representative Løvik that they are 1.5 billion kroner according to the national transport plan in terms of road construction. Enough about that. In terms of the entire distance, not just the distance we're talking about today, but the entire distance from Gardermoen to Lillehammer, it's costing 7 billion kroner, poor 7 billion kroner. Then the whole way is four-field, with the middle parts. That's where the state's going to contribute 900 million. kr. So Løvik's calculation won't be exactly right when he adds the whole point of progress. We have also said that we accept bombs on some routes. So a little bit to the Council of State, who said that the Progress Party is now finally on the track, and that we were not when it came to dot load. Well, we were probably on the track when it was a dot load, but we didn't want it. We've always said that we'll do it another way. We're going to build good roads with middle parts, like you've done from Oslo to Svinesund, on E6, and like you've done on the E18 southwards. And there is certainly a great reduction in accidents. We believe that this, along with laying the main roads and roads outside the agglomerations, is the best way to reduce traffic accidents. I do not share the views of the Council of State that zero vision is possible. But it is possible to have a severe reduction in the accidents, and it has certainly fought for the front line. Instead of the dot load and the photoboxes, we want to do it another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e520	The Chairman of the Committee says that he does not disagree with the Advancement Party that we need more way. But why doesn't he do anything about it? For example, he could. start by fulfilling the promises made by the Right and Sem statement, saying that more money should be spent on the road. You're a long way from what you've promised the people. And then you say you want more. You could start by fulfilling the promises you've made. And as Nistad quite rightly says when it comes to 20 pst. increase: Yes, 20 pst. increase when almost no money is spent on the road! So here it's not going to be much more. But when you don't meet your own promises, when you see that traffic is as big as it is, and when the death tolls rise and rise, you would, instead of not fulfilling your own promises, go far further to save those who are killed in traffic, to save all the relatives who are left. Then Løvik also comes with a wrong information here. We haven't suggested that this should happen over ten years, we've actually written that it should happen over 15 years. And then you get a completely different sum. So that's not correct. So the Council of State says that she is particularly pleased that the Progress Party is coming on the track in terms of security. It's one of the worst things I've ever heard! Here it is that the state council, which likes to tell her that she stands for security, has introduced dot loads, which we opposed, she has introduced photoboxes and lower speed limits. And what has she achieved with that? Yes, more people killed in traffic. That's the fact. It's just looking at developments in the first two months, there's more killed in traffic this year than last year. And then she says she's happy that we're coming after. We have proposed to mount middle parts so that people can save themselves and not be killed, because most accidents occur in front of front-end collisions. The Minister does nothing – along with a majority on Stortinget. We need security, we do. And then the council says she'll be responsible. Is it responsible to allow people to be killed in traffic in the number that has been? If it's accountability, I'm glad I'm irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e532	It was the posts of the Council of State that made me take the floor. Because there's something you can provoke the Progress Party, it's accusing the Advance Party of being unthinkable in thinking about security. The fact that the Council of State has a passive and defensive attitude towards security should certainly not be at the expense of the Progress Party. Because it's something this batch has been focusing on for 20 years, it's road safety. The fact that we focus on safer cars, safer roads and race protection once and for all, and increasingly have higher appropriations to give priority to these areas, the Council of State cannot stand here on the pulpit and simply provoke the Progress Party by downplaying. I guess I'm tired of that. So the Council of State performs to say that the Government is not concerned with highways, but of all ways. I'm going to give an example of how busy this government is of all the ways. At these times, the E6 is about to be completed in Steinkjer in the North Trøndelag, which this government has been behind. Today there's a big report in the Nord-Trøndelag that this is probably going to be the new way of death. Why? Because this road – E6 – is placed in the middle of the city, in uphill and downhill hills, in a tunnel that creates pollution, etc. – and without middle division. No middle division! So the fact that, to the best of my knowledge, the Council of State is trying to imagine the Norwegian people that dot loads, photoboxes, speed dumps and speed reductions are road safety, we are now getting disproved. There are no road users in Norway who believe in what the Council of State says. Governments do not have any credibility with regard to their road safety measures. Then it is certainly time for the Council of State and the Government to start to respect the party that takes the fight for real road safety year after year, namely the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e541	For some reason, the Progress Party does not like to be reminded that this Government has actually got a good deal done. 20 pst. increasing national roads in three years is not bad, when we also know that we have a policy that has given lower interest rates and much better conditions for our business. There is also a distinction between the Progress Party and the Right Layer. Then several of the representatives chatter by saying yes, but that's 20 pst. of nothing! Is that it? What's the level this year? We have $11 billion for the highways. We have $1 billion for state road ferries. We have $2 billion for county roads. We have $3 billion for municipal roads. We're up to approx. 17 billion dollars, and for us in the right is at least not 17 billion dollars. So the Progress Party also talks about that we break our lifting. I'm not so sure the Progress Party can enjoy it too much. For what are we promised? Yes, we said in the Sem statement, as in other words. The representative Svendsen pointed out that we want an increase of approx. 600 million. kr at the level proposed by the Workers' Party in the National Transport Plan, and the Government proposed it under the auspices of the State Road Service. We are well in the process of complying with the call for competition – and there is to be praise for the Advance Party, they have been with us and get us a number for this. As soon as that rule has been fulfilled, we have come so far that we are now approx. 200 million. in 2004 below the adjusted Sem level. This was a little technical, but since the Progress Party repeatedly claims that we're so far behind, I just wanted to mention it. So to the bill for Kenneth Svendsen, in ten and fifteen years. The hundreds of billions proposed in Document No. The 8th proposal, the private proposal now in the fall, was over a ten-year period. It's going to be a hundred billion dollars divided by ten, which is ten billion dollars. And then we have the billions here that are going to divide into 15 years. At least it is well over 10 billion dollars a year, which is about twice what the Progress Party itself, without taking into account other sectors of society as a whole, has proposed in the annual budgets. So with my mind, there's still no connection in what the Progress Party has proposed. They suggest measures following measures that are very good, but when the seriousness comes in or approaches, there is a lack of money there in the garden.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e552	As this debate develops, the President will be glad that the average age in the Grand Duchy is such that the representatives can be expected to retain the mathematical knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e555	This was a lot of a one-part show, so I couldn't really do it. But when the president indirectly says that there were a lot of numbers – which appeared now – we don't have to be so afraid that the whole Norwegian press basket falls off, because it's not exactly a step in the press department in this case. I have to say that I feel very uncomfortable when an uncritical user uses death in attacks against other parties and other people, because everyone is affected by people dying or being injured on the roads. We all want to make the most possible, but we may not believe in the same tools, and at least we certainly want to see things much more in context. When this is combined with an easy-to-use relationship between what leads to an accident and what doesn't, I'm kind of provoked, because it's not photoboxes or dot loads that lead to more fatal accidents. There's no evidence of that. Probably future shows exactly the opposite. We don't have any experience with the dot load yet. In fact, photo boxes have a lot of experience for helping us in real pain, while the Progress Party's desire to increase speed definitely makes accidents worse. Finally, I am a real politician. And I think most of the Norwegian people are busy with what we get. So now the Progress Party has stood on this pulpit and the most rattled time after time, with billions that they know are just paper money. Demonstration suggestions are being made on demonstration proposals, but what have they been given? What have they got from more money? What are their results when more is involved in this accumulation period? It's small money – it's small money! And then I could say, if the Progress Party wants to influence it, one of them has to kind of play with the system and doesn't ridicule the system all the time. That's not how we get good cooperation on good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e564	First of all, I would very much agree with the last speaker and with the committee leader, Løvik. Of course, we could have built the middle parts on all Norwegian roads, we would have had money for it. It would still not have solved the problem completely. We have three major types of accidents in Norway. There are meeting accidents, there are road accidents, and there are accidents in relation to soft road users. I am very much in favour of having as safe cars as possible, but I do not want to defend that we should have safe cars in order for us to be able to drive as wild as we like. There are, for example: Some schoolchildren who travel along Norwegian roads, who also deserve us to drive in a responsible way as drivers. That means we actually need a code. We need different types of measures than road construction. What happens if we build roads? Well, we get a good infrastructure, and the roads get safer. But there's also more traffic, not only on the four-field roads with the middle parts, but there's also more traffic on other roads. What have we seen when we built roads with middle parts? Well, we've gotten down the number of accidents on those roads, fortunately. This means that there is a good measure in place. But what also happened? Well, accidents have increased on other roads. That means that the accidents may be moving. That is why we need a broad approach to the accident challenges. Finally, I just want to show that we are coming with the National Transport Plan quite soon. We will then have plenty of opportunity to discuss both four-field roads with middle-parts and other types of road safety measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e577	Thore A. Nistad has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e580	It's rare I get as provoked as I get in such a debate as this one. That's what we've been given, we've been accused of. Even if it's small money, the Progress Party doesn't give the bluff for it! We don't want to let everything scour and go. We say over and over again, we want safer cars, we want better roads, we want the death tolls on the road down. And then that's the calculation that you've given us. Yes, that's right, the Progress Party has proposed a further 5 billion kroner per year. years on roads in connection with the national transport plan. Then it's based on the fact that the money that's going to be there every year, hopefully it's still there. I'm assuming they're still doing that. So there's $11 billion, and after all, you can do something with the 11 billion that's in there, and then you've added to it with the poor $5 billion. So we're going to be up in a reasonably acceptable sum. In addition, we have revenues from the toll stations, which are spreading like a farsot, of NOK 2-3 billion per year. years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e589	The President would like to remind you that giving the scam is an activity that should preferably take place outside the storeroom. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox The vote will be taken at the end of the debate on the agenda. [[Fotation, see page 2134]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e601	Then we are ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e608	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 7, by Øystein Hedstrom, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party proposal No. 8, from Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to appoint a cross-policy board for better coordination of the development of the digital infrastructure.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e635	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals in order to establish a tax-deductive saving scheme applicable to broadband and home PCs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e650	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–6, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the speed of broadband deployment so that the broadband target for all households, enterprises and public institutions can be met by 2007. An annual status report shall be submitted to the Stortinget.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop BaneTele AS into a company with a comprehensive national network structure based on the following assumptions:(a) The ongoing sales process of BaneTele AS is stopped.(b) Coordination and development of infrastructure locally and regionally to BaneTele network is implemented on the basis of the assumptions and principles deriving from the comments of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party of the Innst. [[2003-2004]] S. No 133 Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals in order to prevent municipalities from charging for digging for the establishment of broadband infrastructure.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a broadband fund. The fund is allocated to a total of 3 billion. crowns in government budgets for 2005 and 2006.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop guidelines and criteria for the allocation of funds from the broadband fund based on the assumptions and principles deriving from the comments of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party of the Inn. [[2003-2004]] S. No 133 Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to ensure the development of fully satisfactory alternatives where fibre-based solutions cannot be implemented on a commercial basis.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e700	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote. The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have warned that once their minority proposals have now been rejected, they will, in a subsidiary way, join in the Roman figures of the proposal for decisions on which they are not initially involved. These are Roman numerals III to VIII. Roman numerals I, II and IX are unanimous in the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e766	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3 and 4, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, The President noted that proposal No. 2 is distributed in the hall with a slightly changed wording. Per Sandberg – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e780	As it may seem as if proposal No. 2 will not be given a majority, and since there have been signals from the Council of State in the course of the debate that this is something the Government will consider, I would suggest that the proposal be transformed into a transmission proposal. Furthermore, I would like to ask that proposal No. 1 is set up as an alternative to VI in the setting - this is because there will be another type of voting also in the case of VII and VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e787	The President will comply with that request. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government of the Revised National Budget 2004 asks the Government to submit proposals for the allocation of the estimate for the payment of uplift to the North Sea pioneers. The surcharge shall be equal to 1,2 million. crowns and shall also be provided to survivors.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to consider specific plans for the pioneer divers. The government is asked to return to Stortinget with this in an appropriate case during 2004.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e809	As regards proposal No: The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is advised to propose a compensation scheme for survivors and survivors, which has not been compensated for following accidents in Norwegian offshore activities. In relation to points below 2.5.’» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e852	The President will follow the request made by Mr Sandberg for alternative voting between proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, and VI in the position. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a compensation scheme for the pioneers in the North Sea in accordance with the guidelines set out in the comments of the members of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party of the Innst. [[2003-2004]] S. No 137
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e900	During the debate, the representative Jan Simonsen put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up guidelines as soon as possible to provide the pioneers in the North Sea and their surviving spouses/partners with the same economic guidelines for military retirement, which constitute per year. 1 May 2002 NOK 240.144 per month. years.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e926	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e933	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 26 February 2004: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider raising the tender threshold to the maximum permitted by the EEA Agreement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e948	I voted in favour, but I had to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e955	The correct votes will then be 74 votes against the proposal and 24 votes in favour. This is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e962	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 26 February 2004: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a case for a reassessment of the new national rules, including the threshold for procurement, once the new EU Public Acquisitions Directive has been adopted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e980	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 26 February 2004: ‘The Government is asked to explain, in the context of the 2005 State Budget, how the simplified notification legislation can be implemented in order to minimise the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e997	During the debate, Mr Korsberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to review the Upper Reindalen with regard to protection and mining, and present this to the Storting.» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-09-2.ana.ud854e1023	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2004 to submit proposals on means of planning and launching the fastest possible deployment of E6 between Mjøsbrua and Øyer with 4 fields of Class A motorway with middle parts.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
