ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e35	Honourable co-representatives! It was with sadness that we received the notice that the former payroll representative of the Workers' Party and County Gunnar Alf Larsen were dead, almost 84 years old. At his death, the Workers' Party has lost a highly respected believer and Norway a significant community builder. Gunnar Alf Larsen was born in Oslo in 1919. He became orphaned as a four-year-old and grew up in a boy's home in Oslo. At the age of 17, he went to sea for a period, before he began his education at Oslo Engineering School. When Norway was occupied by the Germans in 1940, it aroused Gunnar Alf Larsen to fight against the occupying power. In 1942 he was taken for illegal work. He was imprisoned, put first on Møllergata and then on Grini, before he was sent in 1943 to the concentration camp Sachsenhausen in Germany, where he was imprisoned for May 1945. He later described the detention in the prison camps as his ‘university’. Here he learned language and politics, but above all he learned something about man's will to survive. When he returned to Norway, he started at Aker's mek. Workshop, where he trained for iron threshing. The years of Aker became crucial to his political activity. His strong professional-political commitment began in the Norwegian Confederation of Iron and Metal Workers, then as chairman for seven years in Oslo Professional Cooperation and at the same time as a member of the National Organisation of Representatives. From the beginning of the 1950s until 1976 he was active in the Oslo Workers' Party, where he was a longtime member of the party board, Vice President and Chairman from 1974 to 1976. Gunnar Alf Larsen was elected to Stortinget and met as an alternate from 1951 to 1965 and as a permanent representative from 1965 to 1977. From 1965 to 1969, he served as vice president of the Industry Committee. From 1969 to 1973 he was a prominent head of the defense committee. From 1973 to 1977 he was the head of the Industry Committee, and he was a tone-setting industrial politician, among others. when the Norwegian aluminium industry was purchased home. Gunnar Alf Larsen was in Buskerud and Oslo and Akershus for the last eleven years of his working life. As a countyman he got a lot of child-sharing stuff on the table, and this was a problem that took him seriously. Gunnar Alf Larsen had a strong social commitment, and he showed warmth and care for his fellow humans no matter what position or role he had. It also got Vålerenga sports teams benefiting from his efforts as a member of and chairman of the 1984 football club. Gunnar Alf Larsen was a happy man, modest by nature. But his strong opinions sometimes made him a controversial politician. And he was passionate about industrial policy, security and foreign policy and the fight against communism. Gunnar Alf Larsen identified himself as a hundred percent with the social-democratic society and with the social-democratic ideas. At his departure, the Workers' Party has lost a strong banner and one of its veterans. It is with deep respect and in gratitude for his efforts we brighten the peace of Gunnar Alf Larsen's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e63	The representatives Haakon Blankenburg and Øystein Djupedal, who have been on leave, have again taken up seats. From the representative of Torbjørn Hansen, an application for maternity leave is made from 2 February to 27 February. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Bente Gunn Håtluft, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e91	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e96	I allow myself to propose Anne Berit Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e101	Anne Berit Andersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Anne Berit Andersen is considered unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e106	On behalf of Lena Jensen, Øystein Djupedal, Kjetil Bjørklund and myself, I suggest that networks and training offices be established for apprentices in small and protective subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e112	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e126	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, for the other speakers to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e133	The Secretary of State's statement was broad and thorough. His observation that Norway needs friends, and that we must therefore stand up for them, was important and necessary. I want to problem this because the challenge is that our friends, who are on both sides of the Atlantic, are quite disagreeable at the moment. I would say that the Foreign Minister probably cannot say, namely that never before has it been so clear to us that we would have been better off if we had been in the European Union – not because we could then choose between Europe and the United States, but because we had been able to influence the way Europe should go. This is where the core of the foreign policy challenge for Norway lies. It is not clear in which direction Europe will go. The months and years ahead of us are likely to start something new. But we are sitting in the hall while the others decide the direction for Europe. No travel activity around the European capitals can compensate for the fact that it sits around the table and is directly involved in the processes currently taking place. EU foreign ministers meet on a weekly basis. The EU has decided to establish its own planning cell at the NATO headquarters in Brussels. A significant foreign and security planning unit has also been established in the EU Council Secretariat. This means that hundreds of people will be involved in planning the EU's role in defence and security policy on a daily basis. For all years since NATO was established, Norway has had people at its headquarters in Brussels. This has been of invaluable importance in the pursuit of Norwegian interests. In the new EU units, we don't want any. We're going to notice that. What's at stake for us? Yes, that we can have a development where Europe and the EU are increasingly slipping apart, that the EU and the United States appear to be counter-polar. Then we are in a difficult situation because we are both an Atlantic and a European country, and our interests are linked to both. We saw in the Iraq crisis how difficult it is to be in that election situation. However, the impact on Norway of the division between Europe and the United States is a luxury problem when we look at the impact it has on others, among others. for the neighbourhood of Europe. Let me explain it with a couple of examples: The situation in Iraq is very difficult. But it can be better if the United States is willing to take into account the views of European countries and if these countries are willing to engage. If this does not happen, it can all end in full chaos, or we can have a fundamentalist priesthood in Iraq, or the country can be divided. In the conflict between Israel and Palestinians, the disagreement between the United States and Europe leads to paralysis despite the fact that we have a military and diplomatic apparatus supported by an economic capacity that lacks parallel in history. It is simply not to believe that we are referred to being spectators of what is now happening in the Middle East. The Sharon government continues to build the wall without concrete obstacles from abroad. While this is happening, support for the two-state solution is disappearing on the Palestinian side in particular. But four to five million Palestinians in the region will not disappear. Neither will the rest of the Muslims in the area. They are becoming more and more furious for every day that goes. This is now directly affecting Europe. We have a scary growing antisemitism in several countries. The race among the great number of Muslims in Europe is growing, also because they experience the same discrimination and degradation here on our continent as they think the West is exposing them to where they came from. There is now a debate in Europe on the nature of the relationship between Europe and the United States. Some call for Europe to spend more money on defence so that Europe can be more respected and listened to in the United States. The man behind Willy Brandt's retirement policy in the 1970s, Egon Bahr, says that this is both pathetic and wasteful with valuable time since no one is able to follow up with necessary appropriations for the defense. In this way, the Europeans' feelings of inferiority will only be strengthened and transatlantic relations will be even more complicated. Egon Bahr believes that a partnership must be developed in which the United States secures the military battle force that is sometimes needed and must be used to establish peace, while Europe's task is to build peace through civil, diplomatic and political instruments. By using these resources, Europe can become an equivalent partner – not unlike the United States, but alongside the United States. We have seen how this combination of American deterrence and European diplomacy has recently worked in one particular case, namely in Iran. We have to be able to make this work in larger parts of the Middle East. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was at NATO's forthcoming summit in Istanbul. The NATO Secretary-General has talked about extending Partnership for the Peace Circle to countries in the Middle East. In my opinion, this could be a good idea. Through the Partnership for Peace Cooperation developed by NATO with countries in south-east Europe and the Caucasus, NATO has probably played a stabilising role in this part of Europe. The defences of these countries have entered into a system of overall democratic control. They have been able to train with NATO, among others. to participate in peacekeeping operations. It is therefore completely incomprehensible that Serbia and Montenegro have not been given access to this cooperation. It has weakened the Western leaders and strengthened the nationalists who are now on strong march again in the country and in the rest of the Balkans. Serbia is the key country in the Balkans. If things go wrong there, a lot can go wrong again. Therefore, they should not only be given the status of a PFP country, but should, in my view, also receive support to participate in the NATO operation in Afghanistan, which its leaders have ambitions to link more closely to Europe and the West. I believe the same thing about the Middle East countries: involve them in a partnership with NATO. With regard to Iraq and NATO, which was also the foreign minister, I would at least like everyone to answer the following questions before rejecting such an commitment: what is the alternative if you want a real multinational presence in the country? What happens if you don't get it? Probably the Americans are getting more and more stuck. I can't mobilize any joy over it, even though I was never against the war so much. On the other hand, it is fully possible to mobilise joy over the prospects of success in Iraq. It would be a strong signal to the rest of the region, a region characterised by stagnation, resignation and frustration, that reforms need to be implemented. This will be the best way to combat the terror that is just coming from the Middle East. Among the 90 million Arabs between 15 and 24 years of age, 14 and 15 million are unemployed. The United States and Western Europe are now investing worldwide, but almost nothing in the Middle East. The reasons are clear, including: because there are old-fashioned and oppressive regimes that have not invested in infrastructure, not in youth education and not in technology. The only thing that is not lacking in this region is rage among the population, especially among young people. The head of the UN Atomic Agency, El Baradei, warned a few days ago against spreading nuclear weapons to private terrorist groups. It was a strong warning. We need to see what is the biggest security problem of our time: the combination of frustrated and angry people and the recruitment basis that this creates for small terrorist cells that can get hold of nuclear weapons. My point is: Transatlantic cooperation was able to deal with the nuclear threat during the Cold War – based on American deterrence, but supplemented by European deterrence policy. I believe that we must deal with the nuclear threat of our time on the basis of the same principle: we need American military force, but it must be subject to international legitimacy and supplemented by European peace building and diplomacy. In my opinion, the main objective of Norwegian foreign policy must be to work towards creating such transatlantic cooperation. It's in every way in our interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e176	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e179	The representative of Ichland went very far in arguing that a common foreign and security policy in Europe was a good argument for us going into the EU and that we should be involved in governing this foreign policy. For me, it seems that I am going here almost beyond what any EU country is doing, in realising a common foreign and security policy. Is this realistic? Is it not also the case that Norway, together with other like-minded countries, should use its ability and willingness to go into the problem areas referred to by Jagland to solve the tasks he himself so well outlined?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e184	I do not know if I go further than any EU country does, but I note that there is a big discussion among EU countries about what to do. I think everyone wants a stronger degree of coordination. Everyone wants Europe to mean more. I believe that we, as a country that is close to the United States historically and otherwise, should be there to work for Europe to become a partner, so that we get a community that can mean something in the world, and not this division that has actually led to quite a degree of paralysis. That is why, in my opinion, we need a strong EU. That should be in Norway's interests. We should address the problems that are being raised. In concrete terms, I don't think you should say no to all the Americans, as I have the impression that some Europeans are now doing almost on reflexes. As long as it comes from the United States, you're against it. For example, I have seen that many have been negative to this with Partnership for Peace towards the Middle East, which I think is a good idea precisely because it can contribute to something concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e191	The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee noted that Norway needs friends — and friends with military force. There may be some embedded problems in it as well. We see that in recent years we have come into the situation that Norway participates in military operations during both clear and unclear UN mandates. The main trend is that these operations are led by the U.S. in the operational phase and a piece on until a so-called say is won. Then come coalitions of different kinds, the United Nations, the EU, NATO and Norway, who are involved in the cleanup or stabilisation work, while the United States has already moved on to the next goal, the next country to fight against. In a comment in the evening post, Jan Otto Johansen calls this a «militarisation of foreign and security policy». Even militaryly, there is criticism of this development, in which the military seized tasks that naturally belong to the homes of civilian bodies. How does the Labour Party view this development, where a constant search for military solutions to complex political problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e198	It is good that this debate is being held, but let us be a little specific about what has happened. What opportunities existed in the Balkans? In fact, what happened was that the European countries begged for the Americans to come, after the Serbs shot this rocket down to the market in Sarajevo, and the massacre of 7,000 people in Srebrenica had almost been witnessed — and ethnic cleansing continued. This is a good example of the fact that sometimes military policies have to be supported. When it came to Afghanistan, it was a unanimous decision in the UN Security Council that authorized an attack on the country after the US was attacked on 11 September – no one protested against it. The Iraq war was highly divided; we opposed it because it had no international mandate. But that's where you come up with what Bjørn Jacobsen just mentioned, that it's not just a very big problem, but it's an overwhelming problem if you were to get the development that you're going to military action without international mandates. But for that reason, we must not reject the fact that it is actually necessary in concrete situations to resort to military intervention in order to create peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e205	It's always interesting to listen to the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee, it's power and it's analyses that are exciting to hear. It is also a dream that lies beneath all his posts, and it is the dream of Norway's membership of the EU. I won't take from Jagland that dream. But is it not important in a foreign policy debate to also analyse how we use the independence we actually have in relation to the EU, to be a bridge between Europe and the United States, to be able to lead on some international issues? That analysis seemed to me to be missing in the post to Jagland, and now I want to allow him to supplement the post with what it is Norway can really do in the current situation until the Jagland dream is fulfilled. Otherwise, I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to give full support to the analysis of the Jagland representative in relation to the Balkans and to the view of the Partnership for Peace and their role in a larger area than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e214	The representative Jon Lilletun is always a shy and liberal politician, so he gives me new opportunities, and I'm going to use this opportunity. Well, that's a very important point Lilletun has here. Obviously, we can use the situation we have for something positive, and so can we. Alternative governments have done so, and the sitting government does so in an excellent way through various peace operations, which the Foreign Minister was also involved in his intervention. I believe that we can use the situation we have, not to be either for all the European country does, or for everything they do, or to be against everything the Americans do, or for everything. I think we can sit a little independent and be critical and positive. And as I said, when, in some European circles, one is almost of reflex towards all the Americans, I don't think so, because it's often good ideas that I think we should be able to talk to the Europeans about, for example. as regards this with the Partnership for Peace. But I am also very critical of what both Europe and the United States have done, for example. in relation to the former Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e222	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e225	In his statement to the Stortinge two days ago, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said that Norway no longer appears to be threatened but as a ‘privileged behaviour in one of the world’s calmest corners’. I actually think that it could have been expressed even stronger than that, maybe it could be impressive to say that we appear to be the most privileged race in the world's calmest corner. Yeah, maybe you could allow yourself to go another step further and say that we don't just look like that in relation to the outside world, but we're actually the most privileged race in the world's calmest corner. At the same time, it is important to be aware that the calmest corner of this world is also undergoing transformation. From 1 May of the current year, Poland and the three Baltic countries will be members of both NATO, of which they are from before, and of the European Union. Of the Nordic countries, only one is formally in the same position, namely Denmark, but Denmark, as is well known, has very strong reservations embedded in its EU membership, which means that they will not be able to participate to such an extent in the cooperation on a common foreign and defence policy that the new Member States can make. Of the five Nordic countries, three are members of the European Union, two are not. There are three that are members of NATO, two that are not. This means that the architecture of the Baltic region has changed quite radically from the current year. This presents a challenge in the sense that if the world’s calmest corner is to make a good contribution to stable development not only in the neighbourhoods of Europe – I am thinking first of all of the great neighbour in the east, Russia – but also of being able to make a powerful contribution to world policy, it will confront us with very great demands in terms of exploiting the opportunities for cooperation that exist. The Nordic Prime Ministers agreed last year to hold informal consultations prior to the major meetings of the EU. There is one step towards coordination that can be significant. I also believe it is important to be aware that, in particular, the three Baltic countries have great expectations for their further cooperation with the Nordic countries, including the two Nordic countries which are not members of the EU, Iceland and Norway. I share the view expressed by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs regarding Norway's position in the European image. Regardless of the feelings you may feel about EU cooperation and its further development, it is clear that there is a significant handicap in the transformation situation in Europe today, to participate in one of the two key forums where foreign and security policy issues are addressed, in our case NATO, and not participate in the other. Compared to the countries that participate fully and without reserveasjos in both of these co-operation forums, it is clear that we are initially making the influence weaker, and also in caring for our own Norwegian interests. We are given the opportunity to elaborate on this issue to some extent when we come to case no. 2 on today's map, which is about the extension of the EEA Agreement, so I'm not going to go into this here and now. The Middle East complex is – and has been for decades – one of the most difficult complexes on the world’s political agenda. I noticed with interest that this time the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee did not express himself in the same way as he has sometimes done in the past, where he has formulated himself so that a solution to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians is a prerequisite or a condition for a new movement in the region as a whole. I think that's a step in the right direction, because if you commit yourself to a thought of the order in which the problems need to be solved, you might risk playing some of the possibilities that might be present. It is quite clear that the political challenges in this region are closely linked. A survey on the population of the Arab countries recently published shows that at the grassroots in these countries there is an astonishing upsurge in democracy as a form of governance and a longing to experience a free society where everyone can fight in security for their convictions, where different religious and political views can be broken against each other without anyone risking represals because they stand for a different opinion than the majority. The paradox is that comparing similar studies in European countries may seem to be that the emergence of democracy is greater in those countries that have never experienced it than it is in those countries that have been able to develop democracy as a form of governance for a relatively long time. This represents a political challenge. That's not how you sometimes get the impression of the cliché images, that there are massive blocks of a religious or ideological nature facing the other. The people, the grassroots, are definitely not against each other. It is also the crossroads of thought in the locked conflict between Israel and the Palestinians that there is evidence that the majority of the population on both sides have one overall desire, namely to find a pragmatic, sensible solution to peace where both parties must renounce any of their interests. The question is that political leadership does not seem to be able to realise the will of the people in such a way that positive and forward-looking development can be achieved. The most important thing that can be done by the outside world, I think, is to find agreed ‘reward mechanisms’ that allow political leadership to feel attracted to pragmatic negotiation solutions, rather than to play on xenophobia and xenophobia. Norway is the most privileged race in the world's most serene corner. There may be reason to quote from the Holy Scriptures at last, where it says that "the one who is much trusted shall be required to do so more". It may be a useful starting point for our efforts in international policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e257	I assume that this is the word of Scripture as Mr. Wages are in the back of his mind when he also speaks about European policy on behalf of the government party, because it is a demanding task. But Inge Wohnning had a long run and pointed to Thorbjørn Jagland’s hope — so to speak — when it came to the conclusion of what Norway should do in relation to European cooperation. It is true, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement — at least a little rewriting — that Norway has gone from being exposed to being excluded. So we have to be with where things happen. In Norway, from time to time, a stronger European cooperation in the field of defence and security policy is a threat to cooperation in NATO and a threat to peace. But I understand Inge Wohnung so that he too agrees that stronger cooperation in Europe on defence and security policy is a basis for a still strong NATO and for a still safe Norway, and that there is no contradiction in this, as many try to make it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e264	The representative of Blankenborg is quite right in his interpretation. I do not believe that there is any contradiction between NATO cooperation and cooperation on foreign and security policy within the framework of the European Union. They complement each other — it is in the nature of the case that the actors are practically the same, with some exceptions, including Norway, which participates only in one place. My main point was and is that our ability to influence processes, and also influence in the sense that there are no strong conflicts of interest between what is happening in NATO cooperation and what is happening in EU cooperation, would certainly increase self-evidently if we were with both sides. Otherwise, I can only wish the Workers' Party happiness in deciding how they view Norwegian EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e273	In fact, although it is stated that there is a very clear willingness to coordinate foreign policy both in the EU and in NATO, it is seen in practical life that it is not. There is considerable inequality between European countries and also between European countries and the United States. It'll probably be like that for a long time to come. This applies in particular to the relationship with Iraq — a theme not affected by Inge Wohnung. I therefore allow myself to ask a question. It's a very serious matter to go to war. This war did not have political legitimacy; it would all agree, because it was not in the hands of a United Nations mandate. We have consistently argued that it did not have moral legitimacy, and the Government has also agreed that this war did not have it. The last one that was out there and said that there probably won't be any weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, was Dick Cheney. He said that two days ago. My question to Inge Wohnning is: Does he agree that the war that started in the United States has neither political nor moral legitimacy? Does the Norwegian Government and Inge Wage agree with such a statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e282	This debate has been repeated a number of times in Stortinget during the last year. I'm not sure the most useful thing to do is to discuss the wars that fell last year. What, in my opinion, is more interesting in today's situation is that a unanimous UN Security Council has twice addressed all UN member states and asked them – in the last resolution, even the term 'bes intrusive' – to contribute to the stabilisation and reconstruction of Iraq. I think it is a little remarkable that those who in this Chamber have been particularly concerned about Norway's relationship with the UN and respect for the role of the UN Security Council in the context of world peace seem to be very little interested in those very resolutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e289	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e292	Two and a half years have passed since 11 September 2001, and much has happened. Keywords are Afghanistan and Iraq. But perhaps just as important and equally serious is what we now experience from a sharper distinction between some nations and people. The committee leader, Jagland, pointed this out in his speech. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also addressed this and parts of this problem in what was perhaps the most exciting phrase in the statement, which he referred to as ‘lack of dynamism in many Arab countries’. This is becoming increasingly clear, and it is one of the greatest challenges of our time. Just look at the unemployment rate among Arab youth: Of 90 million Arab youths between 15 and 24 years of age, 14 million are unemployed. We are dealing with a failing education system and a lack of innovation and progress leading to poverty and hopelessness. Something is fundamentally wrong. It's not about Islam or Christianity or any other religion. It is primarily about democracy or totalitarian regimes, freedom of expression and freedom of the press versus control and coercion. It's about recognizing that the Arab countries are mainly governed by leaders and intellectuals who are more concerned with their own control, past missteps and religious conflict. The Arab countries are good at blaming everyone else for their own problems, but show little ability and willingness to solve the problems of their people. There is something wrong in a society that celebrates martyrs and suicide bombers as heroes, and that worships death rather than life. Turkey and Lebanon can emerge as examples of alternatives to the Muslim world. Lebanon is per year. Today is not a good example, but it is mainly because of Syria's de facto occupation of the country, and not what has traditionally marked Lebanon. Today, Turkey appears to be a robust nation with a multi-level democracy but nevertheless a country worthy of recognition. Turkey has also experienced suicide bombers, relatively recently against a synagogue in Istanbul — Turkish youth driven by hatred against Israel and against Jews. But unlike other places in the Arab world where Jews are attacked by suicide bombers and bred as heroes, Turkish society showed a completely different attitude. We felt that the Turkish leaders, who themselves represented an Islamic party, marked disgust at such actions, and they stretched out a hand against the Jewish community in Istanbul. We felt that the parents of the suicide bombers separated from their child’s actions and apologized. What we saw in Turkey was normal human reactions to cruel and incomprehensible actions. We felt that democratic leaders who are accountable to their voters have to distance themselves from such actions. The contrast to the cultivation of the same actions among the Palestinians becomes enormous. How, then, are we going to act on the European side to promote the positive dynamics of the Arab world? That's the big challenge. It is at least about recognising Turkey for the progress that is being made, and to the extent that we have the opportunity, to ensure that the EU does not cut the ties to that country, but ensures that one of the few moderate and democratic Muslim nations is given a chance of equivalence and participation in Europe. Let's hope that it can be an inspiration for the population elsewhere. Isolation and rejection of Turkey's efforts will only further strengthen the distinction between the Western and Islamic world. The Israel/Palestina conflict is used as a pretext for missing reforms in many Muslim countries. In addition, it contributes to an ever-increasing hatred of Jews, Israel and the United States. This is scary and scary. A few years ago, the Palestinians were able to get 95 pst. of their claims, but they rejected. Israel stretched very far under Barak's leadership to find a peaceful solution, but it was rejected. Just before the elections in Israel in 2001, Arafat had the chance to express his will for peace with Peres, and thus he could give Barak the opportunity for re-election. Instead, Arafat expelled Israel and accused Israel of being a fascist military force. This went directly on Israeli TV. Sharon won, not least thanks to Arafat's no to peace. But the world quickly forgets. Once again, almost all the focus is on Israel, which has all the blame. Unfortunately, some of us do not believe that peace is possible as long as the Palestinians are not forced to do so. Our trust in Palestinian leadership is slim. Not that we always see so much light and hope on the Israeli side either, but we believe that once again the initiative for peace must come from here. I think it would be in Israeli interest to be present and again invite to an agreement with the background in the rejected Clinton Plan, set up some fundamental demands for security, include the international community and give the Palestinians some real choices. So far they have been able to run away from all responsibility. It has to end. Now the Palestinians also have to take some tough priorities. If Israel and the United States do not now show will, we are at risk of a world that will be even more affected by hatred and violence against Jews, Israel and the United States. And all this hatred delays reform and democracy and the abolition of antiquarian regimes. The Progress Party is primarily opposed to providing funds to the Palestinian self-government authorities. This is for several reasons, but also because aid is still being found to be misused and used to strengthen some managers’ bank accounts. Unfortunately, we lost that fight during the budgetary procedure. Now there is a slight positive change on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that is the signal that part of the aid will be made dependent on reforms on the Palestinian side. We believe that this idea is undoubtedly so right and necessary that we will ask for all funds to be channelled in this way, and we believe that this can be an instrument for making larger parts of Palestinian leadership behave in a way that we as donor countries can be aware of. I would like to refer to the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber. Norwegian policy against Iran is problematic. I have tried, among other things. by letter to the Government on this matter. The conclusion, as I see it, is that we have an excellent dialogue with the Iranian regime, and that we don't want to get too involved in how Iran is governed. Dialogue can be good and is usually preferable to isolation. But at some point you have to ask yourself whether you are dealing with a regime with which you can engage in constructive dialogue. I choose to compare today's Iran with South Africa under apartheid. And there we chose not dialogue, but boycott. There we actively chose to encourage and support the opposition to the regime. I'm not saying that we are now going to copy our policy towards South Africa in relation to today's Iran, but I'm saying that we have some choices we can make and that I think we should consider. Despite the fact that I am asking the Government to look critically at its Iran policy, the Progress Party is concerned that our foreign policy needs to reflect more strongly the interests of our business life. This is true in the EEA context, which we will come back to later today, and it is not least in WTO work. Furthermore, assistance and Norwegian business needs to be more closely linked and, in our view, business interests need to be highlighted more strongly throughout our foreign policy work. I will not dwell too much on lost battles, but the closure of three consulates last year showed us that it was not business interests that were prioritised. A stronger priority of what Norwegian foreign policy should achieve may well be worth implementing. Although this is a great deal of consensus, today’s Norwegian foreign policy is characterised by Norway’s fading too far, and by our involvement in too many fields, even in areas where there is little impact, not least for Norway. Security is the fundamental. I've mentioned the business interests. Energy and fishing resources are carriers that we have to take care of. Along these axes and in an international community, it should be possible to give priority to interventions which, hopefully, may be somewhat more focused and focused on important national interests than is the case today. Our policy for the north is an example where there seems to be a down-priority for tasks in more remote areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e324	The representative of Morten Höglund has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e329	I saw in the newspaper some time ago that a selection had found out that everyone who sells kebab in Norway supports terrorists. Now I heard Morten Höglund mention the Arab countries in the same way: is one from an Arab country, supports also terrorism. Who are these Arab countries that the representative of Høglund refers to in such an approximate way? I'd really like to do that to the right. But then to Europe. The Progress Party has agreed that Europe is too important for growth and government. It's the people who are going to decide what Norway is going to do there. Høglund produced it as if Thorbjørn Jagland were going beyond what the rest of Europe is doing when it comes to defence and security cooperation in Europe. It is then quite strong that we from Norway can go further than those who actually cooperate on this, who have agreed on a planning cell and decide that they will take over Bosnia, etc. I would like to right if it is not also a goal for the Progress Party that Norway should participate when Europe cooperates on such issues, to participate in Brussels, to participate in Bosnia, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e337	In my speech, I mentioned the lack of reforms, the lack of democracy and a population oppressed in the Arab world, but I did not make any connection in my speech between the Arab countries and terrorism. I was also careful to say that it was the regimes, the rulers, that were the problem, and far from the population as such. I believe, as others have also pointed out here today, that the majority of the population of Arab countries want democracy and freedom, as we do. Of course, we should participate with other European countries in projects and in tasks in which it is natural to participate. We believe, for our part, that foreign and security policy is a task for the nation state and that security policy should be managed in the NATO context and thus not be subject to a common policy area in the EU, but that does not mean that we do not cooperate where it is natural.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e342	Like the representative Blankenburg, I react to the fact that the representative, Mr Höglund, refers in his speech to the Arab countries in a general way in terms of their repression of democracy. The representative for Wage said that there are studies to this effect, and the UNDP’s ‘Arab Human Development Report’, which did not come so long ago, shows that 60 pst. actually by the people of these countries want democratic rule. Of course, they want to keep their traditions and beliefs, but they certainly want individual legal certainty and representative governance. I want to go a little further and ask if the Progress Party agrees that it must be an important part of our Middle East policy to also support these positive forces in the people of Arab countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e351	Yes, of course we should support this. If 60 pst. of the population want this — I think the number is much higher — all possibilities should be present. The problem is they don't have free choice. I'm being challenged to generalise about the Arab states. I mentioned some exceptions. Turkey is not an Arab state, but it is a Muslim state that lies in the area and is a positive example for the Arab world. I want to challenge back to those who say that I am generalizing, to show Arab countries that appear to be good democratic examples. I don't find many. These are skin democracies.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e356	The representative, Høglund, spoke for the good will of Israel. This good will may well be considered questionable. But over to the concrete. Unfortunately, Israel has now decided to support the construction of the wall, or the barrier of separation, at a height of 9 metres on Palestinian soil, despite very extensive protests from the international community. This creates very big problems, and the rascal increases. What is the attitude of the Progress Party towards the construction of this wall? And does Høglund think that this wall will solve the security problems between Palestinians and Israelis?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e363	If it was so simple that a wall could solve the problem, we could certainly consider hugging and cheering for the construction of it. Unfortunately, the wall is an expression of how stuck the situation is when the parties are not talking. Of course, we should like to see an instrument like a wall as something you did not use. At the same time, there is an expression of the hopelessness that exists on the Israeli side, if not daily, then at least weekly experiences attacks where one's own civilian population is affected and killed. It is understood that the use of instruments which, from our point of view, do not seem natural, which do not seem reasonable in a democracy. I don't think it's a good move, but we also have to try to figure out what the situation is like on the Israeli side.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e368	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e371	It is striking how militarized foreign debates in the United Kingdom and elsewhere have been lately, and especially since 11 September 2001. U.S. journalist Dana Priest recently published a book on how US foreign policy is increasingly militarized. She talks about the shift of power in the United States where Central Command is growing more and more than the State Department, and where developments are increasingly moving towards military instruments to solve major foreign policy challenges. It has become easier to resort to military use in recent years, and it seems as if the threshold of how serious it is to go to war has been lowered. Of course, in the Norwegian debate too, the discussion of military participation in Afghanistan and Iraq has been overwhelming in the foreign debates in recent years. That's the way it's necessarily going to be. Military use of power is the most dramatic of all in international policy, but it is easily overshadowing what is the most important international effort, the fight against poverty, conflict prevention, etc. Of course, on the international agenda, it is the areas where the most important thing, namely prevention, is to lose sight of what CNN is doing. But the Foreign Minister's presentation offers an opportunity to take a slightly wider view than what has shaped much of the recent foreign policy debate in the United Kingdom, namely acute crises and conflicts. SV is pleased that during the spring we will have a wide-ranging debate on development policy, because there will be a separate big message on this. We are also pleased that the communication on globalisation is about to be addressed. It gives us an opportunity for a broader review of international relations. However, in the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement, we do miss a closer review of the link between poverty reduction on the one hand and security policy on the other. Norwegian foreign policy is very much influenced by the fact that we have one superpower in the world that is attuned to its own best. Bush’s last State of the Union speech is a very good proof of that. Within the most United States and NATO friendly circles in Norway, this is a major concern, whereas in the political environment and in the major debates it is of less importance. Nils Morten Udgaard has an article in the Evening Post on 22 January on these matters – a very concerned article. And he's not an SV, let's get it fixed! He concludes as follows: ‘NATO has been the carrier of the relationship between the United States and Europe for more than 50 years. Now Bush sees the alliance increasingly as a political and military toolbox for the United States, and not as a common political workshop. It's something quite new." For SV, it is strange that this recognition is not clearer from the Government or from the Workers’ Party in the debate on Norway’s relationship with the United States and Norway’s foreign policy. There must then be more than SV who find it regrettable when Bush uses Norway's participation in Iraq as an argument against stronger UN governance and as an argument for how internationalised it is, while many of the EU countries with which Iland would like to exist are far more critical and call for a completely different international approach to this conflict. It is also strange to us that there is no greater concern about the duality of Norway's participation in Iraq, the ambiguity that must be around our participation, in that we are in a relationship with parts of the occupying power, but have our own mandate, which we call our own humanitarian mission. Although recent manufacturing has been misunderstood and exaggerated in relation to how it is formally linked, it is actually still a problem, precisely because the situation on the ground is unclear. Jan Petersen places great emphasis on the transatlantic bonds. It's a very famous favourite theme for us who've known Jan Petersen for many years. But we think it is very strange that he does not go much closer to the analysis that is needed: what is actually NATO today? It is not worth a word by Bush, but is therefore the support of Norwegian security policy. It is known that it was at the initiative of NATO that Article 5 of the Atlantic Pact was invoked following the terrorist attack on 11 September – not at the initiative of the United States. And when the war against Afghanistan started, the United States had no need to call on the solidarity of the alliance. Now NATO is responsible for the ISAF forces in Afghanistan, while ‘Enduring Freedom’ is still under the command of the United States and is ongoing outside Kabul. Now the discussion starts about whether NATO is going to play a role in Iraq, but we do not get any views from the Government about how this is going to happen. The main evidence that foreign policy is increasingly militarized is, of course, the build-up of NATO’s rapid reaction force. Norway should also contribute heavily to this. There are going to be considerable resources and a lot of staff. So it's a force that you set up to be able to operate around the world at five days' notice. There are many important and important issues that deserve greater attention: how in the world should it be possible to address this democratically, and in what way should it be governed? How successful has the unilateral focus on military instruments in the fight against terrorism since 11 September been? Although SV was against the US attacking Afghanistan, the military attacks against Al Qaeda have provided results for training opportunities and weaponry for Al Qaeda. But you haven't succeeded in taking the leader, Bin Laden, who, with his very existence, burns up terror in many places. The situation is still very serious and may become more serious. The Taliban is strengthening again. Local warlords are recruiting again. Opium cultivation is about to recover. It will take many years to sum up whether the war against Afghanistan was successful. With regard to the situation of women in Afghanistan, we get many reports that it is heading towards deterioration. The total effort against terrorism and the war against Iraq in the context of the fight against terrorism cannot be summed up as a success. Iraq is now a pullover for terrorist groupings throughout the region, and suicide operations are being carried out almost daily against the occupying power, not least against civilian Iraqis. There's the biggest losses. Not only SV is critical of this. A short time ago, guest professor Jeffrey Record of the U.S. Army War School strongly criticized the fact that the U.S. in Iraq has opened up a new front and made the strategy of counter-terrorism very unclear. This whole curtain that I'm now drawing is a reason why we need to focus to a much greater extent on what actually works in the fight against terrorism. Military power can never be anything but a small part and can never be what in the long run stabilizes. The threat of terrorism must be faced with a wide range of instruments, where intelligence and civil reconstruction must be the main pillars ahead. It is very important that Norway is using its voice internationally to present this. Then there is also a much more critical review in the Storting of what kind of intelligence and on what background one has now decided to go to war against Iraq. It frustrates us that the discussion about intelligence manipulation, which is now documented in Hutton's report at the latest, goes very much elsewhere, but not in the main hall. It's going to be a big challenge and a problem for Norway, because we're also dependent on the intelligence we get from other nations when we're going to make decisions as a small country. It is important that the Foreign Minister focuses so strongly on the situation in the northern regions. It was reported on the radio today that half of all Russian children live below the poverty line. The border between Norway and Russia is one of the boundaries in the world with the greatest differences in living standards from one side to the other. We have a very big problem with nuclear safety in the North. The focus in the Norwegian foreign debate should be much greater on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e411	If I understood correctly, SV is busy becoming a government party at the first and best apartment. In that perspective, it would be interesting if Kristin Halvorsen had also mentioned SV's imaginable foreign policy, and not just expressed himself on how to think in Washington and anywhere else. When we considered the ratification of the NATO extension, SV voted for the extension. As far as I know, it is still in the party's program that you want Norway to leave NATO. Later today, if I have understood correctly, SV intends to vote against both the EEA Agreement and the EEA Agreement. There is some uncertainty about what is SV's foreign policy. If Kristin Halvorsen also wanted to tell the Stortinget, it would have been interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e418	Yes, SV is a party based on resistance to Norwegian NATO membership and a very fundamental critical attitude to upgrading, in particular to nuclear disarmament. In SV we think it is important to hold up the criticism of NATO's contribution to upgrading, but what matters more to us now is really the displacement of strength that has been in the relationship between NATO and the United States. It's actually like the United States is calling on NATO when it suits them, like individual countries in NATO. So NATO's role and significance have been significantly devalued in recent times. SV has never had a demonstration proposal that Norway should report out of NATO, but we are concerned that Norway does not take the position that we are dilting after the United States in one and the same. It is fully possible to pursue that policy also within the agreements Norway is part of today, and it is fully possible to have an alternative and critical attitude to this. There are many other NATO countries that are actually doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e425	The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, sees in every respect in the United States as the big, ugly wolf who makes up his mind. She gets to mean what she wants, but it can't be right to close your eyes when you see people being killed. Many times it is necessary to use weapons to stop the wrongs committed against fellow humans. Does not Kristin Halvorsen see that, in some cases, weapons must be used when other instruments do not reach? As Överland said, 'You must not tolerate so deeply the wrong that does not strike you!'
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e431	Yes, SV is not a pacifist party. In SV we believe that it is necessary to use arms in some cases, but we are very concerned that there should be a mandate under international law. The use of power in the international community cannot be legitimate unless there is a very clear mandate from the UN. We can't have a world order that is such that one of the exclusive superpowers can, at its own discretion, get along with what is the most serious instrument of international politics, namely going to war. I do not expect the biggest criticism of the United States to come from the Progress Party. But I think it should be interesting for the Progress Party too that the debate on the exercise of the U.S. foreign policy by the Bush administration goes high and wide, far beyond what is the Norwegian left-hand debate forum.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e438	First of all, I would like to note that there was no clear response from the representative, Halvorsen, to the representative, on the question of how a government party would handle NATO membership, EEA membership, etc., and whether a member of the government would agree to enter and become a part of a government that is clear in relation to the obligations. It is clear that this is an important part of the debate. And then I want to challenge the representative of the Halvorsen on the fact that traveling to Serbia, the democratic forces will have a hunch – that they can get closer to NATO. If they travel to the former Eastern European countries, they have a main insight—to get closer to NATO. What kind of requirements does NATO see very often? Well, it's that they have to deal with their minorities, border issues and democratic institutions. These values are rarely mentioned by the representative Halvorsen. It would be interesting to give her the opportunity to comment on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e445	That's what Kristin Halvorsen is going to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e448	Let me make it quite clear: Norway’s NATO membership or Norway’s EEA agreement will not be closed for any government participation by SV. But we're extremely concerned about using the political space we actually have. It can be exploited to a much greater extent than the current government does, both in terms of the EEA, to which we come back later today, and in terms of NATO. It is not that Norwegian NATO membership obliges us to be more pro-US foreign policy than many Americans and large parts of the US Congress are. So to this which is about the requirements that NATO imposes on new Member States. We have not gone against countries wishing to join NATO having the opportunity to do so. We believe that this is a national decision in each country. It is also the case that both the EU and NATO can make reasonable demands for democratic development, questions about minorities, etc., when there are questions of admission to these organisations. That makes sense. On the record, I just want to say one thing: in my script, there was a bit about the EU that I never came to. It is not because SV is not concerned with the EU, but I expect that the next debate may be more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e457	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e460	I allow myself to repeat to the reply to the reply that I perceive it so that the representative Halvorsen thought there were positive elements in NATO's charter and in NATO's way of working that make the democratic forces seek it, contrary to the strongly nationalist who want other solutions. It was in itself interesting. In the debate we had before Christmas, several of the parties stressed that Norway is a country known for serving peace. It's still going to be our license plate as a nation. Norwegian foreign policy should, on the one hand, promote Norwegian interests; it is basically a self-evident thing, but Norway should also participate and contribute where we do not have national interests, because there is someone else who needs us to be there. This is a foreign policy line we can be a little proud of, at least if we sympathize to let action come after our words. Peace building means that we act, and that we do something concrete, as we do, for example. do in Sudan, Afghanistan and Sri Lanka. The Foreign Minister stressed that threats to peace look different today than they did during the cold war. Today, peace is often threatened by civil wars and internal conflicts and by non-governmental actors such as the Al Qaida terrorist network. Norwegian foreign policy and security policy must be set up in such a way that we are offered to meet these new threats. This requires other solutions and a different policy than during the Cold War. Terrorism is a serious threat to the world today. We have to do something about this. It is not an option to just bet on weapons power, monitoring and metal detectors, even if this is necessary. In addition, we need to focus on removing the fundamental causes of terrorism. Unemployment, poverty and the lack of hope are causing people to be recruited to become terrorists, as the leader of the committee pointed out in his speech earlier today. An experience of being a leading and second-class citizen in the world has the same effect. We have to and can do something about this. Norway cannot finance development aid for all purposes, but we can do our part. Norwegian development policy has primarily a humanitarian, co-human objective. But a world where our children can eat saturation in the evening, where one has a job to go to, is also a safer value for all of us. This is why development policy is at the heart of Norwegian foreign policy. The situation in different countries can also make it natural for Norway to take part in military missions. We discussed this in depth in the debate on 17 December last year, but let me say that the main point: for Norwegian participation in military operations, it is a clear requirement that the operation complies with international law. All use of power must be based on international law, either through the consent of the parties, through the right to self-defence or through a mandate of the UN Security Council. This meant that we did not participate in the war against Iraq, because this was not a clear mandate for international law. Now the situation is different, after the UN Security Council has clearly asked the UN member countries to set up different kinds of assistance, including military contributions. Here I must say that I am wondering something about the debate, because when it is so that the UN asks for it, it seems surprising to me that a long time ago problems that Norway is there. Obviously, this is a dilemma. It is clear that it is not easy for an Iraqi civilian to see differences between military forces. But how are we going to meet the UN's wish, which says it's fundamentally important that we are there, if not these dilemmas are there? I think the debate that is going on is too simple, when every single time there's any suggestion about this, repeats that we shouldn't have been there. No, well, until those who talk so much about the United Nations and strengthening the United Nations – it becomes completely unthinkable that one does not problem the part pertaining to the participation in Iraq. It's full of dilemma. Nevertheless, if we are to do as the United Nations has said, and follow a UN line, we must also be willing to stand in the dilemmas and participate. Norway has set up military teams to help stabilise and carry out important humanitarian tasks. This is a kind of help that the Iraqi people need. I would also like to point out what I said in the debate before Christmas. It may well be that we should give priority to setting up in areas other than Iraq with our limited resources. At least that is true of Kosovo and Afghanistan, and we also hope that in Sudan there will be a peace that gives us reason to stand up. The Foreign Minister said that there was a break on Monday in the negotiations in Sudan, but that he hopes and believes that an agreement can be in port during February. I strongly subscribe to the foreign minister's hope. As the Foreign Minister said, the role of Norway in the peace building in Sudan is committed. If a final agreement is reached, there will be a need for military forces to monitor the new and destroy peace. Norway and Norwegian forces have played an important role in the peace process. Norwegian soldiers will have high trust as a neutral party. I would therefore like to welcome the participation of Norway in a United Nations-led force in Sudan. I would also like to point out another important issue for the Christian People's Party in foreign policy – the work on human rights. Our thinking is based on the Christian view of man. It brings with it the principle view of human dignity that all human beings have the same value. Such a notion of human dignity is far from self-evident. History and our time are full of examples of degradation of human dignity – genocide, slavery, torture, racial discrimination, ethnic oppression. We must protest against that. I will take particular note of the need to fight for religious freedom for all religions in all countries. I was actually shocked when the French government, in a way the cradle of democracy, would refuse Muslim schoolchildren to have a skate over their heads if they wanted it. There is really oppression and totally misunderstood pressure to make everyone look the same or at least the same. Equality is not the same as equivalency, and the absence of religious expressions is not religious freedom. That's actually the opposite. Even worse, of course, it is when people are imprisoned, tortured or killed for their faith or to go over to another belief than the one they have per. date, as we see it in too many countries. I know it's not easy to deal with the government of the country that's in debt. I have experienced this myself when I have visited different countries, but we still have an obligation to try and try again. The desire for good relations in economic relations must not silence us on the issue of human rights. Religion is very often the basis for a conflict, but by strengthening the religious dialogue in the international community it should be so that religion can and must be redefined from being part of the problem to be part of the solution. The situation in the Middle East is still very depressing for those who live there, whether they are Israelis or Palestinians. The situation seems inconclusive, but there is still a conflict we are forced to resolve, because it is a lighthouse conflict that hundreds of millions of Muslims see as a symbol. The solution will have to provide a two-state solution. Both Ariel Sharon and Yasir Arafat have joined that principle. We must never accept that the Jews like people are to blame for a government's actions. We see frightening things happening in Europe, for example. in France, where atrocities against synagogues, even fires, occur in Jewish communities. We never have to accept that. We can use an explanation model, but we must never accept that it triggers such actions. We must not accept authority against civilians as an instrument, not from any population. So a few words about the Balkans. We see in the choices that have now been made that there has been a strengthening of the more nationalistic forces. However, I would like to express the hope that the elections in Croatia have resulted in a good government that seems to have a programme where a search is to carry out a work that is moving towards Europe, NATO and democratisation. In my view, it is very important that Norway continues its work for the Balkans and that one affects the other countries of NATO when it relates to Serbia. Serbia, as the leader of the Committee on Foreign Affairs said, is a key nation in the Balkans, and it is very important that they are not pushed back into extreme nationalism. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for what he and his people have done so far and challenge them to stand firmly on ahead to get Serbia included in the Western community under democratic forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e483	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e486	First two brief comments to Serbia. Of course, Lilletun is right in what he says, but what Serbia first and foremost experiences is that it's forgotten. Circus the World Sovereign has traveled on to the next war. The Serbs feel they're forgotten. There are no funds at this time for the setup that they need. And then we also have to go to the right of Norway, for example. Norway Peace Council, which represents a great many voluntary organizations. They say that Norway's military efforts in Iraq do not support the alleged humanitarian objectives. We've seen that first there was humanitarian action, then it was allowed to shoot in self-defense, and then it was allowed to shoot if the British were attacked. So one has always moved these engagement rules. We have had a debate in the last few days on how the rules have been in relation to the Norwegian exceptions. But what I want to ask Jon Lilletun about today is every word 'humanitarian' came in when one was going to send soldiers to Iraq. How did one at all use the word "humanitarian"? Was it because one picked up millions from the aid budget to pay the solar data, or was it to get the Norwegian opinion to believe that one was not part of the US occupying forces?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e495	I agree with Jacobsen's representative that there are many dilemmas about the presence of forces in Iraq. However, I do feel that both the Norwegian Peace Council, the representative Jacobsen and the SV and some others go into the grave that one supports the UN as long as one has a political position in which one agrees with the UN. On the day the United Nations asks for another kind of effort, and if it coincides with what the United States has also asked for, the will to separate is less. I thought there would be a lack of primacy. The word 'humanitarian' came in because it came into the United Nations resolutions on these forces. Then we can discuss what would have given the most humanitarian aid, strengths or voluntary organizations. But then I come back to the fact that the United Nations has not only said that it is okay, but would ask that forces should be made available internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e502	I'm not going to ask Jon Lilletun to deal directly with the internal government negotiations, but we know that there were differences of opinion about whether or not to support the US occupation. We know that Norway is reporting forces before the first UN resolution was in place. The dilemma Lilletun raises to ask SV is true if we do not want to support the UN in all contexts. Well, we will, and we'll also look at the processes that are behind before you get a decision in the Security Council. We know that we have been in situations where we have been on the verge of international law, although international law is so dynamic that it will be able to change and be situation-determined. But we're also concerned that he's not going to get watered down. So I want to ask the representative Lilletun if he thinks that international law has been watered down in the last resolutions in connection with the occupying forces in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e509	I assume that the representative Jacobsen now meant the stabilisation forces and not the occupation forces, because the UN has never accepted the occupation forces. This is after memory, but I think it's such that it wasn't about Norwegian forces until the first decision was taken in the UN. I agree with the representative Jacobsen that it is not as clear as the last decision, but it is quite clear that one is opening up to forces and that it is in accordance with international law to send forces. I think it's going to be hard to find some international law teacher who says something other than that. But the intensity of the UN decision is quite another in the last decision. So I think we're on a safe footing with international law. I still believe that SV has not responded to how they can be so intensely opposed to stabilisation forces since the last decision taken in the UN Security Council. I mean, there's a not as solid on a UN line as it's been all the time claiming to be ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e517	I can't dive--I just have to challenge Lilletun to call a spade for a spade. I think the debate had stood on that. As far as I remember, there was a meeting of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee on 12 May, and the UN's first resolution came on 19 May. Norway was on the plate to report forces to participate in Iraq before one can talk about that there was a clear UN mandate. Anywhere other than in the staging room, in military circles, in research circles around, it is said that it was necessary, after Norway went against the war, to restore the good ties over the Atlantic and the transatlantic bonds. That's what you're talking about, if that's what you're talking about. Then I'd like to ask Lilletun, isn't it just like that? Was it not simply that you did not refer to the United Nations or to what were the actual needs? There was a need to restore the good ties across the Atlantic, and therefore Norway, as the only country that opposed the war, went into the brink of notifying forces to Iraq. A little clear speech from Lilletun had done well in a day like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e524	The representative of the Halvorsen wants clear speech, and it's affordable in all contexts. It's a good book that says a speech should be yes, yes or no, no, and it's not a bad principle. But it's still the case that we demand a little bit of each other here, clear speech at a little different times. I dare to say that, without a decision of the UN Security Council that made it clear that there was a force of international law, the government had not gone for forces either. If it were to be so that it also helped to secure long-term friendship, it is not negative in itself, I would say. So finally, I miss that clear yes from the representative Halvorsen and SV. When the last decision came to the UN Security Council, SV should also have lifted the commotion and said, "We are in proportion to these forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e531	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e534	The Central Party thankes the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement and notes that there are large parts to which we can subscribe. We are pleased with the emphasis that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is doing not least of the work in relation to Russia and the nuclear safety work in the north. It is important that we do not forget how vital it is that we have progress in that work, whether there are other issues that are higher on the media agenda. This is about vital interests for Norway. I'm not going to use my time now to repeat consensus, but rather grab hold of the main points where the centre party would prefer to put a different device on the statement than what was the case. This applies mainly to four areas. Firstly, the presentation is simply about mentioning important processes that are now taking place in the United Nations. We miss a mention of these. Not least, it includes the views of the Government on the role of the United Nations in Iraq. We would definitely like to see a more offensive approach to the WTO and the negotiations there. We believe that the Government is overly concerned about our relationship with the EU, and we are known to disagree with the Government regarding the Norwegian role in Iraq, but I would like to comment on it. Let me do the different points a little bit more in-depth. It is surprising that the UN is not mentioned in the statement. The United Nations Secretary-General’s Panel of Wise Men is working to explore the future role of the United Nations in the light, inter alia, of: new safety challenges. The Panel shall make proposals to make the UN more relevant and effective. In other words, a very important work for everyone who is involved in the role of the United Nations in international policy. The Central Party believes that it is important that one from Norway not only prepares for the discussion that will follow the presentation of the Secretary-General’s report, it will be for the autumn, but also that time is now spent to promote views on this work. We believe that it should be a role for Norway to clarify the importance of closer integration of the political and economic work of the United Nations and that this is an important premise for the United Nations to become a more effective tool in the fight against terrorism. It should be emphasised that the normative work of the United Nations must be strengthened, not least at a time when international law is under pressure. It should also be emphasised that work on preventive diplomacy and conflict prevention needs to provide a new and broader content within the UN framework. It would be interesting to hear the Foreign Minister’s thoughts about the work of the Panel of Wise Men and how Norway works in relation to this process. The UN is also facing an urgent challenge in Iraq. The central party's clear view is that the UN must be given greater responsibility for the political process in Iraq, and then we believe that responsibility with great A. The worst case scenario for the UN will be whether the organisation is allocated deloping tasks that are in practice impossible to implement. In such a situation, we know who will be left with the blame in the end if it doesn't go well. It will be the UN. In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is engaged in a possible NATO role in Iraq. But what he thinks about the role of the United Nations in that regard, he has chosen not to say anything about it. I would appreciate it if the Foreign Minister could make it clear that if you look at a further NATO role, it will demand that you have a perfectly clear relationship with what the United Nations is going to do in Iraq in the future. In relation to any NATO role in Iraq, the Central Party's preliminary assessment is that it will be easier for Norway to participate in Iraq under NATO command than under British command. However, there is a major question of whether NATO should take on additional tasks of this kind, and definitely a question of a greater commitment, since there is a very long way to go in Afghanistan, and the alliance has taken on heavy commitments in that country. There must be no doubt that Afghanistan must be a priority. The centre party shall not use this opportunity to take any action in relation to Norwegian soldiers and Iraq. We've lost that battle. The soldiers have been sent. However, in the last few days, there has been a lack of clarity about the agreement between Norway and the United Kingdom. I believe that it would be wise to go further into that discussion in the right organs of the Storting. The Central Party is concerned that a number of defence experts refer to the legislation as unclear. I believe that we cannot live with this, we should go a round on this. It is also important for future reasons, as Norway may be involved in operations similar to what we are now participating in in Iraq. It's actually a big change in defense that tells us to, and that's why we have to take this very carefully. WTO negotiations are a challenge for Norway, as for all other countries. The collapse in Cancun gave the opportunity for innovation and time to build new and wider alliances. Neither during the inter-pell debate on agriculture on Tuesday nor in the foreign policy statement does the Minister for Foreign Affairs state what work is being done by the Government in this interim phase before we are going to enter into new negotiations. This can hardly be understood in any other way than that there is little or nothing happening, which is otherwise in line with the impression that many people also seem to have outside the political environment. We believe that it is totally unacceptable for one to sit still now, primarily in relation to the agricultural negotiations, where the reality is that much of the industry's future is at stake, with all the consequences it will have for employment, the food industry, housing and cultural landscapes. The Central Party wishes to continue to be deepened by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on what is being done in the current WTO negotiations. Finally, the Central Party appears to note a change of mood in the statement we heard on Tuesday, in relation to previous statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs regarding the EU. Sutring over the so-called exclusion is more prominent in this statement than what we have seen and heard before. We interpret it as a sign that the new EU debate is approaching, and that the Right is pushing further on the Christian People's Party also in this matter. The undertone of the Foreign Minister’s statement is that Norway, as a non-member of the EU, is outside the reach of almost all important international processes, and that for this reason we are faced with completely different challenges than others. I don't stop wondering that you don't really reflect that Norway, as an EU member, would have 2 pst. by the votes of the Council of Ministers, that we would have 14 out of 736 votes in the European Parliament, and that we would lose our vote and seaworthiness in other international forums, such as the European Parliament. in the international trade negotiations. I believe that the defensive attitude of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and therefore of the Government towards these processes makes us less able to care for Norwegian real-world interests. We're going to get back to the EEA in the next case, and since the time is running out, I'm not going to say more about it. I just want to express some wonder that the bulk of the population shows such a considerable reluctance to explore alternatives to the EEA. This reluctance is thus expressed at a time when we hear more and more people being concerned that we should have an open and analytical relationship with the EU issue. It's strange that you don't want to get all the real alternatives on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e567	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e570	The representative, Mr Haga, is concerned that Norway may have too few votes in the European Union. The question that it is natural to ask then is how many votes we have per person. the date of issue. The leader of the Centre Party has noticed a change in its view on the EU issue. It is also happening in her own party, where many years of county rapporteurs in Troms, Ronald Rindestu, have been at the head of the ‘Cast into the EU’ action. Does the representative Haga think that Ronald Rindestu has not understood the best of the coastal population? Does the representative understand that better market access for processed fish products in the enlarged EU, with 450 million inhabitants, can ensure thousands of new jobs for women in District Norway? Finally, the Court considers that the EU's strong emphasis on regions actually means that districts can be more permeable in Brussels than in Oslo. Is the President-in-Office here in complete error, or does he have a good point?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e579	A full answer to all these questions would require a separate explanation. But let's start with the 'Cast into the EU', a new NHO network funded by 1.8 million. kr by that organisation, an organisation based on the interests of farming industries in relation to the EU. I fully recognise that Norway should ideally have better market access to the EU. The farming industry, which is behind this network, would obviously have earned out on the lack of economic self-interest. The problem is that when assessing whether it would be wise for the whole coast to enter the EU, a much broader perspective is needed. All the processes we have had with the EU indicate that if we want better market access, we have to give up resources. That's the balance that needs to be made. There's no choice. If we choose to become EU members, Norwegian seas become EU seas, Norwegian fish become EU fish. We give priority to resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e586	I note with interest that the leader of the Centre Party has now become skeptical that business organisations also engage financially in the EU fight. That's interesting. I noticed otherwise that Åslaug Haga in his speech repeatedly used the term that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is suspending. To that one must be able to say that there is no party in this hall that has more expertise about exactly the phenomenon sutring. The question I would like to ask the representative, Mr Haga, since she has given so much attention to the role of the United Nations and the United Nations, is whether she has registered that the UN Secretary-General issued a clear and strong statement a few days ago in which he recommended to all the rich countries that they should respond to the WTO trade negotiations. He strongly advised the rich countries to be willing to set their own interests aside for the benefit of the poor countries. This applies explicitly to agricultural products. Is this also one of the things in the United Nations context that Åslaug Haga thinks we should attach great importance?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e595	The Centre Party always attaches considerable importance to the opinions of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. There has also been a good tradition in Norwegian foreign policy, and I hope that it will remain with us in the future. We in the Center Party are concerned that the trade negotiations are going to start again, so that we can arrive at a result that is far better than the draft we saw on the table in Cancun. When the Secretary-General calls for the resumption of trade negotiations, it is clear that no country is worthy of our failure to have a good and solid trading system. That also means the Center Party. What the UN Secretary-General has not said is what premises should be at the bottom of a final agreement, and that is exactly what the negotiations are about. But the fact that we're all served with a good and efficient trading system is giving way to sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e604	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e608	The left joins the Foreign Minister's presentation and the perspectives it draws up. Norwegian foreign policy is based on the idea of cooperation and a balance between, on the one hand, caring for national interests and, on the other, caring for both our moral and political obligations. The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave us a good overview of our commitment to peace processes, work for human rights and our humanitarian efforts and assistance. The left believes that this must always be a pillar of our foreign policy priorities, regardless of whether it benefits our national interests. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that Norway has clear interests in working for a world based on committed international cooperation. This is completely in line with the view of the Left. Globally and regionally, it is important to support under international cooperation in organised forms rather than arbitrary and temporary alliances and coalitions of individual countries. The work of a world of democratic rules is in the interests of all small countries and must be pursued by Norway. The UN is strengthening its position in the world after the difficult time it experienced around the invasion of Iraq. At the same time, in the last year we have seen attacks on UN personnel and equipment in several places in the world. In the past, the UN flag has been sufficient for defence and protection against attacks, but in Iraq we have seen that both the UN and the Red Cross have been attacked by terrorists. Norway must contribute through its channels to the restoration of confidence in the World Organisation. The UN must also take the necessary steps and carry out the necessary reforms so that the organisation can become more effective, while strengthening the legitimacy and trust of the UN. Blue bets must be able to continue their efforts to maintain peace agreements, but also be able to meet new security challenges in the world. It is important that Norway contributes constructively to relaunch the WTO negotiations. There is no doubt that agricultural negotiations are one of the most difficult and complex. Norway, together with a shortage of other countries, has a strong need to ensure its own production both through support schemes and customs barriers. Norwegian agricultural production has little impact on world trade. We're net importers. 50 pst. The food we eat is imported. Our support and import protection is motivated by a strong desire to maintain a variety of agriculture that forms landscapes and rural areas throughout our country. At the same time, there is no doubt that developing countries must not be recipients of subsidized food from rich countries, this in order to develop their own agriculture, and to be able to export under equal conditions. The most important Norway can and should contribute is therefore a WTO agreement in which export subsidies are greatly reduced, and preferably eliminated. To put WTO negotiations back on track, we depend on everyone, including Norway, moving their positions. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed the importance of transatlantic ties. He gave a good description of the fundamental community of values, the historical, cultural and political important cooperation we have over the Atlantic. At the same time, I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed disappointment that the United States has chosen to remain outside important international agreements such as the Kyoto Protocol, the Test stop Agreement and the International Criminal Court. It's a disappointment we in the left part. I am disappointed that in several areas, including security policy and trade policy, the United States shows little willingness to cooperate and respect for international agreements and organisations. The United States is today the only superpower in the world. The left is concerned that the role is managed in a way that could lead to further suspicion and instability in relation to different parts of the world. Europe shares fundamental values of democracy, individual freedom and respect for human rights with the United States. On the other hand, Norway and the rest of Europe have great scepticism about how to protect these values. The United States needs friends who can sometimes play a corrective role in the fight for the values we share. Mutual respect is important to maintain the strong transatlantic ties. Norway participates in humanitarian work related to the reconstruction of Iraq. I support Mr Lilletun's remarks here. But the left is of the opinion that if NATO is to play a greater role in relation to Iraq, it is important that it is anchored by a mandate of the United Nations. We need to do what we can to ensure the fastest and safest possible transition to Iraqi rule in the country. The establishment of the country's institutions and democratic structures must be the focus of the efforts of the world community in the country. The very serious situation in the Middle East has been further exacerbated. The newspaper today can tell that yesterday ten Palestinians were killed by Israeli tanks on the Gaza Strip. This morning the news came that a new bomb had exploded outside Sharon's home. We are witnessing today a gross violation of international law through the wall that the Israeli government is building in part deep within Palestinian territory. It is estimated that approx. 680000 Palestinians will be directly affected by the wall or so-called security fence. They are decapitated or closed between 1967 and the West Bank. Only 11 pst. by the wall is built along the green line, the 1967 border. The rest are on Palestinian land. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs so clearly stresses that the line for the wall is a violation of international law. The wall would also not be acceptable if it went on the Israeli side. It is not possible to achieve peace by walling people inside. What is meant to stop terrorists leads to even greater problems for the already heavily pressed Palestinian civilian population. It will be further difficult to get to work and visit family on the other side of the wall. The very difficult economic and social conditions of the population are exacerbated and the already weak Palestinian economy is further weakened. Violence and terror cannot be defended, and the Left is strongly opposed to attacks by Palestinian terrorist organisations on civilian Israelis. Similarly, we take equal distance from Israel's brutal actions and liquidations of Palestinian leaders and activists. The destruction of the homes of Palestinian citizens and the punishment of family members to suspects is a form of collective punishment that only increases the level of conflict. The terror of the Israeli government against the Palestinian civilian population must be met with just as clear condemnation and criticism as the terror of Palestinian groups. There is no reason to believe that even more brutal conduct from the Israeli government towards the Palestinians will reduce the terror of extreme Palestinian groups. On the contrary, increased reluctance, desperation and hatred are likely to increase influx to the extreme groups. Fortunately, Prime Minister Sharon also meets with civil society opposition in Israel and harsh criticism from Israeli human rights groups. Officers, soldiers and even four former Israeli intelligence chiefs criticize Sharon for his iron-hard line against the Palestinian population. Pilots in the aircraft refuse to engage in attacks on civilian populations. There is a great responsibility both on the Palestinian and on the Israeli side to end the acts of violence. However, the Israeli occupation is the underlying cause of today’s evil spiral of violence and terror, and Israel has as its occupying power a special responsibility for the resumption of the dialogue. Norway, together with the Quartet, must press the parties to resume negotiations. Especially the United States has to contribute more strongly to getting the parties to the negotiating table. A solution must be based on the legitimate demands of the Palestinians for a state of their own and the right of Israel to exist within safe borders. The Palestinian authorities must step up their efforts to stop the acts of terror of the extreme groups. Israel must terminate its occupation, remove its settlements on Palestinian land and respect fundamental human rights. The construction of the wall must be stopped, and the construction so far must be removed. We have come to a historic realization that building walls between countries will never solve conflicts. Europe has learned that. The EU is developing to be the largest and most important cooperation area in Europe. The Union is undergoing a rapid and comprehensive change in both size, structure and content. There is little doubt that EU enlargement to the east is positive for Europe as a whole. It will be an important contribution to ensuring economic development, stability and security in our part of the world. I also hope that enlargement will help to increase social cohesion and erase the old hated lines between East and West. The EU is also changing in other ways. The Convention's proposal for a Constitution or a Constitutional Treaty proposes major changes to the tasks of the European Union and the building of the EU's democratic structures. The decision-making structures in the EU are comprehensive and difficult to understand for politicians and not least for ordinary people in Europe. It is also of the opinion that the EU should leave more and less decisions to the Member States, so that the organisation concentrates on the major issues. There is no doubt that the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union should clarify and clarify a number of issues. Finally, I would just like to say that the Foreign Minister's statement well stated what will be Norway's priorities in relation to the Presidency of the Council of Europe. The organisation needs reforms and to find its place. The Foreign Minister gave a good picture of the situation in the conflicts in which we play an active role as peace builders. Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would also like to highlight the important role of voluntary organisations in this work, such as organisations such as the Church's Emergency Aid and Norwegian Public Aid, for example. has done so in Sudan.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e648	In foreign policy, the Coastal Party wants equivalent cooperation between nation states governed by the rule of law. We support Norway's commitment to peace operations and our role as peace brokers in conflicts around the world. We want to help poor countries achieve development and autonomy. However, Norway’s primary task is to take responsibility in its own neighbourhood. There we have special conditions for creating peace, development and the environment. Our main security needs are met through Norwegian membership of NATO. This will apply regardless of whether the EU builds its own defence force. When new Central European countries join NATO, this will further strengthen links across the Atlantic. Russia also cooperates with NATO. In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed Norway's cooperation with Russia. This is positive and necessary. We have a common interest in regulating increasing shipping in our areas, clearing up environmental problems and solving the problems of sharing in the Barents Sea. However, Norway should also show its independence from Russia in its sovereignty exercise on Svalbard and in the son around Svalbard. The Coastal Party also wants good cooperation between Norway and the EU, but it should be based on maintaining our national independence. Therefore, the Coastal Party proposes Norway to withdraw from the EEA and Schengen and to set a trade agreement with the EU. Norway should rather be involved and support developments in Eastern and Central European countries, but priority should be given to helping countries that need it the most, and countries that are outside the enlarged EU. We note with regret that the EU is splitting the Nordic region and that the Nordic EU countries are driving in the EU to push Norway for concessions in the trade field and in relation to the capture of marine mammals. Norway does not need to be pushed by the EU in important fisheries negotiations. This is the last round of negotiations on fishing in the North Sea. As an independent country outside the EU, Norway can use its rights under the law of the sea and use its economic strength as a result of large natural resources. In the EU, the population determines when decisions are to be taken. As an EU member, Norway will soon be downgraded in the distribution of both fish, oil and gas. The coastal party looks at the Faeroe Islands, Greenland and Iceland as Norway’s partners. Together, these four western Nordic countries can control large parts of the natural resources in the Norwegian Sea. And of course, Russia, Orknøje and Shetland are coming. The Western Nordic perspective is completely lacking in the Foreign Minister's presentation. Could it have anything to do with him being afraid of closer cooperation with countries outside the EU? In its neighbourhood, Norway, with the Western Nordic countries as its starting point, can maintain its own role in foreign policy by working with both the United States, Canada, Russia and the EU in an equivalent way. There's no reason to be dictated by any of these major acts. They all have a common interest in cooperating with Norway and in stability and development in the northern regions. Norway should have many legs to bear in foreign policy. In the commercial field, it is important to develop more markets for our fish exports, so that we do not become dependent on one market. One-sided market dependence will make us vulnerable to political and economic pressure. Norway should, inter alia: through their embassies and consulates, bet on the more efficient marketing of Norwegian goods and by Norway as a tourist country. The Coastal Party will propose that the embassies and consulates we have around the world be given freer funding for this purpose. Today, it is largely Hurtigruta that markets Norway outside the world – it is a fact The Coastal Party is looking at the development of the World Trade Organisation with mixed emotions. It would be beneficial for Norway to achieve a freer world trade in fishery products. However, this should be achieved without any pressure to state the protection of Norwegian agriculture. The coastal party is strongly opposed to setting up different district industries in Norway against each other. We are concerned that natural resources are important to Norway, and to the whole world. Without natural resources and humans, the world economy cannot grow. It's only from where we can pick it up. Of course, we can speed up the world economy by letting it go faster. That way it'll grow, but it won't grow bigger. It's just like having money in a bowl and speeding up the money in the ball – this is the world economy. On the contrary, we are working on building alliances between the district industries in general and between food producers in particular. The collapse of WTO negotiations shows that different countries have different but legitimate national interests. Therefore, countries should not be pushed into the same pattern. The Coastal Party believes that world trade needs to take more account of the need for poor countries to protect their own business in a build-up phase and to ensure national autonomy and control of their own resources. The need for own agricultural production in all countries should also be respected. It is beneficial both because it reduces the need for transport and because it makes the world less vulnerable to disease. The bird virus we're experiencing today is a typical example of how it can work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e676	The Minister of Foreign Affairs had, as he said earlier, a statement for the Storting that could have been called 'from postponement to omission'. The Bastisen was otherwise concerned with the need to find alliances, but I think maybe a great deal of emphasis on Western-Nordic cooperation. Compared to other alliances in Europe, it is literally a bit of a watered-down version if we were to just see that road. What we see happening around us is what the Foreign Minister observed. I would like to think that the Foreign Minister goes even further than observing the challenges that come with cooperation in Europe. When the EU takes over from NATO in Bosnia, we can observe it, but the road gets there while we go. This is progressing, and cooperation in Europe is becoming concrete for those who participate. We can observe that it will be a planning unit and that the EU will have its own planning unit in Brussels. But it is also forming and being formed by those who participate. There has to be an ambition to participate, and I want to ask that there be more emphasis on it. I agree with the challenge described by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but we need to look even more at what we are going to do in order not to continue to be left out, because the strongest development we see around us is what is happening in Europe. We can quickly agree that Iraq is dramatic, but we should be very careful not to let the current situation in Iraq, and what led to the war in Iraq, overshadow what is actually happening. There is much more responsible and usually what happens than what Iraq represents. Iraq probably represents an exception in many ways. We see a Europeanisation in Europe, and I will give you an example: a few years ago, it was the United States that had most foreign investment in Poland, now it is France and Germany. Europeanisation is also taking place in the enlarged EU. But what is also important is that many of these countries entering the EU and NATO will be in agreement with Norway in that it is important to have strong cooperation across the Atlantic, as many more countries in the EU also believe. In other words, it's not a contradiction between a stronger Europe and a stronger NATO, but it's a commitment to a strong NATO that we have a strong Europe that makes us really have a pact and an alliance over the Atlantic. Therefore, it is so important that Norway participates actively and sees the possibilities and challenges of what is happening in Europe. Lilletun was in on it earlier today, and he thought it was a dream that Thorbjørn Jagland had. I'm not going into a dream interpretation between Jagland and Lilletun, but I don't think that the dream in itself is that Norway should not participate in Europe. The dream must be that in the future we will have a peaceful Europe that cooperates. Europe does not become peaceful without a partner, and to cooperate, one must have institutions to cooperate around. Germany and France cooperate. There is no theory, but there has been no conflict between the two. Austria, Italy — one can name many — now Cyprus is coming, perhaps solving Cyprus’s problem because of the EU. Between Hungary and Romania, we have already seen a strong approach because they are entering the EU and NATO. This is important, and there is something troubling about an alliance where state leaders discuss milk quotas and bananas instead of using weapons for territory and markets. This is a little bit of the nucleus of what's happening around us. We can observe that, but it's also important that we see the possibilities by participating. Norway does not have to participate, because, as the Foreign Minister says, Norway is in the peaceful corner of Europe, so for Europe this is not important. But what is happening in Europe is quite important to Norway. Then we can also ask the question a few times about whether we should be with, and in other contexts we should ask the question: is it necessary for us to be involved in not being left out in the further cooperation? For as tragic as some may think it is: those who are closest to us are those who are closest to us geographically in Europe. So we can't ignore this. Many countries have many who are strongly opposed to European cooperation, many countries have many who are strong for European cooperation, but I believe Norway is the country that has most who ignores European cooperation and thinks that this is something we do not need to care about. Euroignorance is a Norwegian privilege. Therefore, it is important that we put this on the agenda and look at it not as if Norway should participate, but what we need to participate in, and not necessarily push this into whether Norway should have a membership or one. But we must fully open the agenda and recognise what is actually happening. Without our recognition of what is actually happening, the Foreign Minister's start to the distribution will be a truth: we will be the abandoned country in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e687	Let me first express my deep appreciation for what I tried to convey as a main tone in my post, which has just been perceived in the way that Haakon Blankenburg now expressed. I think it is very important that we understand the situation in Norway, in many ways a very fortunate situation, because we live in a peaceful corner of Europe. But it takes part of us to intervene with the processes. The rapid introduction of this into the debate on the EU issue is, of course, clear, but I also suggest a number of steps that must be taken with regard to our current connection situation. Not least because of this, it was so important for me to insert the sentence that now is the time for Norway to deliver. We've been used to, and we have a mindset that's based on, that in many ways we've always had the attention of others, for good reasons. We're not there anymore, and it requires some grip on us, as I've explained. I am glad that it has been understood in the way it has been done, among other things. by the speakers of the Labour Party, also in so far as the speakers of the Progress Party, although I continue to experience some disagreement as to what those instruments are meant to be. I have to say that I have increasingly come to the conclusion that it is important for Norway to also contribute in areas significantly far from Norway because it gives us entry and political capital, even though what is at the bottom, of course it is that we can help, can do a job, and that is in many ways in itself enough. But there is no doubt that when I am looking for talks with major actors on behalf of the country, it is more interesting to talk about Sudan and Sri Lanka than about a snowy Norwegian agenda. One gives us the input to the other. I think it's important for us to hold on to the fact that the time has come for us to deliver. I also greatly appreciated the approach taken by the committee's chairman, not least much of what was said about the Middle East. It was important for me to communicate not only the assessment of the Palestine-Israel conflict, but that we too, I believe, are increasingly facing a debate on what we can do to influence this region beyond the Palestine-Middle East conflict. I think we can record that it is also interesting in the region itself to build further on. It's a little bit up until we can operate on what we're looking for. But when the chairman of the Committee, referring to the Secretary-General of NATO, mentioned an opportunity to think about a PFP direction, there is one of many operational approaches we can imagine. But it's clear it's far ahead. That's a lot of trouble. We have to be prepared to reject ideas as well. But there's every reason to now try to move this forward. It is not that democracy, distribution, human rights and economic development are special to the Western world. But we must recognize that in the Arab world there is a lack of dynamism for which we all pay the price. It's one important matter that I probably disagreed with the committee's chairman. I fully agree with him that it is important to draw Serbia into the Western structures, and it is important to have a close relationship with Serbia. I think Norway is one of the countries that has done a lot in that area. At the same time, however, I would like to say that we must also make it clear to the Balkan countries that one of the prerequisites for success in what we want is that cooperation with the Court of Justice in The Hague goes ahead and that the extradition of war criminals continues. It's been a prerequisite all along. This debate cannot be concluded without this being said, and I am sure that we all agree that this premise is there. But, as I said, I think we all agree on the main point, namely that it is important to involve the Balkans in the Euro-Atlantic structures as quickly as possible. I am not going to engage in too much polemics with those who have talked about other things, preferably SV, and also the Center Party. I just want to say to both that when I didn't talk about the situation in Iraq anymore, it was because the Storting itself a month ago had a thorough review of these questions. I get enough, when I observe Norwegian political debate, the impression that some people live by the principle of ‘that again and again’, and it is clear that we could certainly do this once again. But I perceive in many ways the debate right before Christmas as quite adequate, and that the Storting's will there is expressed. That's why I thought it was important now to shed light on other questions, because there's so many questions that matter to us, but that's how wishful pricing is one of the most popular in the country, so I understand that there may be a need for it. But my opinion was to give different perspectives on Norwegian foreign policy than the Stortinget has just discussed in detail. Nevertheless, I felt it was important to stress that in terms of NATO's efforts, Afghanistan is the main priority. That is clear from my statement, and it is clear from what the NATO Secretary-General has said. That means we're going to support this line that he's drawn here. Nor are we in any doubt that we will be able to compete for the resources in the future, and so it is important to remember that this is the main priority. To Kristin Halvorsen, I must say that I agree that there is an interesting debate on the relationship between the use of military resources and other parts of politics. But it's been a constant tone all along. As Kristin Halvorsen put it about the use of non-military instruments, she does express what I am, among other things. I've been saying about this for years, and I see it as a support for the line we've put on. It is important to see that military resources are just one of many instruments we use in the fight against terrorism. I was a little stunned when she used the phrase «war on Afghanistan» several times. I'm counting on it to be a delay. It is true that the use of military resources here was triggered by the perfectly legitimate defence needs that exist. That was the UN's perception of it all. The fact that it was repeated several times, probably just means that it is quick to repeat a mistake several times when it is first said. One point on the use of military resources: I do not need to go further in that debate with Kristin Halvorsen, except for one question: how, with the wording she served, she explains the SV's position in the Kosovo conflict. It's pretty close and actually told us what kind of dilemmas we're facing here, both in terms of legitimizing it, and also in terms of reasons. I think that SV did the right choices at the time, but it seems that those choices are being pushed over. I think that if we are to have a principle approach to this issue, it is important that we do not forget the experience we had in the Balkans in the 1990s, that we remember Kosovo, remember Srebrenica, remember what happened when it was not enough will, and we did not get the decisions. People were killed, and it was at the moment that the political will was clearly expressed, that the murders stopped. We all think we're happy about that. In the case of Åslaug Hagas, there's not much to comment on, i.e. I registered her juicy characteristics in relation to the WTO. My only true hope is that she doesn't believe that's what she says. But I understand her political needs towards her homeland to pretend it's like that. I just want to say that when it came to the rules of engagement in Iraq, those questions were resolved on Monday. This was announced as the major theme of today's debate. When it hasn't happened – and I haven't done this since Monday – it's probably because most people have realized that what the Minister of Defense said on Monday is just right, and if Åslaug Haga believes that there is still some ambiguity in this area, it's not because of the Minister of Defence, but that Åslaug Haga hasn't done the necessary homework. Then we're facing the good old principle that it's not necessary, that is. I'll warn you, to base any journalistic opinion when you see a camera and a microphone go by. They may not have always grasped it, and this was an example of not happening. So a little bit of a critical relationship with the premises you get presented, I recommend. There may be fewer radio broadcasts of it, but it might also be wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e704	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e707	I referred in my speech to the fact that the EU is now building its own planning cell in NATO and otherwise has a separate one in the Council Secretariat. I wonder if the Minister for Foreign Affairs has given some thought to how Norway should be able to intervene on this, whether it might simply be a thought to ask that we get staff, for example. in the planning cell in NATO. It is a fact that, among other things, shall plan for the acquisition of the operation in Bosnia, where Norway is still a participant. So the question is, how are we going to be able to get involved with what is happening now, as a significant contributor to the ESDP? Moreover, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said about the Court of Justice in The Hague: the Serbian Government has done a lot to bring people to The Hague, and it has followed up all those commitments. But it's not that simple, and you have to see it from the other side, too, that the requirement comes, among other things. from the United States, which will not submit itself to the International Criminal Court. That's what creates a situation in the country that creates new nationalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e714	I think these last reflections in many ways are very interesting because we may need to think a little bit more about how we deal with the issue of court settlement and reconciliation after difficult conflicts. Here I think some and each of us can have positions that aren't immediately as well connected in all parts of the chain. I agree with what Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland says, that the Serbian government has done a good deal, but there is no result there that it is very important to keep track of. It is clear that it is very important to bring Karadzic and Mladic into court. But in many other contexts, we should discuss how far one should actually let the sense of justice go to the distortion of reconciliation. There's another debate, but I think it's important. In terms of NATO and the EU, I just want to say that the reason why I think this is going to go well is that it's now a significant mutual transparency, that it's transparency. That's why I don't think we're going to have a conflict in this area. We're constantly looking for insight into the processes as far as possible, and I'm glad that there's now become so much reciprocity and openness here that I don't think we can say that we don't know what the others are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e721	I registered that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believed that in our peace efforts in perhaps remote struts, we get a lot of political capital. We must take this seriously, and we must listen to it. It's a look-up in the Evening Post today where Professor Olav Orheim, Director of the Norwegian Polar Institute, has led a selection that has looked at challenges and opportunities in the northern regions, says that there was a clear perception in the sample that there has become a clear imbalance in our foreign policy. He then refers to our peace mediation initiative versus the fact that we may lack a policy as good as we should have. Does this selection fail? Isn't this a debate we should be going into? And does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not see that our resource use on peace-brokering is taking away from other important areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e728	I readily agree that this is a debate we have to go into. Yes, not only that, most of my post was actually an invitation to that debate. So I appreciate that Høglund took this up. With regard to Olav Orheim's statements, which I haven't seen today, I just want to say briefly that he wasn't just a member, but he led the Northern Region Committee that I appointed for some time ago. Their task was to address challenges in the north, and they have not had as part of their mandate to address issues related to other parts of Norwegian foreign policy. What's important to me is to emphasize that we don't have to go into the trap that we're making contradictions between this. It's important that we have many instruments. If we think we should have others' attention on our issues in the north, then my main concern is that we have to be involved in delivering in other areas that are of interest to them, so that we create reciprocity in everything. That's the basic idea that I, from a lot of experience, think is right. That's why it wouldn't help if we were alone with our problems in the north and concentrated a lot on them. We have to create alliance partners all over the place.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e735	I want to invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs to give an assessment of the latest ‘State of the Union’ speech given by Bush, and in particular of what has raised considerable awareness in many circles, namely that he is not at all referring to NATO – that is the one point – and – the second point – that he is taking Norway to income for the fact that the United States is internationalised enough in Iraq, which is used in the US debate in relation to a clearer UN track in Iraq. That would be interesting. Then I want to pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his very clear presentation that the wall that Israel is now building in the Palestinian territories is contrary to international law. But also here is the United States with the key to putting an increased pressure on Israel in this conflict. I would like to know if the Secretary of State thinks that the United States is putting enough pressure on Israel to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e742	The answer to the last question is no. I think the United States should put more pressure on them. The conversation I had with Colin Powell a couple of weeks ago had as one of my purposes to have that message delivered. I also want to confirm what Kristin Halvorsen says. I believe that one of the most serious problems now is the development of the wall – but not the wall itself. Israel has the right to defend itself, but the point is that it is built far into Palestinian territory and therefore creates ground conditions that can be a problem. In fact, we're going to stick to what Sharon said when he was in Molde, that this would have nothing to do with a final solution, and he's going to do that over and over again. Nevertheless, we are concerned that it will actually create problems, and in any case it will create significant problems for Palestinian daily life, which also makes it even more difficult to achieve economic development. [[President clubs]] I got a little engaged here, but the new rules only provide one minute's speaking time, so we'll take the rest later.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e752	As far as the exposure rules in Iraq are concerned, I only note that a former head of defence, a military adviser on the NUPI and others believe that there are uncertainties relating to the two sets of agreements. I agree with them. To me, they also appear with a certain ambiguity. But I must note that this is not the only foreign policy issue in which I feel clearly the need to go beyond what the Minister for Foreign Affairs is doing. But that's not what I was going to talk about. My question to the Secretary of State goes to the United Nations. The Minister of Foreign Affairs used part of his post to announce his visions in relation to what Norway can contribute both within the EU and externally, if Norway becomes a member. I will now challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs to announce his vision in relation to how he views the UN in the new security policy situation – giving him the opportunity to say something about how he perceives that the UN should be able to play a vital role in the international community in the future, and what action and initiatives are needed in the UN in relation to developing the UN for this instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e759	First to the first question. I must say that what Åslaug Haga said doesn't change anything. The matter has been clarified, and there is no other basis for doing so. I am amazed that on Thursday the same week there are still representatives in Stortinget who believe the opposite. As far as the United Nations is concerned, I would first like to say that this is what I have said many times. It is not that what I do not have in my statement, I do not believe anything about it. I was on for three quarters, and I spoke very much not least about the whole Iraq conflict and the central role that the UN has in terms of peace and security under the UN Charter and international law. I want to keep in mind that that's the nucleus itself. So Kofi Annan, precisely because it has not been so easy to find the grip on it, has reduced a group – and I have to make it clear that it is completely independent and independent of the nation states – that will now give more thought to that issue. And I'd like to see its statements before I say more than what I've said many times before about the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e766	I would have been happy if it had been so simple that there is no problem now between NATO and the EU. It is clear that it is formally clarified, but what this will be like daily over time, when we actually get hundreds of people on the EU side who are going to do with concrete planning, among other things. of the operations in which we are participants — how we are going to intervene in this and what kind of connection there are opportunities to get, with staff related to this so that we can keep up to date — that’s what was my question. I would also like to say in the case of Serbia: I believe that this connection is wrong, that if you don't bring Mladic and Karadzic to The Hague, you will come, for example. not in the Partnership for Peace, because they've done a lot, and NATO hasn't been able to catch these people either. Why then does it set the requirement of this government, which will absolutely do so, and also wants to approach NATO and the West? In addition, we have this dual morality that is present, that they should do this, bring people to the international court, while those who make the claim, actually will not submit themselves to the court. This, I think, is a double standard that leads to a wrong outcome in the Balkans.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e773	I just want to make it clear that what we're talking about here is a court that's a special court just for this purpose, and I don't think that you should simply draw other court questions into this. But to the second question, I just have to say briefly that how we technically attack and get access to the EU side, I can't go here and now – it's to a large extent also a question of how to plan purely defensively – but we'd like to get back to it later when we get a little more detailed on how to do these things. What it was important for me to communicate was that what is now happening will mean openness and transparency between the EU and NATO, and that in itself is a very important opening, precisely to be able to go into more detail on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e780	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e783	The Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement on Tuesday about Norwegian foreign policy gave the impression that Norway is a major act, although the population is no larger than a city in a larger city in the world. Our financial contributions to all good purposes beyond our borders also point to this, and we are among the five best in the world in that way. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said, among other things: that we have a duty to ensure that ‘other people have a safer and more dignified life’. Maybe it should also apply to our elderly and sick people at home. When 10 new countries join the EU and the EEA from 1 May, Norway’s contribution to these will amount to DKK 1.8 billion a year, and it is important that we participate and influence the way this money is used. We'll get into this in the next case. With regard to EU enlargement, I am not going to start an EU debate, but I am going to remind you that we are more than 4.5 million people compared to 450 million people in the EU, and I am not sure that Norway will have any decisive influence either on the EEA or on the EU. As far as NATO is concerned, I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is important to keep the fundamental community of values over the Atlantic with our friends. In my view, a separate EU force will be a derailment and a pulverisation of responsibility for our security. The same teams also had to be used in both NATO and the EU. In the case of conflict areas in the world, the Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned some areas. He mentioned Israel's right to self-defense, but thought they had to refrain from using power. In order to prevent this, Israel has established a security fence, and this too is criticised. It's certainly not easy. I fear that there is a wave of antisemitism in Europe, which we also saw before World War II, and is something we all have to distance ourselves from. Norway is a significant contributor to the Palestinian authorities. And a lot of people here at home are wondering where the money's going to go. However, it appears that the authorities do not control the situation. Perhaps a UN force would help to prevent terrorists from being free to play. Norway must not help force Israel to open its borders to terrorists. We have to remember that this is a country of the size of a Norwegian state, threatened by the extinction of its Arab neighbours. Otherwise, the Foreign Minister was unclear in his statement when, on the one hand, he said that the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan is dependent on peace in the Middle East, and then said that progress in other areas does not depend on the settlement of the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. With regard to cleaning up pollution along the Colacyst, Norway is a major contributor, but Russia, with its 145.5 million people, should perhaps also contribute more. So to many countries in Africa that want to sell their agricultural products, but where Norway says, no, we'd rather buy our crops. This also applies to our attitude towards many areas of conflict. Finally, to sum up the statement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there were, in my opinion, many words, but little content. There was little corruption and demand for Norwegian support, little about countries that are oppressors of human rights, little about demands on countries that receive aid, little about demands on the Palestinians when they receive support, nothing about the disarmament of warlords and terrorists, nothing about nuclear weapons that can come into the hands of terrorists. The list can be made long, but I'll stop here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e802	This debate has shown most of the dilemmas of Norwegian foreign policy after the Iraq war. In his statement on Tuesday, the Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed a good basic attitude to Norway’s international contribution, emphasising that contributions should be an expression of a basis for values which would suggest that whether we have the opportunity to contribute to the security of other people, it is also our duty to contribute to this. The Minister of Foreign Affairs emphasises this as moral and political common obligations we all have in relation to foreign policy. It is easy to join in, as it is easy to agree with the ideas that Norway should contribute to the building of peace by being a stable force in peace negotiations, such as in Sri Lanka, in Sudan, or elsewhere, but also for all those oppressed who are not affected by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, whether they are now illegally interned in Guantanamo or are innocent of the conflict between Russia and Chechnya. The Minister of Foreign Affairs then adds that Norway should be a good and reliable partner while at the same time deciding how and when to cooperate. I want to spend some time on this. In the statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs particularly points to NATO's operations as an international framework for our work that cannot fail, and that we must ensure that NATO succeeds. The selected example is NATO's entry into ISAF in Afghanistan. That's when it might be valuable to ask the question: why is it NATO's performance we're going to work for? Neither should we view NATO as an alliance in the light of what it can do for the world's security as a whole, and stop looking at this alliance as a good in itself. This is a point of Norwegian policy where SV differs from the other parties in this room. There is no news and no news either that the SV is addressing the UN as the international institution that is large enough and can have legitimacy enough to do whole-hearted action to contribute to peace in a troubled world. NATO does not have this legitimacy and should not have it in our opinion, despite the fact that, in some cases, NATO is given legitimacy by the UN Security Council. NATO does not have the necessary means either. Despite more and more words about an expanded security concept in the NATO system, it is the military capabilities strengthened by the PCC obligations of the Praha meeting, the idea of a missile defence and the establishment of a rapid reaction force. In addition, we see a moving movement in the NATO system to take on a role as the U.S. toolbox. This is an obvious problem for NATO, and there are many who see it, as Nils Morten Udgaard said last Friday in the evening post when he referred to Georg W. Bush’s ‘State of the Union’ speech. NATO has significant problems, problems which are reinforced by the isolation of the United States, for example. by the fact that the United States will not follow up its disarmament obligations and are part of the alliance based on nuclear weapons as a current tool in a war situation. This should open the way for reflection here at Stortinget. Is the response to continue to adapt NATO to US military needs, or is the response to improve the UN's ability to deal with conflict and build peace through international traffic rules? SV's answer is to choose the last one, and I would like more people in this room to be interested in such solutions. I have to say that the division of labour that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee has devised between NATO and the EU is in many ways a detour to what the UN could represent given more power and influence. But the UN is paralysed – the Iraq war has shown that, the critics say. To date, the United Nations' overall instruments are the sum of the will and resources provided by the United Nations countries to the United Nations, whether more or less, and this is a situation that can be affected, that is affected and that needs to be affected. The Secretary of State's statement was cleared for mention of the fact that our leading allies, the United States and the United Kingdom, launched a war in Iraq on a false basis, and that this has created problems for the United Nations throughout the last year. But he deservedly touched on the fact that our leading ally, the United States, in very many ways refuses to participate in international driving rules established by conventions. This creates major problems for the emergence of a strong UN and clear international driving rules, and we cannot pretend this does not exist. Then our role in many situations will be reduced to being the one that takes the dishes in international conflicts, or clearing up after the wars, as we are now actually doing in Iraq. And our role can be greater. Let's not reduce the space for action any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e824	Human dignity and human rights belong together inextricably. This with human rights laws began in Europe with a European Declaration of Human Rights. It evolved since the International Declaration. Today, we regard human rights as universal. Peace is a value that is hailed universally, but warriors occur equally fully. Freedom and democracy are still a privilege for the lucky ones, but are hardly more than a dream for too many. That is why the fight for human rights, for democracy and for peace and reconciliation must be waged with unimpaired strength. This fight will be at the top of the agenda for the Christian People's Party's foreign policy. The Minister of Foreign Affairs stressed in the introduction of his statement that the world looks different than it did during the Cold War. As several have been the subject of the debate, conflicts have a different character. One of the most important roles Norway can play in world policy is, as I see it, working for peace and reconciliation. Norwegian peacekeeping efforts in Guatemala, the Middle East, Sri Lanka and Sudan are examples of Norway being followed by practice. The Philippines and Haiti are also places where Norwegian efforts for reconciliation and peace are now sought. I am pleased with the weight the Foreign Minister put on just our commitment to different peace processes, and how he described our political and moral common obligations. Traditionally, real policy and ideal policy are often opposed to foreign policy. In today's world, such a distinction is less clear and less relevant. Ideal policy typically consisted of good actions in the form of emergency aid, development aid or efforts for peaceful conflict resolution, while real policy was concerned with neighbourhoods and security threats to Norway and the Western world. If it hadn't happened to us before, 11 September 2001 was an extreme example that instability and conflict in distant regions can have dramatic consequences in our part of the world. The greatest security threats in today’s world – terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, disintegration, civil wars, regional conflicts – have their geographic origins in regions that do not belong to our neighbourhood. But these threats and conflicts can have consequences for us in our part of the world. It is therefore also in our own interest to actively contribute to peaceful conflict resolution in such areas, while at the same time expressing a value-oriented foreign policy for the benefit of our fellow human beings. As you know, on the Norwegian side, we have gained experience from a number of peace and reconciliation processes in different types of conflicts with different Norwegian roles and negotiating approaches. This experience is the basis for the action now being taken in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to strengthen competence, analytical capacity and policy development in the area of peaceful conflict resolution. The aim, as I understand it, is to contribute even more systematically and actively to coordinated international efforts for peaceful conflict resolution. This seems to be the right way to go. Areas that have been held down by conflicts and unrest need help to get on the ground. Depending on the situation in the country, different combinations of instruments may be needed. Sometimes short-term humanitarian relief is necessary. In the long term, however, it is important to focus on development assistance, support for democracy building and the development of civil society. The focus of state cooperation must be good governance and anti-corruption. As I pointed out at the outset, in Norway today we see human rights as undisputed universal, but in many countries it is a distant dream. I am thinking here of oppressive regimes in Vietnam, Burma and China, where political opposition is being held down and brutally oppressed. Both in China and Vietnam, people are harassed, imprisoned, and tortured for their faith, both Christians, Buddhists, and others who belong to different philosophical directions. We must not close our eyes to this in Norway, but take up with the authorities of the countries as often as the occasion affords. The situation is now very serious for the oppositionals in Vietnam. For example, Buddhist leader Thich Quang Do, who is the leader of the country's more than 40 million Buddhists, has been under house arrest for many years and is subjected to harassment. Harassment and house arrest have also been frequently used as a means, in addition to prison, of countering the opposition in Zimbabwe. It is serious that the government treats the Members of Parliament in such a way that most of the members of the Government Party have received their own farm, while almost everyone in the opposition has had to endure being beaten up and imprisoned. Many experience burglaries in their homes or the house being burned down. My hope is that Norway must use its influence to ensure the rule of law and democracy in Zimbabwe. It must never be so dangerous with human rights in poor countries. Political repression in African countries is just as bad as elsewhere. And the ideal of the fight for human rights must be the most important pillar of Norwegian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e850	Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other speakers have been in the situation in North-West Russia and in the north and the challenges that Norway is facing right there. As far as I recall, over 11 years ago, Minister of Foreign Affairs Thorvald Stoltenberg took the initiative in Barents' cooperation, an initiative aimed not least at involving North-West Russia as an integral part of the development of our neighbourhoods and northern areas in several sectors. Everything from culture to nuclear clean-up was put on the agenda. On the Kola peninsula is one of the largest collections of depleted nuclear submarines and other nuclear waste. In the first few years after the fall of the Soviet Union we saw this as a major environmental challenge, we have become increasingly aware that nuclear waste in the Kola Peninsula can also be a threat if it comes to detours and finds its way into the hands of terrorists and other unpredictable elements. The work to clean up nuclear waste in the Kola Peninsula is therefore an important part of our work on nuclear disarmament and part of the fight against weapons of mass destruction, including the international fight against weapons of mass destruction. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to help Norway use its presidency period in the Barents Council – using cooperation with Russia through the Arctic Council and the NATO-Russia Council – to get something done with this ticking bomb, in addition to the multilateral Arctic Military Environmental Cooperation, which includes: Norway, Russia and the United States are included. An important step towards the elimination of the world's arsenal of weapons of mass destruction is the initiative of the G8 countries, namely Global Partnership. For Norway, it is important that some of the DKK 20 billion put on the table are used to clean up nuclear waste in North-West Russia, and I would ask the Foreign Minister to work actively to ensure this. The same applies to funds related to the northern dimension of the EU. Here is a legal framework in place. The Environment Fund under the northern dimension of the EU is operational, and both the G8 countries and Russia themselves give high priority to the dismantling of unearned submarines. But we also know that Russian supervisory authorities do not have sufficient impact. Norway, as a heavily affected country, must have a primary responsibility here. If we look at the sea areas surrounding Norway, the North Sea, the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea are among the world's most resource-intensive and productive. Here, too, there are high levels of radioactive contamination, and the possibility of transporting nuclear waste along the Norwegian coast is naturally subject to concern, not least in our northern regions. Now that we have jurisdiction over a sea area that is seven times larger than our land territory, it also demands both our defence policy and our security policy, and not least demands that we have the presence of marine vessels. Otherwise, our security policy framework conditions change and so do our neighbourhoods. NATO Summit in 2002 launched, among other things: Prague Capabilities Commitment. And unlike Kjetil Bjørklund, I believe that a defence alliance actually needs military facilities to have political authority. Prague Capabilities Commitment ensures this authority, including that of NATO's European Member States, and that is not least important in the current situation. This is really not about the Alliance's achievement, which was said to be somewhat demeaning here, but about our common security, and it is about the future of the Alliance, which is not least Norway dependent on. At the same time, the issue of the relationship between a new and enlarged EU and an enlarged NATO is becoming increasingly topical. The EU consensus on a European defence policy puts Norway in a straitjacket, and several have been involved. So we have one security policy leg to stand on as long as we're outside EU cooperation, and that's NATO. However, it is serious if Norway is to lose influence over security policy. Haakon Blankenburg has used the expression of the abandoned country in Europe a few times. Should it apply in the field of security policy afterwards, I see it as quite serious. Not least, it is serious in view of the challenges of just Norwegian coastal surveillance and Norwegian jurisdiction over sea areas that are seven times our land territory, because these areas in other parts of Europe and other parts of the Alliance are no longer considered to be the world's hub.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e869	The Minister of Foreign Affairs’ presentation last Tuesday was primarily a reminder that Norwegian foreign policy is best served by a clear international legal order, with strong international institutions setting the framework for the foreign policy of countries and at the same time setting standards for how countries should act in relation to each other. Similarly, it must be clear that Norway, as a small yet very rich country, needs friends and allies in order to achieve its overall foreign policy objectives. Such a goal is to have freedom of action and influence over your own future. Lack of freedom of action in international policies suggests foreign policy marginalisation and could take various forms: firstly, as a situation in which we do not have freedom of action in relation to the countries and actors that are important to us. Secondly, we are marginalised if countries and actors that are important to us are beginning to adopt different positions in important areas of action. If we link Norway's situation to these two points, we now see an increasing degree of marginalisation. The more important the EU becomes in our part of the world, the more marginalised the countries that have a different form of association with the EU than full membership. We will also see this later today when the Storting will ratify the EEA enlargement. The EEA is actually a survival from the Cold War and was primarily an offer from the then EC to EFTA for closer trade relations. This was important because four of the EFTA countries were neutral in 1989. Today, the term ‘neutrality’ makes little sense. The EU strengthens its foreign and security policy cooperation without harming NATO and transatlantic links, as such. This means that the EU takes a far greater responsibility for European security. For the first time since 1949, Norway has not been associated with a forum which as much as the EU is involved in setting a framework for European security cooperation. The EU's characteristic as a security policy actor is precisely the Union's broad approach. Therefore, when discussing security in the EU context, we need to look not only at the CFSP and ESDP mechanisms, but at the whole process of integration in Europe. The second form of marginalisation was where key actors in Norway take different positions in several important areas of action. Norway’s foreign policy is based on an Atlantic security and value community. Now, unfortunately, we have to admit that the political distance across the Atlantic has increased in recent years, while relations between the United States and several countries, such as Germany and France, have become cooler. The fact that bilateral German-American relations have become cooler is worrying. The links between these two have been a core element of transatlantic relations since the establishment of the Federal Republic in 1949. As the relationship between these two deteriorated during the spring of 2003, there was a significant sign that something was wrong in the overall transatlantic relationship. Overall, these two trends point to an increasing marginalisation of Norway. The worst thing will be a situation where we have to choose between the United States and Europe. We hope that Norway will avoid such a situation. This is why it is so important from Norway to support the reform processes in NATO, which makes the Alliance remain relevant in relation to the security challenges we face today. NATO is no longer a regional actor, but an organisation that can engage anywhere and at any time if threats and challenges arise. It is a prerequisite for us that military operations by NATO should be legitimized by a decision of the UN Security Council. Yet the key to NATO's success lies with the United States. The US's commitment to so-called coalitions of willingness may make sense in some situations, but on the other hand can help undermine the institutions that have been important for European security, such as NATO. From the Norwegian and European sides, we need to convince the United States that formalised institutions are much stronger than coalitions of willing, and that the United States is also the best served by multilateral and institution-based cooperation. Where we disagree, however, we can create constructive disagreement. It is a goal for us in Norway that the United States and the EU can complement each other. The Atlantic Community is a pillar of the formulation of Norwegian foreign and security policy. Should we get into a situation where there is a deterioration in transatlantic relations, much of the foundation of Norwegian foreign policy also falls away. The more important it is for us to contribute to that not happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e890	The Minister for Foreign Affairs began his presentation by pointing out the need for ‘good and responsive federalities’ and ‘successful networking... for understanding and perceiving our views and interests’. In the debate on Norway's relationship with the outside world, there is a fundamental point that must not be forgotten: in the international community, we cannot just focus on who are our friends, or on who can be our opponents. The basic thing that governs the relationship between countries is interest. Over the last 50 years, more and more European countries have come to ensure their best interests through commitment cooperation in the European Union. So we have chosen to take care of our interests in our own part of the world through cooperation with the EU, rather than in the EU. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, this leads to a ‘the greater need to work the harder our national interests could best be cared for in the context of the situation... we ourselves’ have put ourselves in, in which he specifically described it. It is gratifying that the Minister for Foreign Affairs used much of his explanation of this situation and the challenges it creates. It is gratifying because it is necessary for us to start seriously the debate on whether the ‘framework’ we ourselves have set ourselves within is particularly satisfactory in the light of what is now happening in EU cooperation. We need to discuss these issues in the light of the challenges it creates for the protection of vital Norwegian interests. This debate cannot continue to be about who will cooperate with who in Norwegian policy. It must be about who Norway should cooperate with in international policies, and how - in order to safeguard our own interests and to be involved in shaping the basis for work and well-being in our own part of the world. In its half-yearly report last year, the EU delegation in Brussels pointed out that the EEA Agreement no longer gives us any special status compared to other non-members. The report states that the Commission appears ‘to today to regard the EEA Agreement as an ordinary third country agreement and not as a framework for more extensive cooperation between parties with a particularly close relationship’. And on the other hand, ‘This approach also helps to reduce the goodwill of time and resources in order to find pragmatic solutions to the needs of the EEA/EFTA countries for participation or association with new programmes, agencies or other initiatives relevant to cooperation in the internal market.’ We see the same developments in Schengen cooperation, where we are involved. The report states: ‘The dynamic development that characterises the overall cooperation of the EU in the field of justice... helps to ensure that the borderline between what is Schengen-relevant and does not become more complicated. In total, this implies that our participation at high level of office and at political level is essentially at a formal, correct but minimalist level compared to the intentions of the agreement.’ So, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, getting attention in the EU on EEA cooperation, and thus on Norwegian interests, is becoming an increasing challenge. EU cooperation, with enlargement from 1 May, will have an even greater impact on the development of our own continent in all areas, including security policy. Over time, it will not be satisfactory for us – as a small country, located on the outskirts of the European continent, with our backs to the ocean, and where we can have conflicts of interest with a large neighbour in the east – to have lobbying with the Commission, the European Parliament and 25 European capitals to try to get others to take care of our interests. To the extent that our interests do not correspond to the interests of other European countries, we cannot expect a particular understanding or sympathy when we ourselves have chosen to waive direct influence and participation in that cooperation, so to speak, all want to participate in. Since we refused to join EU cooperation in 1994, Norwegian European policy has essentially consisted of a sustained attempt to compensate for non-participation and participation where the decisions that affect us are taken. We are trying to connect to the many cooperation processes in the EU. Thus, the consequences of standing outside have not become a right of self-determination – or ‘independence’, as the representative Lilletun described it in a reply earlier today – which makes it easier for us to care for our own interests. This has led to a continuous attempt to avoid the disadvantages of standing outside the cooperation between our neighbouring countries and close allies becoming too large. Kristin Halvorsen was concerned in his speech that there is no debate in the political environment around the situation that we have one superpower that makes up for it. She quoted from Nils Morten Udgaard's analysis of NATO as a "toolbox". But what consequences SV subtracts from this, she avoided saying anything about it. Are we going to resign from the toolbox, or are we going to register in a new context, where we can better take care of our interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e947	The conflict in the Middle East between Israelis and Palestinians seems to be more entrenched than for a long time. A peaceful solution can seem unrealistic. To date, the goal has been two independent and viable states, Israel and Palestine, which can live side by side in peace, with safe and secure borders. In order to achieve this objective, the parties must demonstrate the necessary will and action to improve security and restore trust between the parties. The Palestinian authorities, headed by President Yasir Arafat, must show both the will and the ability to actively combat all forms of terror perpetrated by the most extreme Palestinian organisations. Israel, on its part, must lift the occupation and remove settlements. Even those who regard themselves as friends of Israel must be given the opportunity to stress that the policies of the present government in Israel will neither help stop the terror, increase the security of the Israeli state, nor help increase Israel's reputation in the international community. It is necessary to completely change the thinking and approach of the parties to the conflict resolution process. In this context, one cannot operate with a zero-sum approach, where, for example, what Israel receives becomes a similar loss for the Palestinians. What the parties need is a significant degree of what we can call security assistance from the international community. The Quartet, consisting of the United States, Russia, the EU and the United Nations, can play a central role in this respect. Nevertheless, we may have to admit that so far there has only been one State that Israel has listened to, and that is the United States. Against this background, we might say that it is the United States, as the world's only superpower, that has the key to dealing with this conflict. But then this security assistance has to be given in the right way. The US security assistance to Israel has not helped to support Israel's legitimate security needs against terrorism. Instead, it has helped Israel to pursue an aggressive policy that will be counterproductive in relation to Israel's own long-term security needs. In addition, we have also seen that US military assistance to Israel has increased at the same rate as the threat from Israel's neighbouring countries has diminished. In other words, the U.S. security service has not been successful. In this context, it can also be argued, as many before me, that a solution to the Israel/Palestine conflict is the key to solving the rest of the problems in the Middle East. Like what the Foreign Minister said in his statement on Tuesday, I think it will be a little too simple. Libya's re-entry into the international community, where it disposes of all programmes for the acquisition of weapons of mass destruction, is a significant advance. I will be allowed to stress that the problems in the Middle East have their background in complex causal contexts. We must therefore focus not only on one conflict but also on addressing other conflicts where they might arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e962	Let me first give praise to the Government that it will come back with a new big message on north-eastern politics. Let me also commend that the statement stressed that there are many dilemmas and difficult questions we have to deal with in this regard. I'll come back to some of them. The Nordic regions have an increasing strategic importance for Norway, but also for the rest of Europe and the United States. This is not least due to the increased transport of oil from the Murmansk oil terminal and around the Norwegian coast, both to Europe and to the United States. It is, of course, important for European countries that freight is provided, but for us it is also equally challenging to deal with the potential environmental risks posed by this shipment. But, in fact, it creates a new role for us. This spring it's 18 years since the Chernobyl accident happened. Still, there are two reactors on Kola of the same type as the one that exploded. Still, we are struggling with the aftermath of the Chernobyl accident in Norway. They are modest compared to the lives that are still lost every year on the basis of what happened in Chernobyl. Norway has been committed since then to shut down these reactors. It's been a hard job. There are many dilemmas here. Two years ago, the National Audit Service carried out an evaluation of the work done by Norway, and concluded with a target conflict, which concludes that the sum of Norwegian efforts to increase safety, by putting in place what many would call absolutely necessary safety measures at the nuclear power plants in Kola, has helped to extend the lifetime of these reactors that we would have preferred to close tomorrow. We in SV are concerned that from the Norwegian side we should give up the goal of shutting down the reactors. We have to make it clear that that's the goal. And we need to use the skill in this area to support and help Russia to make it easier for them to shut down the reactors, so that they are not tempted too much to just let the reactors go. We have to help them with the options. We also need to be stricter than what we have now been setting the conditions for our cooperation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs stresses that Norway has a self-interest in contributing to the post-cold war cleanup process, which is largely about clearing up the Kola Peninsula. Nowhere else in the world is the density of outsourced nuclear reactors greater than right there, and the need for cleanup is there. The lights represent a special threat, because they can be stolen and put on terribly crazy hands. It's good that we have an engagement with them. It is also good that we prioritize the scrapping of outsourced nuclear submarines. But let me be warned at a central point. The Norwegian attitude to cleaning up the Kola peninsula must not be influenced by a not in my backyard tanker, which insists that it is okay only to get the nuclear waste pushed a little further into Siberia. We must also be a good neighbour. We need to be aware of the need to have comprehensive solutions that do not apply to people living in Mayak – right at the worst reprocessing facility for the Russians – greater damage to the clean-up we are running. This is also a difficult dilemma. There's a lot of people living around Mayak. Probably we can conclude that Mayak is the most polluted and heavily burdened area in the world. If a clean-up of depleted nuclear submarines means that we're imposing major environmental damage on people living in this region, we're not showing good neighbourliness. Bellona, who has been present in Russia for a long time, has been very clear that we have to address Majak, and have gone far in saying that we in programs we agree to fund, do not have to accept that it sends waste to what is the Russian version of Sellafield, and then, of course, also with a much worse degree of security than what they have. I hope that you can take these thoughts with you in the work on the big message in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e983	There are many requirements to be met by a foreign minister, including: that he should sit all day without food and coffee and other natural needs. But in return, he gets a lot of interesting articles. And I'll keep one more. A foreign debate should not only be a response to the news and headlines of the last few days, but try to focus on key areas of Norwegian foreign policy. I will – if time goes by – address two people who have been up a little earlier in the debate, but who are so central that they should still be considered a little more. The Minister for Foreign Affairs put great emphasis on the situation in the Western Balkans in his speech. Several of us have previously placed great emphasis on the enlargement of the EU and NATO, and it has been mentioned in several articles. I want to make a few comments right up to the dilemma that arises, and that might put Norway in a slightly special situation. Then I will start from the whole of the Western Balkans and not from a particular country, which both Jagland, Lilletun and several others have been in. It is a special situation that an area in Europe is for the first time shut down — to say — by an enlarged EU. It does not happen abruptly and brutally, but if developments are going on, the Schengen system and the whole system will come into force in two, three, four years, depending on the pace of implementation. An area will then be closed within this EU system, an area which is not actually voluntary, such as Norway or Switzerland, which has chosen to stand outside but which wants to join the cooperation. I just want to focus on this being a new challenge, which in the first row sets requirements for the EU, but with Norwegian involvement in the area it is also a requirement for Norway to take part in the attempt to integrate these countries. What we're also focusing on is what the Foreign Minister has suggested, but where I want to go a little bit further, that this is not a group of countries, but a country has to deal with individually. The Secretary of State was in on it. The point is that there is a correlation between the situation in the different countries, so if one says individually, it is quite clear that what happens in the one country will have consequences for the neighbouring country. Therefore, one must view this as a whole. As it looks now, the EU is showing a far too passive attitude to this situation. The capacity problem that will arise in the EU with the extension that we are now facing is likely to be normal. This, as a comment on that point in the Foreign Minister's statement, and on the previous debate today, that Norway should help to speed up this integration, because it is not a question of war or peace, but a question of whether a central part of Europe should be allowed to participate in the dynamics of European cooperation or whether there should be an area that is not allowed to participate in it. Another point that we will come back to – by the government presenting a separate communication on development cooperation, and that, later on, we will have a debate on globalisation, in which most of these questions will probably come up – is about our relationship with Africa, in the sense that the Norwegian perspective on Africa will largely be based on development cooperation and less on foreign policy. For this reason, Norway’s relationship with Africa in foreign policy issues is largely very small. It is positive that the Foreign Minister highlights the Sudan issue, for example. in this context. I would just like to give a signal to the Government that the Government should continue its work with an open agenda when it comes to the debate on the Great Britain Communication on Development Cooperation, also on the basis of the discussion on the International Trade Organisation when it comes to the fact that, as far as I can understand, the President of Brazil is on his way to India to change the global trade agenda, and on the basis of the role of trade, security and conflict resolution in the social, economic development of the individual countries. This should bring much more into the debate on the allocation of resources in development cooperation and on the area in which it is to cooperate. Here and now I have no answer as to how it should happen. I would just like to give a signal that what you have indicated in this release also needs to be taken further into account in the follow-up to the development cooperation messages, so that you can see a closer link between Norwegian foreign policy and traditional development cooperation as well as the resources we put in there, in order to probably contribute even more to stabilising the situation, for example. on the African continent, which in many respects will also be an important contribution to the fight against terrorism, of which we are so often occupied.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e996	It is very commendable that the Norwegian government has had such a clear position on the construction of the wall on Palestinian soil. This has been up a number of times in international forums, and the UN has also condemned it. So even though veto was put down by the United States in the Security Council, it's a clear condemnation. It is every nation's right to build walls on its own territory if you think it's wise – it's not always wise – but it's not the right of any country to build walls on the territory of other countries, and that's what Israel is doing. It is very difficult to see how it is possible to proceed with a peaceful process in the Middle East and in Palestine when you see how Israel builds this wall of shame over Palestinian territory. The hatred and the discontent that grows, of course, will be intensified. When we discuss the conflict in Israel and in Palestine in the international debate, we talk as if there were two equivalent parties here. But it doesn't. And it's important to remember. One is an occupation power; the other is a country occupied. That means, of course, making demands on the Palestinians. The Palestinians must be required, but at the same time it will be difficult to impose requirements on the Palestinians when they do not allow the Palestinian authorities to have the authority to carry out what is then required. Israel's long-standing harassment of Arafat and his government, and also of the foremost Palestinian trustees, is a good example of how to undermine the authority of those who should have actually demonstrated authority in the autonomous Palestinian territories. This means that the first demands must be made on Israel. The first natural requirement that the Norwegian government has set itself behind, which we are pleased with, is that this wall must be demolished. There are no factual or international reasons for this wall, and it is also very difficult to see that it has any grounds for security policy. If you've seen a picture of this wall, you could have seen that it's sometimes very high, and we also know that it's a very long wall. Thinking that this wall itself can ensure Israeli security is at best naive. The requirement now for Israel is that the work on the wall be stopped, that the wall be demolished, and that the process of retreat from the occupied areas be initiated. The Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy has stressed the importance of resolving this conflict in relation to the many other conflicts that exist in the Middle East. This is in many ways the mother of all conflicts. This is in many ways the conflict where – if it is possible to imagine moving on somewhere – you have to put in the main thrust. In this case, we unfortunately see once again that the Americans are allying closely with Israel, which makes any conceivable progress very difficult, not to say impossible. Israeli society is actually maintained by American money and American support, and Israel has unfortunately repeatedly ignored the UN and the demands of world society for a further process. At the same time, it is not allowed to be optimistic. It is clear that it is possible – it has proved possible before it has been possible – to make progress in conversations between the parties in the Middle East. If a peace agreement was not reached, at least at some point a peace run was made, which also bears a Norwegian name. You have to somehow come back to this track. That's going to be the main challenge. There are not two equivalent parties we're talking about. The Palestinians must be required, who must then be given authority to carry out the duties of legitimate self-government, but the main requirement must be placed on Israel. They must withdraw from occupied areas, they must empty the settlements there, and not least: they must tear the wall of shame. As long as the wall of shame stands there, it will not be possible to make Palestinian youth believe in a future. This is perhaps one of the most important things, because if you're going to be able to create a process that leads to peace, then the people, the youth, have to believe that there is something at the other end that makes it worth a mistake. There must be a goal that makes the failure by not throwing stones, by not working with terror, in itself is a goal, because after that there is education, work and a secure future. As long as the wall of shame crosses these areas, it is not possible for a single Palestinian youth to believe that there is some hope at the other end that makes it possible to believe in peace. Therefore, I would strongly urge the Government to continue using all its contacts in the international forums to tear down this wall and tell Israel wherever it would be possible otherwise to meet representatives of Israel that this is not possible. This is simply not going to happen, and they have to listen to the United Nations for once, who have said very clearly that this wall has to go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1013	I'm not sure if it's an appropriate language to mention refraining from terror and killing as a delay. There's at least a little unfamiliar content in that term for my ears. With regard to the content of the matter, it is not very difficult to agree with the representative of Djupedal, but since it was heard as if Djupedal had passed, I would like to draw his attention to the fact that the US Secretary of State, not long ago, spoke in full public just as critically against Israel's construction of the wall as our own Minister of Foreign Affairs has done. It's probably the case that even though the United States has great influence in today's world, neither can the U.S. government dictate without further ado, whether it be Israel or other specific solutions. What is the political reality is that the so-called quartet, where the United States of America, of course, plays a very central role, is that the medium the international community can put certain hopes in getting movement into the locked-up situation in the Middle East. In the change of line after Åslaug Hagas made earlier in the debate, she commented on the statement by Secretary-General Kofi Annan on the stranded negotiations in the WTO context, claiming that he has not said anything about the content of the conflict. It's a positive error. Kofi Annan spoke very clearly and clearly about the content of the conflict, and about what has been done to threaten the negotiations by being completely fragmented. He spoke very clearly about the rich countries having to stop subsidising their food exports. It concerns Norway marginally. But he spoke at least as clearly about the rich countries having to stop protecting their own domestic market from food from developing countries. Of course, it is an honest matter to disagree with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, but if we talk so much rhetorical about the UN and the UN, and that Norway should, as far as possible, act in accordance with the political processes of the United Nations, it seems a bit inconsistent. Let me also briefly comment on the amazing fact that we have now held two rather extensive foreign debates – one just before Christmas and one now a little over a month later – where, once in the debate, what the UN Security Council has twice asked the Member States to do in terms of putting in place a stable reconstruction of civil society in Iraq. Despite repeated calls, I have not yet been able to hear a single attempt to respond, either from the SV side or from the Central Party, on how it is believed that the United Nations Member State – including Norway – should respond to this unanimous call. There could at least have been reason to expect that one would have stretched as far as the heirs did in their time when they presented their overall stand and were confronted with a reference to the Master who made known water to wine. Then the comment was, "We know, but we just don't." That's how far you could have gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1026	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1029	The Minister of Foreign Affairs is quite right: we discussed Iraq before Christmas, but it has come a lot new after that, both short-term new and long-term new. The short-term is, of course, what's in the paper. We also have to think in this Chamber about it when it is said in the major media straight out that President Bush is speaking untrue. It's like headlines. It also says that Norway is taking income for the occupation. That's what's happening in the newspaper flame in different ways. Last night in late winter, a whole world was glued to the television screens and saw direct transmission from the UN Security Council. We saw that Colin Powell presented evidence of evidence. It was a clean courtroom. Then it turns out that when the Peace Institute Carnegie tries to go through these evidence, and they've done it in a proper way, they just don't keep water! It's strange then that we shouldn't have a view that our closest allies are simply talking nonsense. What's good about the report from Carnegie is that he looks at the UN and Hans Blix's report as what should have been followed, and what we should have carried on as a future way of working in the world. They are boasted of having gone to work without prejudices and instead tried to find out what the facts are. They say that there was a clear quality work that underpinned the report from Hans Blix and the UN, while our closest allies actually speak untrue. If we are to take a word of propriety into such a debate as we have today, we should be able to respond to the fact that one of our closest allies has clearly spoken falsely. It should also provide some leadership for Norwegian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1040	The Minister of Foreign Affairs was in his speech about the importance of participating in different foreign operations also in distant areas. It is probably possible to discuss whether Norway should engage in all areas of conflict in the world. Because we're a small country, we need to give priority to the help we can provide. Cooperation with other countries is important here. I miss a priority by importance, and that we take care of our alliance partners on the other side of the Atlantic. For example, Norway is good at criticising the United States for 600 prisoners on the Guantanamo base in Cuba, while there is great silence when UN member Norway agrees to hold more than 100,000 prisoners imprisoned for more than nine years in Rwanda without law and judgment. It is easy to criticize others, but it may not be a good idea to throw stones when sitting in glasshouses. To criticise, it is important that all aspects of a case be highlighted, that both parties be heard, and that the consequences of not doing anything is assessed. Finally, some words about financial contributions made by Norway to different regimes. We should become more critical here, especially of countries involved in conflicts outside their own country. It will be important that aid to poor countries does not become a sleeping cushion for them, but aims to make these countries self-held. Otherwise, it would be important, in my view, for Norway to contribute to the roll-out of terrorist networks and for warlords to be disarmed, whether in Afghanistan, Colombia, Congo or other countries. This is important in order for the population to be at ease without going into daily fear of being killed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1051	I actually drew myself because what Bjørn Jacobsen came up with, really, is a very important topic -- this is that you have based a policy on information that, I guess you can still say, can turn out not to vote at all. I think that is a serious problem, for example: for us as a small country that relies on us to rely on information from others in very many cases. But I would say this is a broader problem. For example, perhaps they should have been informed of the extent of these terrorist networks before 11 September. Actually, it was a good part that came out, but not very much. Suddenly we became aware of the magnitude and extent and danger of this. And so El Baradei came a few days ago and explained to the world that this might be a greater nuclear threat than the one we had during the cold war. And then I have to remind myself: there was no scientist, no intelligence organization, who in its time was able to predict that the Berlin Wall would fall. Just three months before the Berlin Wall fell, the New York Times – I remember it very well – had a two-page survey, where I think there were 100 researchers who were to comment on what would happen in Eastern Europe. Nobody said the Berlin Wall would fall. My point is that I think we might always be a little bit careful to base ourselves on that kind of information. I would like to refer to something that was on the NRK a few days ago, where a scientist suddenly stood up and claimed something about these Rules of Engagement, about which there was a great debate. I wonder how much you really had researched it. Is that research? Or is it vision? For example, none of these scientists have stood up to me. I am, after all, the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I might have said, if I was asked, that at least I would have to have a few days before I would answer. Then you might have been close to having researched it, as we are constantly confronted with research results and information that to the seventh and maybe last is not one of the parts. My point is that I think we politicians actually have to make some political decisions sometimes. And as far as Iraq is concerned, we must now decide: shall we argue about the past? It is in itself important to have it illuminated, but it is even more important to ask ourselves: what are we really going to do in Iraq? Will we sit and wait for the Americans to get stuck? I think it's a bad idea. Or are we going to make a policy with the Americans and the Europeans to try to get out of what might become a pleasure and a problem for us sooner or later? I think that is a much better approach to what we are about to do, both in Iraq and throughout the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1062	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1699]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1078	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers for each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1085	I registered at the end of the debate during the previous case that the representative Blankenburg expressed concern about the general state and condition of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But as I know the Minister for Foreign Affairs, he likes to take another glass in the form of an important foreign policy debate, which belongs naturally to the debate we just had. In his statement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom last Tuesday, he stressed that Norway, through its constructive cooperation with the EU, is helping to build peace and stability in Europe. By supporting under economic growth, balancing welfare differences, rebuilding war-torn societies and democratic reform processes, we are also helping to invest in our own security. That is what we must have in mind when we are today deciding on the Government's proposal on the accession of the 10 candidate countries to the EEA. An enlargement of the EEA area is linked to the enlargement of the EU, which formally enters into force on 1 May of this year. This is a historical event. For the first time in European history, 25 European countries are brought together in a larger political, economic community, where the creation of a common future based on common values, common institutions and common interests is fundamental. For a non-EU country, too, EU enlargement offers greater opportunities. As living standards and economic growth rise, a market expanded by about 75 million inhabitants – about 17 times as many as the total population in the three EEA countries – will also provide great opportunities for Norwegian export industries. It again shows that the future of the European Union is also Norway’s future. An enlargement of the EU will in the long term lead to a cohesion of living conditions in Europe, and this in itself contributes to increased European security, and which will also benefit all European countries, including those per country. are not members of the EU today. This is something that all, both those who are followers and those who are opposed to Norwegian EU membership, should be able to end. In considering this proposition today, it is worth stressing, as the Government also does, that an EEA extension itself will not change the substantive content of the EEA Agreement. This proposition comes as a result of the accession of ten new countries to the internal market of the EU and, in this context, they are obliged, pursuant to Article 128 of the EEA Agreement, to seek to become a party to the EEA Agreement. On the basis of this provision, they applied for EEA membership immediately after they had themselves negotiated their membership agreements with the EU at the Copenhagen European Council in December 2002. The proposal refers to the opening of negotiations on the EEA enlargement on 9 January last year and the fact that these negotiations lasted until 6 June. The Agreement was initialled on 3 July and finally signed on 11 November. The background to the late signature was, as we should all know, the dispute between the Principality of Liechtenstein and the Czech Republic and Slovakia over the question of compensation resulting from the peace settlement after the Second World War in 1945. In this context, reference is made to page 84 of the Proposition, detailing Liechtenstein's bilateral relations with these two countries. The outcome of the late signature is serious in the sense that it has delayed the ratification of the entire agreement. This is a so-called mixed agreement, as it is both an agreement between the EU Member States, the EU’s 10 candidate countries and the three EEA countries in EFTA. In addition, there is an agreement with the European Community, which means that the European Parliament will also ratify the Agreement. It is essential that this Agreement may enter into force at the same time as the entry into force of the Treaty of Accession of the European Union on 1 May of this year. As demonstrated by the comments of the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, EEA cooperation will in practice cease to work if there is no simultaneous extension. Ratification of this agreement now will therefore help to put pressure on the other countries that they too must have ratification in place, so that the agreement can enter into force at the agreed time. In this context, I refer to the second paragraph of Article 6 of the Agreement which states that the Agreement shall enter into force at the same time as the Treaty of Accession of the European Union, provided that all instruments of ratification or approval have been deposited before 1 May. The proposal shall state in detail the content of the agreement as well as the three agreements to which it relates. One agreement is an additional protocol on imports of fish and fishery products originating in Norway. The second is an agreement with the European Community on a Norwegian financial instrument for the period 2004-2009, and the third is an agreement with the European Community on certain agricultural products. Negotiations on fish and fishery products were long and difficult. As the rapporteur-in-Office for the consideration of this proposition, I would like to admit that the outcome was only the second best for Norway. Instead of duty-free access, which we have today, this freedom of duty will be replaced by duty-free quotas. Norway has obtained duty-free quotas through the negotiations for frozen herring fillets and herring fillets, frozen round herring and frozen round mackerel. In addition, the duty-free quota on frozen placarded shrimps is increased from 5500 tonnes to 8000 tonnes. Exports of herring fillets and herring flaps in addition to the duty-free quota will then have the same tariff preference by reducing the rate of duty on frozen herring flaps from 15 pst. to 3 pst. from 1 May 2004. In the public debate, it has been shown that Norway will make a large financial contribution to the enlargement of the EEA. Our payments will almost double in proportion to what we pay per. today. Norway’s contribution comes as a contribution set out in a new Protocol 38a to the EEA Agreement, where the total contribution of the EFTA States is 120 million. EUR until 30 April 2009. The Norwegian contribution shall be EUR 113,4 million. EUR, about 941 million. kr. In addition, and as a result of the one agreement, a separate Norwegian financial instrument shall be established, which will also amount to 113.4 million. euro. As pointed out by the majority of the Committee, this is a significant financial contribution. Norway, with the amounts involved, will contribute far more than the number of current European Union countries contributing to the EU’s common funding. In this context, it must be allowed to suggest that many will find it strange that you pay higher fees to be a non-member of an organisation than what you pay to be a member of the same organisation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed in his statement last Tuesday that Norway was among the countries in Europe which provided the most proportionate support to the new Member States of the EU. Those who have criticised Norway’s large amounts should bear in mind that Norway is one of Europe’s most prosperous countries. We have a clear responsibility to help balance the dividing lines in Europe, and it would be unwise and inappropriate of us not to contribute to the historical development of our continent now within. It is important to stress that it is of great importance that the amounts to be contributed, set up and administered in such a way that Norway participates in and governs the use of the contributions in the new Member States. Norwegian contributions should help to promote Norwegian interests in the EU and strengthen our relations with the new Member States. Although the scheme is based on the principle of beneficiary management, it is desirable to include Norwegian actors: businesses, educational and research institutions, organisations and other relevant institutions in projects where it is natural. Finally, a brief comment on the minority comments from SV and the Center Party. These members argue that Norway can have an agreement with the EU, similar to the agreement that Switzerland has. This is a very loose assumption, and there is no shadow of coverage for such an assumption in the ‘Thinktank Europe’ report, referred to by a researcher linked to the NUPI. The Swiss model is a much more looser link and, in most respects, a much worse form of agreement than the EEA agreement Norway per year. today. The first of the two proposals included in the vote by the minority, SV and the Central Party, is in reality a proposal not to approve the vote, not to ratify the agreement. If such a proposal against all presumption were to be given a majority, it would not be appropriate to vote on the vote at all. The Norwegian side will then have to start all over again with blank papers and dyes and try to renegotiate, first with the other two countries with which we are dependent, and then with the 25 EU countries. I have understood that the minority believes that this is not an alternative proposal, but that it is a proposal that you can vote in favour and hope to have a vote down, so that you can then vote in favour of the vote. Politically, it is not quite easy for others to understand that it is possible to believe two fundamentally completely different things about this agreement, but that is not the problem of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1117	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1120	There is not much disagreement between the undersigned and the representative in this matter, but I would like to dwell a little on the wording that concerned the amount of the financial contribution. With regard to the negotiations on quotas for fish, the representative admitted that it was only the second best solution. When it came to the financial contribution, you almost got the impression that since we were so rich, it was pretty good that the contribution was on the size it was. Is the representative's salary comfortable and comfortable with the fact that it is a financial contribution of DKK 1.8 billion per year? years? I ask because it may well be that the EEA is to be extended in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1125	In all negotiations of this kind, there will be a gap between the parties. The requirement of the European Commission when the negotiations opened was DKK 4.5 billion. The final result was NOK 1.8 billion. At the same time, the course of these negotiations illustrates what is the fundamental problem, and what makes Norway's situation difficult, namely that the ratio between the parties after enlargement will be 1 to 100 measured in the population. It is not a very simple starting point for negotiations. And when one adds that, in the absence of something better, the EEA Agreement is absolutely necessary for Norway, and that we are totally dependent on it, while the other party is absolutely not dependent on it, I would, for my part, express some admiration for what the Norwegian dealers have been able to achieve under difficult weather and traffic conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1130	The president's sorry, but Inge Wohnung probably got a little bit of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1133	There's nothing to complain about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1138	Let me just briefly repeat to the representative that there is no contradiction in the proposals that are being promoted here. We believe, of course, that any nation is free to conclude the agreements it wishes. The ten new EU Member States want to enter the EU, and of course they are free to do so. Of course, that we should in some way stand in the way or be a barrier to that, is not the position of SVs or the centre party. But that doesn't mean we don't think that's wise. That's basically what's my challenge to the Representative for Wage. When the proposition states that there is no alternative to the EEA Agreement – I accept that those who are followers of Norwegian EU membership believe that membership is an alternative to the EEA Agreement – I think it is strange that there is no recognition of pay and his agree ments, so when it is said from the Government that there is no alternative, that we are asking for an analysis of the options that might be available. Theoretical or not theoretical, practical or not practical – I think it is nice to choose this acidic and little-reflected approach to the attitude that we actually have. So there's no contradiction in what we're doing here. What we're doing is very consistent.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1145	I think the representative Djupedal must have heard wrong. I did not express my opinion on proposal No. 2 from SV and the Center Party, I gave my opinion on proposal No. 1, which is intended to oblige the Government to resume negotiations with the EU on a specific point. What I pointed out was that if this proposal were to have a majority here in the Grand Duchy, the vote would go away, because that means that the Grand Duchy does not ratify, does not signify its agreement, the agreement that has been negotiated. That SV believes it is possible on this basis to believe both parts at the same time, both not to ratify and then to go in for subsidiary ratification, what I pointed out is difficult for others to understand the logic of. But as I said, it is the problem of the minority and not the problem of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1152	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1156	It is now beyond three months until EU enlargement is a reality. Countries that did not even exist when the Berlin Wall fell on 9 November 1989 become EU members and also become part of the European Economic Area from 1 May. Seventy-five million. people who were behind what we called the Iron Curtain will from then on take part in the most extensive international cooperation the world has ever seen. This is a historical event that is going to be dealt with throughout the sections of future history books. What belongs together is growing together, as Willy Brandt once expressed it. The ten new Member States are entering the EU with solid backing in referendums in their respective countries. Of course, they have noticed that EU membership strengthens the economies of countries, develops backward regions, consolidates democracy and gives individuals greater security and new rights across borders. They have realized that cooperation and community provide better solutions to today's challenges. I think it is important to have this backing when we today agree to the ratification of the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is one of the cornerstones of Norwegian foreign policy and is now being extended by 75 million new people. Of course, 75 million people and 10 new countries mean important markets, which are now opening up to Norway. But I agree with Minister Petersen’s statement that the EEA is not only ‘shop’, but that it is at least as much about ‘policy’. It is about politics, because we have closer and more extensive cooperation with countries from Estonia in the north via Central and Central Europe to Malta in the south. We will contribute to what is perhaps the largest solidarity project in Europe after the Marshall aid, which helped to build today's Western Europe after World War II. In other words, we take responsibility for lifting our own continent, just as the United States helped Western Europe at the end of the 1940s. We're gonna be proud of that. However, cooperation is also an investment in our own security. Connecting countries through interdependence is a strong contribution to creating peace and stability. This is how we, if not completely, participate in the great peace project of the European Union. Some criticisms have been raised against the increased quota for the EU. We're now going to pay almost $2 billion a year. It's a tidalization of our previous contributions. It can be said that we actually pay more money for an agreement that is no better than the one we had. However, it is important to stress that Norway’s increased contribution is for important purposes, such as social and economic cohesion, environmental measures and regional development. In other words, we are making a strong contribution here to eradicating differences, ensuring democracy and improving the economy throughout Europe. This is a direct investment in our own security. Many believe that Norway is now paying a higher quota for a worse deal. However, this is an option that is far more preferable to cancel the contract. We have to realize that an EEA agreement will safeguard Norway's interests financially as well as politically much better than if we cancel the agreement without an alternative than an obsolete free trade agreement. It would have further weakened our political influence and our impact in Europe and put thousands of Norwegian jobs at risk. The Labour Party can never agree to that. Of course, we are aware that the amount that Norway contributes to the EU exceeds what most EU countries provide. The agreement in the fisheries sector could also have been better. But this is an illustration of our situation, where we are more dependent on the EU than the EU is on us. We pay most, but at least we have to say. Today, Norwegian politicians – both in Stortinget and the Government – work to ensure that EU countries are aware of the EEA Agreement. It is true that the EEA is better known in Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein than in EU countries. This must be in the back of the mind of the Foreign Affairs Committee and other major committees when we are in contact with politicians from other European countries. In the near future, the Foreign Affairs Committee will include: visit other Nordic countries in addition to the largest of the new Member States, Poland. Just as the Minister of Foreign Affairs travelled to Ireland to take care of Norwegian interests when the Irish took over the EU Presidency on 1 January, other Norwegian politicians have to contribute to the announcement of the EEA Agreement. This task is, to put it mildly, particularly demanding with 25 EU Member States. The majority of the Committee, i.e. the lots which voted in favour of the EEA Agreement more than 10 years ago believe that the fisheries system with duty-free quotas that will now be introduced is only the second best system. Yes, we have to take inwards that Coast Norway should be ensured a better system. It is with great interest that I have noticed that the county rapporteur of the Central Party in Troms, Ronald Rindestu, will lead the organisation ‘Coast into the EU’. This organisation is a very clear expression that we have not got a non-profit agreement. The potential for exports of processed fish products is still high and market access is not sufficiently ensured. In addition, the industry is experiencing considerable uncertainty regarding criminal duties and anti-dumping measures. Ronald Rindestu and a number of other prominent representatives of Coast Norway have understood this: Norway needs EU membership. The EEA Agreement is the most comprehensive international legislation in which Norway participates. It is important for the Workers' Party to stress that measures in relation to the labour market and different welfare systems will be treated as a matter of their own in the Stortinget. We are therefore pleased that the Foreign Affairs Committee does not address these issues in the context of this matter. The EEA Agreement is very much as dynamic as EU cooperation. When cooperation in the EU is expanding both in breadth and depth in a way that was not foreseen ten years ago, the EEA Agreement remains necessary, but not sufficient, to safeguard our interests in the best possible way. In short, the EEA Agreement does not give us sufficient influence, involvement or attention. Nevertheless, it is wrong to blame the contract for not being able to perform the tasks it was not intended to perform. So, as you can see, the EEA Agreement is the best we have. But we need to be absolutely aware that we are going to face major challenges in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1199	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1202	The representative of the Eyegen described the EEA Agreement as a cornerstone of Norwegian foreign policy. In that light, it is a bit interesting to read the book to the representative of Jagland, ‘Ti theser about the EU and Norway’. In cap. 8, Norway becomes a vassal state outside the EU, writes the representative, Igland, that the whole EEA system may collapse. So that's right. Is it not true that, in any case, Norway had been served by taking steps to explore alternatives to the EU? Earlier today, the representative of Wage has told us about the difficult negotiating position of the Norwegian negotiators. I agree. Without an alternative, it's hard. Why is it so difficult for the Workers' Party to vote in order to investigate the alternatives that Norway desperately needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1207	We've gone a little bit into what the Swedes have achieved, and we're actually assessing the agreement as much worse than the one we have. Nor will they be able to adapt to legislation if they are to enter the European market. But they've been negotiating for years and reaching an agreement that's already out of date when it's available, so they have to start with one single time to make new negotiations. The agreement also gives no better political influence than the one we have. We also have the Court of Justice within the EEA Agreement to ensure Norwegian companies in special situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1212	The representative's eye is constantly concerned that the central party's Ronald Rindestu has agreed to membership, that he is in favour of it. To that it is only to note that I have also met a couple of workers’ parties – or several – who were actually against EU membership. However, I would like to ask the representative Øyågen a question based on the fact that both the yes-page and the no-page in Norway acknowledge that there are major weaknesses in the EEA Agreement. Yes-page and no-page in Norway do not agree on the need for a new membership debate, but we on no-page also recognise that the debate is in a climate – it is coming. That debate we want to meet with transparency and with knowledge. When the representative Sørensen asked the representative Eyeågen about what you're afraid of, that is, why you're so worried about the Swiss model, the answer from Eyeågen was the proof that there's a need. For example, there is no legal mechanism in the Swiss model. That's what makes it interesting. The economist thinks it's a good deal. My question is: Who in Switzerland is it that thinks this is such a bad deal for the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1223	The President asks the representatives to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1226	It may be tempting to ask the question back. I haven't heard any good arguments so far that the Swiss solution is better. It involves, as far as I see, a smaller degree of integration and is an agreement even more in deficit than the one we have. It also lacks mechanisms for disputes, which may be problematic for business in given situations. That's why it's an even more inadequate agreement than the EEA agreement we have. If we are to solve the basic problems that we have, when 25 Member States on our continent are in the EU, it is only one option, and that is that we are also going in and taking part in the processes that are there. Then, of course, it's not just positive things to say, but we're going to be able to decide, something we can't do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1233	Let it be clear: SV has not married any Swiss model. What we have asked the majority to agree to is to explore real alternatives to the EEA Agreement. I have a little bit of difficulty understanding why it's so dangerous, precisely because we need such alternatives even with the situation we have today. We put our dealers in an impossible position by repeating and repeating that there is no alternative. Then we have to accept that it is in the interests of the nation that we get real alternatives to what the island describes as the cornerstone of Norwegian foreign policy. Then I must also ask for an answer as to whether the representative Eyegen shares the opinion of the representative Jagland that the whole EEA system could be in danger of collapsing. Is the representative Eyeågen absolutely sure that the Norwegian people will then jump into the EU? Is that the strategy behind the way you think?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1240	An agreement with 25 other countries cannot be determined. We can do as many academic exercises as we want here in Norway, but it should actually be negotiated with the same countries with which we currently have the EEA Agreement. It's being created an understanding that we need to have such a different agreement. What I feel quite certain about is that if the government has now received signals in this very difficult process of EEA negotiations, that it would have been much easier for Norway to get a better agreement if we let ourselves on a different model than the EEA, I actually believe that the government had assessed that option. These negotiations were so difficult. Now Prime Minister Bondevik has clearly said that there is only one alternative to the EEA Agreement, and that is EU membership. So then we can just sit here and figure out. But I think we have to stick our finger in the ground. We do not live alone in the world, and we cannot dictate a new agreement through an investigation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1247	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1251	I must also be allowed to say first of all that it is gratifying with such an extension of the EEA. We're supporting that below. I will comment a little on the negotiations. We have pointed out that we had probably wanted a more extended framework for the negotiations, and that a few more issues had been addressed than what was done. But we just have to accept that this was more marked by adjustment negotiations, of course, as a result of having ten new Member States. At the same time, we see that the EEA Agreement – despite being a fairly good agreement, which provides us with predictable framework conditions – is not up-to-date and is weakened to the extent that every change is made in the EU. This can be a challenge in the years to come. Of course, drawing 25 Member States to the negotiating table for a revision of the EEA Agreement can also be a major challenge, if that is what we want – it could be desirable in some areas. When these were adjustment negotiations, however, and to the extent that they accepted it, we were surprised – as it may well also have wondered the Government, what do I know – that the Commission made such demands on financial contributions as it did. When that happened, however, you can claim that we should have presented some more offensive claims than what we did. We stressed the desire to involve agriculture in the negotiations, which is not normally part of the EEA process, mainly to achieve something more on market access for fish and perhaps to reduce the requirement for the financial contribution, which we already knew was very large. We understand the government's position here and recognize that in relation to agricultural policy we have a different policy from that of the Government and the majority of the Storting. But we think it would have been a better approach, and that we could thus achieve more on fish than we could do. Nevertheless, this is not a violation of the Norwegian negotiators, which we feel have made a splendid effort with the mandate they had at their disposal. With regard to the financial contributions, we are very pleased that an overall committee says that these contributions must seek to promote Norwegian interests in the EU as far as possible within the existing agreement. That it's not mentioned in the proposition, it gets to be, but it's very good that the committee now includes this. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also tabled a proposal on this subject, proposal No. 3, which we choose to turn into a transmission proposal. We expect that when a united, unanimous committee has such a clear wording as this, there should be no problem for the further work to ensure that Norwegian interests can participate in these contributions. Contributions will be significant, and for Norwegian research communities, organisations and businesses, this could provide opportunities that we hope can be used and benefit both Norway and the countries where the contributions are to be used. It was a very interesting debate now, on the one proposal from the Central Party and the SV, proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The progress party is generally not opposed to considering different alternatives, but I have to say that I have a great sense of what the representative Eyeågen said in his last reply to the representative Sørensen. So we know where the world is – and I'm very sceptical about the proposal. See that we agreed to find out what is best for Norway, and the government or an expert committee investigated this and put a phase on the table that said it or that, would the debate then be over? Would we accept such an investigation? Would we take it to Brussels and say that here we have the solution? Of course it's not like that! This is created in a process, and we know what's out there. I understand that there are now political processes in all parties in Norway about where we want to go. We're going to come back to this in depth. The wording of the proposal also means that we do not feel that we can be involved in this, an agreement that ‘institutional and substantively takes better care of Norwegian interests than today’s EEA Agreement’. I think we also disagree on the location of the weaknesses of the EEA Agreement. For our part, we see weaknesses particularly in relation to fish and perhaps not so much in relation to institutional matters, although we understand that for others, there are the greatest problems. There's only one example of how difficult it would be to agree on the premises for an investigation. I don't think anyone can figure it out on behalf of us and the Norwegian people, who will ultimately decide what to do with our final accession to the European Union, which is the best. It must take place in a close process between politicians and voters, in the parties and in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1272	The representative Morten Højlund has taken up the proposal he referred to, and asked for it to be converted into a transmission proposal. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1277	I would like to acknowledge Mr Høglund's redefinition of Mrs FrP's proposal. I think it is constructive and reasonable in view of the Committee's position to convert it into a transmission proposal. I listened with interest to Høglund’s consideration of the fundamental problem of the actual model of the EEA Agreement, namely that it is static and not dynamic, and that it is therefore difficult to adapt in a certain sense to the very dynamic development of the European integration process. We had no real choice when it came to how we would initially define this negotiating situation. There was no possibility for Norway to ask to start over and renegotiate the whole EEA Agreement on the grounds of enlargement. But my question is, what conclusion does Höglund draw from this finding for his party? That's the interesting political question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1284	I'm in the happy situation that I don't have to draw, or not draw, any conclusion now. As I was about to do, the parties, including the Progress Party, are at the very highest level within a process in which these questions are now to be clarified, are to be worked on. I mentioned the challenges of the EEA Agreement that we need to address. It's a moment in relation to this. If the invitation here was that I should say that EU membership would be the solution, yes, it might solve some of the problem, but create other kinds of problems again, giving new challenges that we have to face. It's not like there's a fasit here that can generally solve all of the problems. That's giving and taking. These are the compromises we have to make, and we have to figure out what is best for Norway in the long run. We are in that process, and the answer to the question asked by Inge Wohnung is to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1291	That investigations have never played a central role in the development of the Progress Party's policies is hardly surprising. But it has to be that before you sit at a table and negotiate with someone, you have to have an idea, a sketch, a plan about what you want to achieve with such negotiations. That is why we have a proposal to explore real alternatives to today's EEA agreement, which I also understand that the Progress Party seems to have some problematic aspects. Then it is really a little close to asking: how has the Progress Party intended to move forward in relation to the problematic aspects, which the Progress Party also sees that the EEA Agreement has, if it refuses the possibility of using investigations? Höglund also said that he considered the negotiating position of Norwegian dealers as difficult. Has he not also seen that if we had an established alternative, would this make the negotiations with the EU easier than they are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1298	I do feel that I presented fairly well why an investigation of this question will not give us the answers we want, giving us the basis we need in the popular debate. The Progress Party shall work thoroughly and seriously on these questions. We're not going to ask the government to do it for us. We will do that ourselves, among our members, among our trust-elected – in an open debate. We want to involve experts to inspire us and give us the facts, and we want to participate in debates. But what SV wants here is to ask the government to make an investigation that they'll use. Yeah, it's okay! But that's not the way the Progress Party works.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1303	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1306	SV's main conclusion on the issue of the extension of the EEA Agreement is that the agreement is not good enough. That is why we are making proposals that, in our view, can help improve the agreement, and we are proposing to grant alternatives to the EEA Agreement, because we do not see it as good enough for Norway in the long term. If these proposals do not get multiples, we will vote in favour of ratifying the agreement. What do we want with these suggestions? We would like to have a debate on possible alternatives to the EEA Agreement. This has become more topical than before, because more and more people, both EU and EU, are criticising aspects of the EEA Agreement. Some of the EEA cases that have come in the last year show that the EEA Agreement has a range that goes far beyond what one thought when Stortinget adopted it in 1992. Norway is coming out of negotiations with the EU badly because the Government cannot show that there are other ways of arranging the relationship between Norway and the EU. If we are voting against the ratification now, we are taking away the emphasis from what for us in SV is the most important thing in the situation today: getting a proper debate about real alternatives to the EEA Agreement. That the EU initially demanded that EU companies have access to Norwegian fishing quotas by obtaining the right to purchase into Norwegian fishing vessels, I see as provocative. This was one of the fundamental questions which was clarified already during the EEA negotiations in 1992 and which were totally rejected by the Norwegian side. It is clear that Norway should be able to provide significant amounts of money for social and economic cohesion in Europe. However, there is reason to point out that Norway is now providing an amount that is ten times as large as before the enlargement of the EU with new Member States and which is far larger than the current Member States in terms of population and national product. In addition, the need for such assistance is much greater in non-EU European countries and therefore does not receive EU support to the extent that the new Member States will receive. For me, it is not difficult to see that it is natural to spend more on social and economic cohesion in Europe than we have so far been required by the EEA Agreement, but I regret that so much money is tied up to countries where the need is not the greatest. If we were to give money to smooth out and develop, we could do it in other ways. There is now a direct input into the EU box, and then it is passed on. And there are many other countries in Europe that could think of long before they now become new members of the European Union. The agreement with the EU meant that from 1 May 2004 EU fishing vessels could send fish in transit through Norway. As a motive, Norway will have – as far as we have done well for here today – a shrimp quota, etc. When EU vessels can send their fish directly from the port of Norway to processing establishments in other countries, it will weaken the raw material base for Norwegian processing establishments and thus give Norwegian fish processing more difficult conditions of competition. This may also lead to increased price competition for Norwegian fresh fish delivered directly to EU countries. We see this as a permanent feature of the EEA Agreement. We are changing the structure, while the advantage of a higher duty-free shrimp quota is reduced the more the EU reduces the customs duties on shrimp imports. Such customs reductions have been put into practice through the WTO. I don't think it's long before the Norwegian and Icelandic fishing industries can claim the same transit rights as the agreement provides for EU vessels. A right of transit for EU vessels can therefore be the first step towards a general transit right for those landing fish in Norway. In this case, the entire Norwegian system of fish turnover collapses, a system that has given the coastal population a high degree of control over their own nutrition and their own living conditions. That is why we are in favour of the right to transit for EU vessels landing fish in Norwegian ports being part of the agreement that is now being concluded with the EU. There is a background to the proposal that the Government be asked to include negotiations with the EU at this point in the agreement. There we ask the Government to renegotiate, and I assume that none of the parties in this room likes this transit solution that we have had to accept. We know that the whole coast – whether it's in Skarbøvik in Ålesund or it's in Berlevåg – depends on getting fish on land in order to use the largest natural resource we have, even in a employment situation. The overall outcome of the negotiations is bad for Norway. This is not a result which, as it is called in the proposition, ‘in terms of scale and device, is proportionate to the content of EEA cooperation and the nature of the challenges’. The outcome of the negotiations is a new example of the importance for Norway in the long term of finding alternatives to the EEA Agreement. Why did the negotiations go badly? An important reason for such an unfortunate negotiation result is that the Norwegian authorities have given the Norwegian negotiators an unusually weak negotiating position. In the proposition, it comes to expression in this way: ‘There is currently no real alternative to the EEA Agreement in order to safeguard our interests vis-à-vis the EU.’ In the SV we believe that as long as the Government insists that there are no alternatives to the EEA Agreement, in such negotiations with the EU, we will continue to be pressured to accept untimely solutions. There was no need for alternatives to the EEA any more than the Government itself during the negotiations. The government is the one who would have liked most to have the alternatives to the EEA in depth and finished before the negotiations started. Both for the Government’s own part and not least for the EU’s negotiator, it would have been a good idea to show that there are actually alternatives. As you know, it was also found during the negotiations that it could at least seem as if Poland were running and negotiating on behalf of Norway. I'm not going to say anything about that, because I didn't participate there – it's as well-known as the government that's negotiating for us. But both the Foreign Minister and I were at the fisheries meeting in Bergen last week, and there were also people who had at least perceived it as if Poland did it. If that's true, I'm not going to do well, but it shows that we can get in such a situation that once again gets a new proof that most people perceive that this was a bad deal for Norway. Negotiations couldn't have been better if we couldn't give our negotiators a negotiating position that is significantly better than what we had. They will first be told if the Government makes it clear that there are alternatives to the EEA agreement – that we are not content to find ourselves in all the demands that come from the EU. NUPI disclosures show that alternatives to the EEA Agreement exist. Among other things, SV considers it necessary for the Government to take the initiative to eliminate real options. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, clearly writes in his book that the EFTA pillar of EEA cooperation can become much weaker and eventually even collapse. This is only an example of the need for an alternative to the EEA, if it is so serious that the whole of that cooperation can actually break down, if one does not mean that Norway is going to enter the EU as a result of such a possible breakdown in the EEA. From the SV side, we would like to take part in a debate on these options. But what's important now is to get things done on the table that look at good and bad aspects of different options. One way to start is to ask: what is the most important change in today's EEA agreement? The most unworthy thing about the EEA Agreement is that in areas by region, we have to put in place a policy that nobody in Norway is in favour of. It applies to differentiated employer charges, the Patent Directive and the Food Mining Directive. We're in a situation where the EEA Agreement forces us to implement a policy that we're not really in favour of. The background to these conditions is that we have not, at least so far, had a government that has wanted to use the veto right, the government element contained in the agreement. EU Member States are going to legal proceedings in different areas and are winning — and losing — in areas where Norway is not using this option. And the EFTA Court is not exactly overworked!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1356	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1359	Point 1: The proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to resume negotiations means that one will not ratify. Therefore, Bjørn Jacobsen says that if there is no plurality for this proposal, a vote for ratification will be taken. This is an option to validate. Point 2: To the proposal to eliminate alternatives. Then Bjørn Jacobsen and those who want to cancel an alternative – as long as they say clearly that the option is not membership or merely cancel the agreement – that there should be a trade and cooperation agreement that takes better care of Norwegian interests – send to those who are going to cancel, a more detailed specification of what he means by ‘better’!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1366	Is the representative Jacobsen going to make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1370	The President is absolutely right in that! I will record the suggestions from the Center Party and SV that are in the configuration. If I understood Mr Blankenburg's right, we would break the principle of free and independent research. It is clear that when the Government is going to do a handout to find a better way to regulate the relationship between the EU and Norway, the Government is completely free to use any appliances they want. We have sent a signal, as I list here instead, about the problematic aspects we see in the EEA Agreement – democracy, etc. A number of employee party representatives, including: Olav Aksensen, in the media and elsewhere, has listed much that they think is completely wrong with the EEA agreement, that he is like a housekeeper contract, etc. It is clear that when the Government starts the distribution work, it should not only go right to the different political parties, but of course also go out and acquire good distribution capacity, so that we get a clear picture of how a future agreement between Norway and the EU becomes best, not least for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1377	The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1380	The representative Jacobsen said that the Norwegian contribution under this agreement will go ‘directly into the EU cash register’. This must mean that the representative Jacobsen has not read the proposition, because it says something quite different. To this strange investigation proposal: As far as I know, both the SV and the Central Party have had in their programmes for ten years that they want to terminate the EEA Agreement. I thought that when you programmed such a position, you would have realized what the alternative was. For other parties it will at least appear to be quite irresponsible not to have it when programming such a position. You've had ten years to figure out what you're looking at, and after ten years, you can't come up with anything but asking the government to figure out what you're talking about. It's pretty strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1387	I was inside of it in my post. We clearly have an option to put forward, a proposal for a discharge. We could have voted against ratification today. But that's not really what we're interested in per. the date of issue. By operating the national meeting decision and the programming we have, we get the most important thing for us, simply to raise a debate on real alternatives to the EEA Agreement – unless we could as well have left this matter to be dealt with in the Stortinget. Of course, it would also be an option – not to even treat it. But it is very important to get a signal from all over the coast, from the hinterland, from different political environments and from industry about how the EEA Agreement works. I know that a part of business, e.g. in More and Romesdal, which I represent, is very happy that we have the EEA Agreement. I'm in discussion with them. I'm not in agreement, but that's exactly the basis for making recordings. Therefore, we believe that the Government should have a more active relationship with the EEA Agreement and with Norway-Europe. When they have the options clear, they will also be much stronger when negotiating on behalf of people and adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1392	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1395	On 1 May 2004, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia become members of the EU. A revision of the EEA Agreement was therefore absolutely necessary to ensure continued market access for those countries for Norwegian products. Although the quota is increasing, we are pleased that we have come to an end with the negotiations and that we can soon put the agreement into effect. The enlargement of the EU and the EEA can in the long term lead to a cohesion of living conditions in Europe, at least for the co-operation countries. Although the countries that join the EU can hardly be called poor, they are not rich either. They are likely to have a lot to gain financially from being lifted by the EU, as countries such as Greece, Spain and Portugal have experienced in the past. We must have an understanding that in these countries this relationship may also have weighed heavily when the decision on yes or no to membership should be taken. An important aspect of the extended EEA Agreement is the new conditions for the export of fish and fishery products to the new EU Member States. Unfortunately, it was not possible to continue the current free trade agreements with the EU candidate country in the field of fisheries. The system of duty-free allowances now being introduced is only the second best solution. At the same time, the majority of the Committee supports the Government's objective that the Norwegian restrictions on foreign ownership and investment in the fisheries sector should not be the subject of negotiations. We in the Christian People's Party are happy for that. The Sem Declaration states that the law on raw fish should not be weakened, and that underpins the fisheries policy and trade policy of the Cooperative Government. The EEA quota increases significantly with this new agreement, which has been concluded by several countries – to around DKK 1.8 billion per year. years. Norway will contribute more per year. It is built into the new Member States than the old Member States will. This is the price we pay for market access for Norwegian industry, and we have to consider it as a cost for the acquisition of income, as well as that it is natural for Norway anyway to contribute financially to the promise that has to be made here. It's a solidarity aspect we can talk about. The Norwegian financial instrument will go to the ten new Member States in its entirety. This money will help to reduce differences in economic living conditions, consolidate and develop a democratic system of governance and take care of the nature and environment of future generations. At the same time, we are helping to strengthen an emerging political community in Europe. We hear expressions such as Norway becoming a ‘vasal state’ in Europe, as well as statements that Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein are soon the only countries outside Europe. But I would like to remind you that it is not the whole of Europe that is now joining the European Union. The Council of Europe has 48 members, 25 of whom become members of the EU, while 23 countries with around 360 million Europeans are still outside. The new EEA region will have 28 member countries. This means that there will still be 20 European countries which are not part of the EEA area or the EU, and where the political and economic challenges are likely to have to be clearly greater than in the new EU Member States. So the argument that the iron carpet as a dividing line is now disappearing is not exactly right. It is more true to say that the dividing lines in Europe are moving some eastwards, and a glance at the map may be thoughtful. The border with the EU, with the exception of Greece, will mainly follow an old historical dividing line, namely the distinction between the Eastern Church, the Orthodox cultural area, and the Western Church, that is, the Roman and Protestant branches of the Christian cultural area. Countries such as Poland, the Baltic countries, the Czech Republic and Hungary — insofar as all the new Member States, except Cyprus, can be seen — were part of the Western Church and took part in the Renaissance and cultural development and the following scientific and economic developments. It may appear on the architecture, and also on the culture that still exists in these countries. This may be the basis for a good deal of reflection on the meeting between the major cultural areas and the frictions it can provide. However, I would like to pay close attention to an important point: we need to do what we can to ensure that the new eastern border of the European Union does not become a new barrier through Europe. As regards work on democracy, peace building and human rights, we must continue to use the pan-European institutions, such as the Council of Europe and the OSCE, together with the EU countries. The Council of Europe plays a very important role, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs also stated, and has been given a renewed role as an institution for the socialisation of former Eastern European dictatorships into Europe with the principles of the rule of law: democracy and freedom. Another feature of what we see in the EU is the fight for influence between old and new countries, and between large and small countries. We see that the major players, France, Germany and the United Kingdom, meet on their own and decide a great deal, partly in cooperation with some of the small, economically strongest countries. The Constitutional Convention has proposed that not all countries should be represented in the Commission, and the new countries will not receive the same level of e.g. agricultural aid like the old ones, before in ten years' time. One concern this travels is that we can face an EU with two classes of countries, the kingdoms of the West and the Northwest, and the others. But here's a lot undecided, and it's going to be exciting to see how this develops. In any case, the new countries that are now joining the EU will have a lot to gain. The most important thing for these countries is probably the economic one, but in the long term it will hopefully develop stronger political and cultural ties. This is an advantage for Europe. A few decades ago, war in Europe was a bloody reality. Today, the idea of war between the countries of the new EU appears to be an inconceivability. I would like to remind you that a broad majority in Stortinget has been well pleased with how the EEA Agreement has worked for Norway. It will now, hopefully, also work in a similar positive way in terms of market access to the 10 new countries. The EEA Agreement has ensured market access for Norwegian enterprises, and a very large proportion of Norwegian exports go to the EU, including the new Member States. Loss of this market access would cost Norway thousands of jobs and billions of dollars — so much that the so-called non-membership quota, as some have called it, will definitely pay off. Against this background, I recommend that the representatives of the Christian People's Party vote in favour of the proposal to ratify the revised EEA Agreement. I would also like to say that I agree with the representative of Inge Wohnning that it must be impossible to go in order for Norway to put its foot down and ask for new negotiations, and then start a whole new process in all these countries – and then go in at the same time to ratify the agreement. It must be very difficult. I guess you mean either one or the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1430	I just want to go along with what the representative Rise said. He stressed during EU cooperation as a clear peacekeeping project in Europe that has created cooperation between Member States, that it is an important dimension, and that Norway is in fact involved in developing the economy of these countries. As Lars Rise also presented it, it is quite clear that it is in this community of Norway that belongs to home. If it's in one way or another, this is where we belong. So it's important that we manage to integrate further to the east. But it is obvious that our closest ones are those who are in the EU today, and that there are no Belarus, Ukraine, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, for example, which are the most similar to us in size, and which are outside – for Russia is a matter in itself. So I just want to clarify what Lars Rise said about seeing the EU as also an important political instrument to ensure peace and stability in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1437	Then I would just like to take the opportunity to thank the representative Blankenburg for helping to elaborate and interpret my statement. I did not exactly use the words that the European Union is a clear peacemaking project in Europe, but I said that it is totally unthinkable that members of the European Union should go to war against each other, and that, of course, can be interpreted in this way. When the representative Blankenburg says that it is clear in this community we belong to, I actually agree when we say that we have a group of EEA and EU countries, and I underlined that it now represents 28 of Europe's 48 countries. Norway is part of this community, but in the way that we have found fit for our country. I would like to remind you that when the Foreign Affairs Committee has been travelling and met important analysts, commentators, around, among others. in Berlin and Brussels, these commentators have not been able to give a single argument as to why Norway should join the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1444	It is not quite common for cohabiters to repeat each other – they tend to take communications of that kind in the chamber. However, there is no disagreement between the representative Rise and me on the content of this case, namely the ratification of the EEA Agreement. However, these were the historical perspectives that Rise drew up, which, like Blankenburg, I find it necessary to elaborate a little bit. The truth is that the enlargement of the EU that takes place on 1 May of this year is just the beginning of a process. It is already clear that Romania and Bulgaria will be in the EU system in 2007. Turkey has been given a promise, as we know, to begin negotiations when they meet the criteria. West Balkan gravitates in the same direction. In this picture, maybe Rise is in the situation that before he knows the word of it, his demands for the pan-European are also fulfilled. Does it not seem Rise that it is a little boring if Norway comes at all as Europe's fruit jams?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1449	I'm not sure everyone knows just as well as Inge Wages what a fox dog is. But I know that many people who have been rabbis in mountain archeries have become something very good. Norway is outside the EU with 19 other countries after 1 May. Inge Wohnung now mentioned five to six countries in the loop. I do not think there are the number of countries or the number of people who are still outside, who are going to determine Norway's position. I just allowed myself to point out that after the expansion it is approx. half of Europe still outside the EU. But Norway must then look at its responsibilities and contribute financially and also rejoice that these countries will develop both their economy, their democracy and the principles of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1455	I have a question for the representative Rise about the transit of fish. Sees Lars Rise that this can lead, for example, in the long term. to a dramatic fall in employment along the coast? What is the message from Lars Rise to the Christian People's Party's Revolutionary Spokesman in Skjervøy? Does Lars Rise have any clear messages for him? Does he have any faith in e.g. that the fishing industry in Skjervøy should have a reasonable chance of surviving in the future without having the right to land fish, which is the basis for all employment and thus all coastal settlements?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1460	I have not really heard that the rapporteur, Roy Waage, has had this matter at the top of his agenda. But it is clear that in a large contract work there will be both advantages and disadvantages. There are also other disadvantages, at least challenges, of the EEA Agreement that have been difficult for us, for example. this with a differentiated employer’s fee. We believe that the differentiated employer fee was the best and most accurate measure, but the government has come up with alternative solutions that are good. The Children's Food Directive was also a problem, but now the Minister of Health believes that it is a fully sound proposal. When we considered the EEA Agreement, it was based on an overall assessment of what Norway was doing, and there the arguments are overwhelmingly positive for Norwegian economic interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-29.ana.ud471e1465	The cord shift is over. The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is late. The President will now cancel the meeting. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
