ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e59	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e64	I allow myself to propose Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e69	Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes are unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today. Since there have been questions about how the voting system is going to be in today's session, since we are dealing with constitutional proposals, the President can inform you that the voting system will be the usual one, i.e. that voting is brought together after the end of the debates on all issues. This for information. At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court of Justice. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e100	The question of whether or not to separate state and church and to remove the Government's right to appoint bishops and other church officials may not be a question that concerns most of us daily. However, these are fundamental questions of principle which at least occupy most political parties and also some within the group of ‘most people’ at uneven intervals. In a poll that was presented before Christmas, 40 p.m. stated. that we should maintain the Church of the State. There was an increase of 12 percentage points in a year. The number that would separate church from state, dropped on its side by 6 percentage points, to 36 pst. To what extent this implies a trend, it is, of course, too early to say anything about it, as on several occasions it has been a majority to distinguish. But that the topic is for debate also outside this room, there is reason to assume. The debate is likely to also have an impact on the Gehönes Committee, which will conclude by the end of 2005 either by recommending reforms of the State Church System or by proposing the abolition of the State Church as such. I take it for granted that the Genocide Committee also lends ear to what emerges during this debate, where a majority basically sees a difference, even if it is not decided today. Historically, the Church of State has had a nation-building effect, and was partly a natural way of organizing the state's relationship with the religion that has been dominant. But the system is today in conflict with both democratic and liberal values in today's society. In addition, it can be said that there is a need for a division of powers. As I said, there is no majority in favour of adopting such a distinction now, either within the Committee or as a constitutional majority. What is relatively clear, however, is that there is a fundamental constitutional desire for state and church to separate layers, to the extent that we look at the composition of the Storting today, and that the comments on the related matters are an indication of where the parties stand before the Gejønnes Committee presents its position. That should be clear. However, the fact that the Storting today does not take such a decision or modify the Constitutional paragraphs on the appointment of bishops and other church officials is good reason. There is a central change in Norway’s constitution that will take place, and it will affect a number of Fundamental Law paragraphs. The basic law is already a patchwork of rank, and we have time to wait for the sample settings before making any changes. There is a need to explore the consequences of a possible full distinction with a view to establishing transitional arrangements for the Church itself, so that the winding-up of the State Church system can take place in an appropriate manner. The question of the right to appoint bishops and other church officials is in many ways a nuclear matter, or the raisin in sausages, with different signs for the different parties – to put it that way. Unlike the principle approach to the issue of increased freedom for the Church, not only applies to the question of whether one is in favour of or against a distinction, but also by the fact that the principle followers of a distinction have different grounds for the same conclusion and emphasises the issue of the right of appointment differently. This explains most of the background to the way in which the various parties in the Committee represent an alternate majority in their comments on the question of a distinction on the one hand and the right of appointment on the other. I refrain from trying to explain in detail the positions of the individual parties here, they do better themselves. However, the majority of the committee, represented by Right, SV, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, is concerned that the state should appoint central leaders in a religious society. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party are concerned that the Norwegian Church is primarily regarded as a religious community and not as a practical and effective instrument for various governments to engage in party politics. A prerequisite for the free functioning of the Church of Norway as a religious community is that it is not hindered by its free expression of its views on issues which conflict with the various political majority on a religious basis. As I see it, this is primarily a question of whether you want power or not, and whether you dare to let such a special organization as the Church is, make statements that do not always have to suit the politically correct part of Norway. I'm not going to polemise against the Workers' Party's remarks here initially. They want ‘an open and unifying Church of State and People’s Church, which contributes to the strengthening of Community values such as closeness, human dignity, care for the disadvantaged and international solidarity’, in which ‘an open and inclusive attitude and practice towards all parts of the population’ is practised. It is an almost inviolable message. In practice, however, this could mean that the appointing authority could be increasingly used as part of party political activities contrary to the Church’s own advice and voting. The intention to secure the Church's full freedom and distribution of power creates, as I see it, almost an inextricably fundamental problem within a state church system where the right of appointment is conferred on political authorities. Although neither the proposal to separate state from church nor the proposals to remove the government's right to appoint bishops and other church officials who said will not be adopted here today, I await in suspense of the Gjønnes Committee's position, so that we get a good basis for solving these principal problems in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e117	First case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The question of state and church separation should be known for treatment in the State-Church Publicly Impaired Committee. Therefore, in the view of the Workers' Party, the time has not now come to decide on this issue. On the other hand, we should await the setting of the sample and take the time needed to address this important issue thoroughly. But when that is said, we want a mass of peoples who contribute to strengthening Community values such as charity, human dignity, care for the disadvantaged and international solidarity. The Church is an important meeting place for people with different starting points. As a people's church, it must be willing to adapt to the time we live in and show an open and inclusive attitude towards all parts of the population. In my opinion, it is yet another moment before we reach this goal, and I believe, even though the case-rapporteur, André Dahl, has given some thought to the views of the Labour Party, that it must be allowed to have political objectives for the Church as well. If separating state and church is the right answer to getting an open church, I strongly doubt. But as I said, we in the Workers' Party are waiting for the Stat Church Committee to set up. That is why we now recommend that the draft constitution should not be accepted. So to case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox If the Stortinge were to adopt the present proposals to consider recruitment processes in the Norwegian Church as an internal matter, it would have consequences for the entire church organisation and entail a major step on the road towards a distinction between church and state. The working party is concerned about and believes that there is a need for a review of the entire church organisation. The democratic basis of the Councils should be ensured by increased participation in the Council elections and by linking these elections to other public elections, as we saw in the last elections. It is important that nomination to the council more closely reflects the width of the membership mass, and that direct elections are facilitated both to the councils of bishops and to the church meeting. Furthermore, nominations and votes prior to the appointment of a bishop should be amended, with more emphasis on transparency in relation to proposals and settings. That is the principle starting point of the Workers' Party. With regard to the concrete proposals for amending the Constitution, this is the issue currently under consideration in that State-Church Committee. In view of the views of the Labour Party, we should therefore await the conclusions of this sample before we finally take a position on who will be responsible for the appointment of bishops and other church officials – this both because the questions belong in a larger context and because it would be quite pointless for the sample to make a position if the Storing had already taken a decision on these important questions in advance. We therefore recommend that the Labour Party also reject these constitutional proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e128	As shown by the setting in the first case, the Progress Party has taken a fundamental position when we say that we want to separate the Church from the State. This is a fundamental position, and I believe that political parties should not really be dependent on major investigations in order to be able to address such a question themselves. It's completely in principle. However, what needs to be investigated and assessed is how a distinction can be implemented in practice, because as long as it has been a state church, it is clear that it is incorporated as part of the country. It has also been given up over the years in the economic field many gifts and properties to the Church that many claim will have to be returned to the Church, or there must be an economic arrangement for the Church even after a distinction. That is why we will vote against the Socialist Left's proposal to amend the Constitution and make a distinction now. We're going to await the position of the Committee, which we also expect to go into the practical things, so that we can do it in a neat and proper way. So we don't want to vote in favour of the first proposal, even though we basically have some of the same view. But it's very important for the Church that you get a clean distinction, and that you get a basis for a solid and safe business. As far as the other proposals are concerned, in substance. 2, I'm one of the proposers. It follows from our principle position on the separation of church and state, that the right of government to appoint bishops should be removed as soon as possible. As I see it, there are several examples of party political appointments where the Government – primarily former workers' party governments – has wanted to influence the Church's theological thinking through the selection of the new bishops. So you've got a more party-politically run church, and that's one of the things we don't want. The Church shall be governed by the Church itself. It is fully possible, even pending the setting of the Grant Committee, to remove the Government's right to the bishop's appointments and let the Church itself hold such appointments. There have been examples of the rejection of the candidates that the Church itself has wanted as bishop by the government, and the government has appointed others. That's what we want to end with. Had one had a firm practice that was respected by all governments, that the candidate whom the Church itself wanted would be appointed, this would not have been a problem to which it was necessary to take a stand before the Genius Committee was finished. However, when this has not been the case, we believe that there should be a change in the Constitution, so that the Church itself also stands for the appointment of bishops. I therefore recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote first for our own proposal, which I am referring to here. If it is voted down, we will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which are essentially identical to our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e144	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e147	Like the previous speakers, I will first take the most comprehensive proposal, which is to distinguish church from state, and then comment on the other two proposals. A distinction between church and state was proposed by the Sivertsen Committee as early as 1975. The development of the nearly three decades since then cannot be said to have strengthened the rationale for maintaining the church system. Two key keywords for it are secularization and life-vision pluralism. I will not simply claim that the religiousness of the people is on the decline. On the other hand, there is little doubt that, in practice, there has been an ever clearer distinction between religion and the public. Religiousism has become individualised and is more of a personal matter than a social matter. The second keyword — life’s vision pluralism — may be even more important. The development of multicultural and multi-religious societies in recent decades has created a whole new situation. The number of Northmen with backgrounds from outside what we can call the Western cultural circle is more than tenfold since the time the Sivertsen Committee presented its position. At that time, Norway was still a relatively homogeneous society, although there were already clear indications that this was changing. Today, Norway is religiously complex in a way that, in my view, makes it difficult to defend the continuation of the system of state churches. It's a system that belongs to a time gone. Today, it seems far more appropriate that the State should present some basic universal values that should all be capable of being grouped together, as expressed in the UN Declaration of Human Rights. It is not least this recognition that lies behind the proposal to separate church and state and to introduce freedom of religion and life on equal terms for all in our country. This is a big and important question, and of course there's a lot more that could be said about it. However, I do not wish to elaborate on this further, as I am of course aware that, after this proposal was promoted, it has been reduced – something that many have not unexpectedly pointed out – a wide-ranging selection to highlight precisely the issues raised in this proposal. At the same time, I note that it is not appropriate for SV's proposals to have a majority in this round. With that recognition, I would like to express that we look forward with excitement to the committee's investigation and proposals, and we look forward to the debate that, as far as I understand from the progress of this work, will come by the end of next year. Regardless of this, the proposal we are now considering expresses the primary vision of SV. As Carl I. Hagen also pointed out, this is a fundamental question that we do not, in itself, need major investigations to have an opinion about. As for what also Carl I. Hagen said, if you're going to separate church and state, you have to do it in a proper and thorough way, I'm not in doubt that if our anti-principal proposal were to get a majority, it wouldn't be lacking in such a process to get this really in place. So to the proposals on amendments to the Basic Law §21 and 22, appointment of spiritual officials. In its explanatory statement, the proposers Lyngstad and Scarbøvik point out that the Norwegian Church must be regarded as a religious community. No one's gonna argue with that. But at the same time it's something more than that. In order to look at it historically, we can say so that a pact developed between the Church and the state expressed by the Church of the Church. One side of this arrangement is the fact that the State – or the King, as it is called in the Constitution – appoints the Church’s officials. Once society has evolved so that the basis for this pact is no longer present – and that is, as I have explained, what is SV’s view – the different elements of this pact will feel alien, immature, inappropriate or directly unlucky. I understand that the point of view of the proposers is that this is precisely what concerns the system of the appointment of spiritual officials, whether they are now, like Carl I. Hagen, it justifies the one way that the positions of office have been politicised, or, as Lyngstad and Scarbøvik, from the other point of view, refers to the Church's demands for greater freedom and independence. The latter point to the fact that employment of the spiritual leaders of the Church must be included in the internal affairs of the religious community, and their conclusion is that the Church itself must appoint its leaders. I do not disagree with these premises. There are many concerns that the state appoints the central leaders of a religious community. But in the SV's view, these premises help to lead to a completely different conclusion, namely a distinction between church and state. Until that happens, in our view, it would be unreasonable to change the fact that the state appoints the spiritual officials. As long as we maintain the church system, there must be a reciprocity in the social pact, as I called it. Then it must be that – in order to use Carl I. Hagen’s words – ‘even a former president of the Central Party’ may be appointed bishop. SV will therefore vote against the two proposals relating to spiritual officials, and we will therefore vote in favour of the proposal to separate church from state. I take up the SV's proposal on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e177	The representative Christian Holm has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e180	In the last decade, most political parties have joined the goal of making the Church of Norway more free and independent from the state. For the Christian People's Party, the most important consideration here has been to see Church as a faith society and not as part of the state. The Norwegian Church still has a large membership in the Norwegian people, and the ties between people and the church are strong. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the Norwegian Church is passed on as a popular church. We want an open, country-based, contemplative, tantalizing and mind-blowing people's church – as the Church itself has formulated it. People of all ages and life situations should be able to know the Church's affiliation and participate in the Church's preaching, training, care and community activities. The Christian People's Party believes that the Norwegian Church itself must have the right to determine its own doctrines and arrangements. Bishops and prostitutes are central leaders in the Norwegian Church, and their primary task is to be spiritual leaders of this faith society. An important requirement for the Norwegian Church to be able to operate as a free trust society is for leaders to be able to freely give their views on different issues regardless of what the political authorities think. The last time we saw this clearly was in the debate on the Iraq war. Then it is not natural that the same powers, represented by the Government, can choose the Church leaders. Let me stress that I do not say here that any government so far has appointed church leaders with positions such as 'fits the government' purely politically. But the arrangement as it is today, opens up for it. So this isn't right from a principal point of view. The government has reduced a public selection to deal with possible changes in state-church relations. Part of the party believes that the proposal that the Church should be given the right to appoint its own leaders should be postponed until the Stat Church Committee's decision is completed and should be dealt with politically. I'm not united in such a thought. I think on the contrary that the process of self-proclaiming the Church must not be stopped. At least several years will elapse before the work of the Stat Church Selection has been completed through constitutional changes — it may actually take ten to twelve years. The proposal to give the Church responsibility for choosing their own leaders is over-moded and can as I see it, no longer wait. I would therefore ask the representatives of the Christian People's Party to vote in favour of the minority proposal in the vote. Finally, let me say a little about the SV proposal to lift the state church system right now. Here I would like to show that the Christian People's Party has pointed out in its programme that there should be a new arrangement in the relations between the state and the Church, so that Kirkja will have a more freer position. Here I would also like to refer to the work of the Stat Church Selection. Reorganization of the entire state church system is a big and complicated matter, so here we want to wait for the settlement before we finally take a position on the matter. The Christian People's Party will thus vote against the SV proposal. I hereby accept the proposal from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e199	The representative, Mr. Modulf Augan, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e202	The central party shares the considerations taken into consideration by the Workers' Party regarding the proposal to separate State and Church, in the sense that the Centre Party wants an open and assembly church. We believe that the state church system has so far contributed to that. It has contributed to this by creating a breadth, and it has also created a democratic basis for the church work that we believe is important in relation to Christian activities. I also believe that it has to be said that through the democratic basis, not least at the level of the community and the council, it has also included many in its activities that would otherwise not have been included. I think all parties are facing a debate on the relationship between state and church. The centre party is also facing that debate, and that debate will follow the conclusions of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection when those assessments come. But today, the members of the Central Party will vote against the proposal of Øystein Djupedal and Hallgeir H. Langeland to introduce a distinction between state and church. I need to say more about the proposals in case No. 2, on the amendments relating to the appointment of bishops and church officials, which are specifically designed to remove the Government's right to appointment. It is said in the explanatory statement of Carl I. Hagen's proposal that the Government has not followed the Church's own advice and votes. It is stated in the grounds of the proposal that: ‘there has been such obvious political leadership that even a former president of the Central Party has been appointed bishop despite the fact that another person was wanted by the Church’. I would like to state from this pulpit that the claim in the explanatory statement to the Constitutional Bill of Carl I. Hagen is directly wrong, and that it is wrong to say that Gunnar Stålsett at the appointment of Bishop of Oslo did not have a church vote. It is such that the basis for the practices of bishops’ appointments is linked to the rules of nomination. It is established by a royal resolution. It is such that the Council of Churches and the bishops are to express their opinion on which three, among those who have received votes, are considered most fit, seen from the Church's side, to be appointed. There was no doubt at the time when Bishop Stålsett was appointed, that he was one of the three candidates who had the necessary ecclesiastical vote to be appointed bishop of Oslo. The centre party therefore believes that there is a basis for pointing out that the very premise for the proposal by Carl I. Hagen is wrong. It is a matter of course that one should take decisive account of the church vote, and this was also done in connection with the appointment of a new bishop in Oslo – it was in no way contrary to the guidelines on which the appointment of the bishop was based. On the contrary, the current guidelines were followed to the point and the point. The central party sees it as an advantage that one maintains the system you have today, because it helps to create the necessary breadth and basis in relation to church appointments. And in dealing with these two matters, one has to ask himself: had it not been so that the government had appointed bishops on the basis of the church vote, had we had Rosemarie Köhn as bishop for ten years in Norway, and had we had Gunnar Stålsette as bishop? I think one should take it into account when one is considering these two proposals in this room today. The centre party wishes to vote against both proposal No. 1 and proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e223	Freedom of life is a fundamental human right in a modern and liberal society. A person's choice of life's view is a strictly personal matter. All citizens must be able to feel that they are treated equally no matter what choices they make in the field of life, which are deeply linked to the individual's conscience and identity. The Norwegian church system violates these central principles of freedom of life. It will be wrong when one direction of faith is designated to the religion of the State with special advantages over other religions and views of life. The State shall not favour any outlook on life, but shall facilitate the free choice of the religion of which you wish to be a member by each sea. The Norwegian society will be a diversity of views of faith and life, and the state should be neutral and secular. It is also fundamentally wrong that the state should govern a religious community. The Church should be governed by its own members. The left will give the Norwegian Church the same freedom to sail as other religious and life-view societies do. On this background, the left wants a distinction between church and state. We share the SV's view that the time is overdue for such a reform. If we do not support SV's proposals here today, it is due to the fact that a public state-church committee has been set up to ensure that the winding-up of the state-church relationship takes place in a good way. We will therefore await the setting from this sample's work. The left is concerned that the separation of state and church must be carried out in such a way that the Norwegian Church remains a broad and open church for its members. We believe that the vast liberal majority of members of the Church will also ensure a broad and open church if the Church is given the opportunity to govern itself. Moreover, in line with the objective of full freedom of life in society, there must be no requirement for a confession to a particular religion to hold public positions. Freedom of life is a fundamental right for all. It is therefore also necessary to delete the provisions on the obligation of certification. The purpose paragraphs of various social institutions, such as schools and kindergartens, also need to be amended to reflect a distinction between state and church, to make fundamental values visible and to be inclusive of all, regardless of the religious and life-seeing background. But it is also important that social institutions are not mindless, and that they focus on common values across life views and cultural positions. So to the proposals for the appointment of church officials. The left's position is the same as I expressed in relation to case No. 1st@item: inlistbox We believe that the Church should be able to appoint its bishops and its church officials. But this is related to the reform of a distinction between state and church. It is not possible to take part in the reform out of the process in the way it is now proposed. In order to make the distinction between church and state in a good way, it is important to create a process that ensures an open and free people's church, and then it will also ensure that power is transferred equally from political authorities to the church authorities. It is true that today we have an electoral system based on the government's proposals for the three best fit. That means that the government is assigned a role to look at the breadth of the Church – if not we will have a system of majority voting in one-man circles, which may not always guarantee the breadth that we know exists among the members of the Church. That width is also important to ensure further. Therefore, it is important to have a process in the distinction between church and state so that it is valued, that it is done in a proper way in relation to the appointment of church officials. That is why the Left does not want to support the proposals in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e242	The Norwegian Church is an important national institution, which provides people with a stable value base. It contributes values in addition to current and material ones. The Church’s independence in spiritual matters must be respected. Personal religious conviction is not a matter of state. Reform work on the transfer of greater responsibilities to church bodies should continue so that a distinction between church and state becomes a reality. When a distinction between church and state has become a reality – and I take the chance to say when and not if – the Church's right to rule in its own house is also established by the Church's being given the autonomy of choosing and dismissing its own leaders. However, there is a need to identify the consequences of a full separation and to highlight alternative schemes. To this end, many issues, complex issues, of which it is important to have an overall review. Therefore, the right considers that it is necessary to await the conclusions of the State-Church Committee, as many have pointed out in this debate, and so that the winding-up of the State-Church system can take place in a clean and appropriate manner, providing good alternatives to the present system. Therefore, the right cannot support the constitutional proposals either in Document No. 12:2, in Document No. 12:4 or Document No 12:5.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e253	The most interesting thing about today's debate is that for the first time there is an actual majority against the church system in Stortinget. That this is not reflected in voting is quite right, for such a system should not be liquidated by a mere majority in the Stortinget. But there is a majority of the Biggest parties who now say that they basically believe that it is wise to separate state and church, and that one has set up a race and a process for how this should happen – I say, how this should happen. The point of the Stat Church Committee is, of course, that recommendations should be made for the Storting, but it is clear that the Stortinget has the final decision in it. If we look at our brotherly country Sweden, there was initially a political consensus underpinning the separation that has taken place between state and church. Divorce has not yet been reached. It may be wise to go through a separation phase where, in view of how this should happen, the State actually has a certain role. In Sweden, among other things, the state is responsible for the collection of the membership quota, and I say the membership quota - or church tax, if you like - because that's what it is when you choose to be a member of a church community. So it's the state that administers it. It is administered by the State of Sweden, not only in the case of the Church of Sweden, but also by other different religious communities that want to be part of such a system. The church has a lot of goods and gold. The Church also has a great historical significance, and it is clear that this should not be taken lightly on. How this should happen, who should own what, is also of great importance to us as a nation, for it is clear that the Church has, and should have, a central place in our nation. It also means a lot how to manage and take care of this. Much of this is common heritage and common good, and not necessarily just that of the Church, but that of society as a whole. What's interesting, as I said, is that there's a majority here who want a fundamental distinction, and that means that, in the future, more should be done to facilitate this. At my discretion, it will be obvious that it is both in the interests of society and in the interest of the Church that such a distinction actually takes place. Many here today have discussed why, from a church standpoint, it is necessary that the Church alone should be responsible for the bishop's appointments. There are very many good factually thoughtful arguments for why the Church itself should take responsibility for it. Just as other religious communities choose their own church leaders, so for the Church of Norway as a religious community it must also be a matter of course to appoint their own leaders. So you can't get the best of two worlds. Either one has to say that the Church is an independent religion with all that it implies – for example. that it does not have the protection of the State, and also in other areas — or one must choose to say that one wants the Church of the State and therefore also the disadvantage it is that the State actually has the right and duty to submit to church appointments. So at my discretion, you can't get the best of these two worlds, so you have to pick one or the other. What's interesting today is that the majority of the Storting actually wants to choose a race where at the end of the race you can take the order for a separation. We have promoted this proposal repeatedly in Stortinget. In every single magnification period, this is for treatment, and it is because it is necessary at any time to take up these kind of fundamental questions about our statehood to discussion. We do not expect a majority today. But we find it interesting to see that more and more people think this kind of debate is interesting, and that over the years there has been a development in political Norway where it has been facilitated by the principle majority that is now in force in the Chamber. It hasn't been like that before. Among other things, because the Storting is part of the society that is around us, the Storting is not alone in this development. The community around has also drifted in such a direction. Also, multicultural and pluralist Norway wants to express to a greater extent that the Church should have independence, that the State should not be responsible for ecclesiastical acts. I think this debate is very welcome. The next time this question comes up in the Storting, the Stat Church Committee has hopefully made its recommendations. In this way, the Storting House can take a more fundamental debate on this – and also a decision in principle – and the Right and the Advance Party, which has raised a fundamental point of view here, without supporting the proposal, can actually support the proposal. Then you can start this process for a separation, such as: in Sweden has been going on for a whole decade – and has not yet been completed. So long we'll be able to use it in Norway as well. We've had a state church for very many years, ever since the Reformation. SV has no urgency about this – it is not necessary for SV to have a majority today. But it's urgent to start this process, and it's started.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e276	We are debating an important issue today, but we could have waited with it. The Coastal Party elects to support the majority voting of the Control and Constitutional Committee. The reason for this is that the Government has set up a selection to submit its suspension in 2005. We could have waited that long. Therefore, the Coastal Party supports the majority voting. The work carried out by the sample will shed light on more things that need to be assessed better before reaching a conclusion. Among other things, the economy is very important in this regard. Of course, the Coastal Party believes that there should be freedom of religion and freedom of expression on equal terms for all inhabitants of the kingdom. We can't see that the state church system is going across this. On the contrary, we believe that having a church of state helps to strengthen the other religious and life-view societies in Norway financially, because we have the arrangement that all religious and life-view societies receive equal support for each member. In this case, the Coastal Party must support the Workers' Party in their view. We also want an open, unifying people's church that helps to strengthen the community, the community values, the nurturing love, the human dignity and the care of the individual. The Church of State is an important part of our cultural-historical heritage, and today it functions both as a believer and as a cultural bearer. As society has evolved to this day, with a great deal of uncertainty, the Coastal Party believes that the state church system, as it works today, is good. It is a safety factor for many, including weak groups. This is a factor that we want to take care of. Since there are still many important points to be considered in this matter, the conclusion of the Stat-kirke Committee is awaited. We cannot therefore support the proposal by Mr Djupedal and Mr H. Langeland. With regard to the appointment of trustees and women of trust in the Church, it should be clear from what I have said earlier that this should belong to the State. We cannot therefore support Mr Hagen's proposal either. So we are going against both proposals. We are a party to protect the Constitution – it should not be changed in time and time. The people who created the Constitution were sensible people, even though this was a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e295	When I have been involved in proposing that the Church itself be able to appoint bishops and pros, it is linked to a desire to continue the reform process that gives the Norwegian Church greater responsibility and independence. In the Christian People's Party, we regard the Norwegian Church as a religious community. Bishops and prosthetics are leaders of a religious community – and such is a spiritual leadership. This is underlined by the fact that the bishops are permanent members of the Church's learning subject. We believe that such tasks are clearly part of the Church's internal affairs, which the political system has no mandate to influence. The political environment in Norway has widely accepted this principle by showing a willingness to respect the results of the election process by the bishopial appointment of the Church itself. However, problems arise when the Government, like the Church Council, reviews the outcome of the Church's own process. For me, the consequence is that the Constitution must therefore be changed at that point. Several parties today point out that the proposals of the appointed State-Church Committee must be awaited before changing the Constitution by removing the state's right to appoint a clergyman. I believe such a argument is little in principle, and that it shows little willingness to continue the church reform process. In my opinion, the position of the majority gives the impression of an opinion that overemphasises the appointment of bishops as a core task in today's state church system, or as the 'rosin in sausages', as the case-rapporteur put it. The core of the state church system is not linked to the appointment of spiritual leadership, but the accession to the Norwegian Church as the state's religion thus gives the Norwegian Church a special position over other churches. Leaving the choice of bishops to the Church's organs is therefore not at the heart of the church system. In my opinion, it is not necessary to wait for the process around the state/church relationship before giving the Church increased internal autonomy in the form of the decisive word in the appointment of senior management positions. In the Christian People's Party, we believe the time has come for a new arrangement of the relationship between state and church. This has a number of implications that need to be explored more closely, but the outcome of such a new arrangement must nevertheless be based on respect for the Church's inner life. Especially important is keeping the close relationship between the Church and the Norwegian people. This is a wish that the Norwegian Church itself has. In my opinion, this relationship will not be decisively influenced by the fact that the Church itself appoints its bishops. The Church itself is interested in showing and exercising leadership that wins popular uprisings. It is, however, sad if the question of the appointment of bishops is to be used as part of a political game around the state church system, an argument about the need for an overall assessment. However, I still have the hope that you can approach this question in a principle way. There will not be a majority for our proposal today, but the debate will continue, and new proposals will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e308	First, a small comment of a purely formal nature. The representative, Mr. Djupedal, said in his statement that in matters like this, it is not desirable that the Stortinget take decisions by a mere majority. Of course he's right about that. The Constitution is not subject to change by as little a majority as possible, as is known. There are clear requirements for a qualified majority – two thirds – to be able to change the Constitution at any point. There is probably agreement in this room that this should be the case. There is a difference between changing the constitution of the kingdom and changing laws in general. The reason for this, of course, is that the Constitution is the foundation of all the other laws. Therefore, our whole constitution assumes that it has a different kind of duration from that of the law in general. The Constitution provides for, inter alia: to ensure continuity — the historical continuity — in the development of society. From one point of view, this debate is very little exciting, namely if you think about the outcome that you will get when you vote at the end of the meeting. That's what everyone realizes. The representative Holm also made it quite clear from the SV's point of view that it is understood that, when a public commission is set up with a deadline of two and a half years to make recommendations, it is reasonable that everyone, regardless of the point of view of the matter, is mentally concerned that the actual debate will be given when the selection makes its recommendation. There's one side to case no. 1, i.e. the SV's proposals for changes to the Constitution, which are not affected by the Committee's position and which have not been affected so far in the debate. It kind of surprises me. In the SV's proposal for amendments to the Constitution, there is an element that has nothing to do with the issue of church arrangements, namely whether the public space in Norway should be cleared for all elements with possible religious associations. I see it as the reason for SV's proposal to change Sections 5, 9 and 44 of the Constitution – first of all to remove the expression that the King's person is sacred and unburdenable, and also to remove the oath as a phenomenon and replace it with solemn insurance – is a principle view of the distinction between public and private, and a notion that all religious statements in principle belong in the private sphere and not in public space. It invites a very interesting debate, and it is a debate that is completely independent of the church system. In the United States, which is the country in the world that historically has always had the sharpest distinction between state and church, there have been doubts about this principle. It is related to historical conditions, namely how the United States came into being. After all, it was largely more divisive from Europe that established the social system in the United States, and that brought with it its experience as religious minorities from Europe. Even in the United States, which has a water-tight distinction between state and church, the dollar has the formula ‘In God we Trust’. And no president in the United States is being appointed as known without taking an oath to the Bible. I am therefore a little surprised that the SV has not placed a little more emphasis on explaining the connection between the element in the proposal that goes on the church system, which is transparent and okay, and the second element that has nothing to do with the church system. The reason why I consider this to be an important and interesting debate is that we in Europe today, due to the progress towards multi-religious and multi-cultural societies, are still seeing examples of this issue emerging in new forms, see. the fierce debate in France on the use of legislation to prohibit citizens from wearing religious symbols in public space — school and workplace. We have the same debate also in Norway, and it is certainly a debate that will come about as a result of the weight of development. Therefore, I find it regrettable that that element in the proposal has drowned completely in relation to the question of whether to change the church system. And let me say -- since I have now commented so deeply on the matter -- that I hope for my part that in Norway we do not adopt the historical tradition for which France is the most obvious exponent in Europe, because, in my opinion, it ends up in a form of anti-religious fundamentalism in its secular logic. Professor A. H. Winsnes stated during a very spectacular trial in the 1950s, namely the Mykle case, in his testimonial in the courtroom – and I quote from memory: there is only one thing I know that is worse than Norwegian puritanism, and that is Norwegian anti-Puritanism. Transferred in this field: there is one thing I know that is worse than religious fundamentalism, and that is anti-religious fundamentalism. So to the two proposals under case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox It surprises me when I listen to the reasons for both of these proposals, that it is based on a false perception of what our current constitution actually instigates of church order. One willingly says away that it is the state that governs the Church according to the present church order. It's definitely not. Then you haven't read the Basic Law exactly enough. They say that you want to remove the government's right to appoint bishops – that's Carl I. Hagen's wording. Under the Norwegian Constitution, the government has no right to appoint bishops. It is quite clear that the provisions of the Basic Law are being read. On the other hand, it imposes a number of obligations on the King in relation to the Church. The first obligation is that he must confess to the public religion of the state, that is, to the Norwegian Church. It is well to note that except for the priests of the Norwegian Church – who most will find it reasonable to have a duty to be members of the church in which they are priests, it seems reasonable – no one else is obliged by virtue of his position in today's Norway to do so than His Majesty the King. He's the only one back. The Constitution imposes an obligation on the King to enforce and protect the public religion of the State, and it also imposes a specific obligation on the King to organise all public service, as stated in Section 16, etc. But what's the interesting point in this context is that this big thing, the first time you got a prime minister who didn't belong to the Norwegian Church, created the so-called lex Mowinckel, which is today listed in the Constitution, and which says that no member of the King's council who is not a member of the Norwegian Church can participate in the treatment of church matters. It clearly says that it is not the government as a government that treats church affairs at all. Secondly, it states – and that is a logical consequence – that at least half of the members of the King's council must belong to the state's public religion at all times. Otherwise, the government would not be able to take legal decisions in matters relating to the Church. Therefore, it becomes quite misleading to discuss whether the Church itself should appoint bishops, or the state should appoint bishops, because government councils that are entitled under the Constitution to participate in the handling of such matters belong per. definition The Church itself through its membership, and it is the membership of the Church that qualifies them for this, not that they are members of the Government. Now, of course, you can say that this is the Constitution and its paper regulations. The political reality looks different. And that's an interesting and important issue. But when you're going to change the Constitution, it's the Constitution on the paper we're changing. And if you're going to change the Basic Law on this point, either in the form of one or the other proposal, the Christian People's Party or the Advance Party, then at my discretion, there's a lack of consistency that I can't believe that the proposers have thought through. Because if you take away this obligation on the government, then lex Mowinckel and the rule that at least half of the government's members must be members of the Norwegian Church, literally hanging in the loose air. It no longer has any meaning. And I'd like to challenge the proposers a little bit if they really think that you can keep that framework unchanged and at the same time take away what is in practice the really heavy decisions that today require the church council to be held. In the future, there will be no need for a church council if these proposals are to be given a majority. This, from my point of view, is just a further emphasis on the fact that the position of the majority of the committee must be the right one, namely, that if you want to take care of the whole of the Constitution and avoid making changes that distort this whole and create confusion in the system, then the wisest thing to do is to say no to all the present proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e338	First, a comment to Inge Wage about adopting a tradition. I agree with him in his description of the situation in France, but I really don't think there's any danger or possibility for anyone to adopt a tradition, even after we've made a distinction between state and church in Norway. Carl I. Hagen used the words "The Church itself" to justify his proposal. I'm a little uncertain about what he puts in the concept of the Church itself, because to me, the Church is very strange. At least it consists of different parts, including: We have a democratic church with councils up to and including church councils. Then we have an official church and a lot of other things. So what is the unique word for the Church itself is reasonably unclear to me. It's more of a rhetorical grip to try to show that you're very positive to this Church itself. Most of us understand that in order to make a major change to the Constitution, it needs a more fundamental work than what we have put forward in our Constitutional Bill. What is disappointing, however, is that the parties do not use this opportunity and this opportunity to make their principal position visible in this matter, that they do not take the opportunity to take a debate that could also be a response to the Commission that is now working on the church-state issue. I think it'll be important for them to get clear and unambiguous input into the work they're doing. A majority of this will obviously support a distinction between state and church on a principle basis, so that in itself will be an important contribution to the selection to work on these matters further. Time overtakes us all. It also applies to institutions and organisations. The State Church is an institution that is about to gather. I would venture the claim that there are no alternatives in the future but to make a distinction between state and church. We have, I think, absolutely no alternative. Those who wish for it will simply not have the opportunity to maintain this institution for many years to come. We've become a pluralistic society. The different religions and the different ways of life live side by side in an OK way, but that also means, because we're not a homogeneous religious society anymore, we're a pluralistic society, that we have to take the consequences in terms of loosening the ties between state and church. What's interesting to us is that the Church itself – and then I'm talking about the democratic bodies in the Church, namely the Church Council – appointed the Bakkevig committee, with which everyone is familiar, and a nearly unanimous Bakkevig committee concluded that proposing that the relations that we have today need to be changed. I guess that's what they called it, so they understand that a dissolution of the state church will have to come. I think it's quite impressive, it's well done at least, that a church that initially has privileges, voluntarily chooses to say that we have to change them, and there we have to make changes. I think that the Church, at least the selection, should have praise for having acknowledged and said. I would also like more parties in Stortinget to be clear and unambiguous about the need for this distinction. I also want to say that after a distinction between state and church, it is important that we have a religious policy in this country. I also imagine that after we get a distinction between state and church, it will be natural for the future Constitution to write something about freedom of religion and the state's responsibility for equality between religious and life-view societies, and that the state also has a responsibility to facilitate the individual and collective exercise of its religion in a good and proper way. I also imagine that after a distinction between the Church and the State, the state should be involved and should also facilitate financially so that this can be done in a good way. I also imagine that the Norwegian Church, like today, could in the future have certain tasks related to national holidays, etc. When we get to this distinction between state and church, it might be important to define the role the state should have in relation to having a religious policy. I understand, and I think it might make sense, that we do not get a majority for this proposal now, because a commission is at work, but I look forward to the day we get a distinction between state and church, which is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e359	The Christian People's Party wants the Norwegian Church itself to appoint its pros and bishops. This is a natural continuation of the reforms that have been going on for decades and that have increased the independence of the Church as a religious community. Reforms have been many, and the Church's appointment of its own priests has been among the most obvious. But why stop there? Bishop and prost are central positions in the Norwegian Church. Their task is also to be priests, that is, to be spiritual leaders. In the case of parish priest and some other performances, employment authority was transferred from the King of State to the Dioceses at kgl. Res. of 17 June 1988. It has since been repeated by Stortinget that the Church must have greater freedom and independence. A natural follow-up of this by the Christian People's Party is this constitutional proposal we are discussing today, to stress that the Norwegian Church is primarily a religious community. In its first remark in the position, an overall committee says that there has been an important starting point for ensuring the Norwegian Church increased freedom and independence. For the Christian People's Party, the consequence is a new order that primarily guarantees autonomy in spiritual matters. Then it is natural that those who are spiritual leaders are appointed by the Church itself. Prosters and bishops, of course, have a strong influence on doctrinal decisions in the Church. That is why this is part of the internal affairs of a religious society. The Church itself wants this. One can problematize what is the Church itself. For me, it's the church's own organs. For example, the Church meeting in November 2000 said that the appointment of bishops and prosthetics should be transferred to bodies based on church elections. The Council of Churches believes that the appointment of prosthetics can be delegated to a specific church body, without having any impact on the Constitution or the other state church system. Some claim that the King of the Council of State should continue to have the last words in the nominations of pros and bishops, in order to maintain breadth and transparency, as the representative Arnstad also suggested in his statement. This can be seen as a distrust of the Church as a religious community. Moreover, it is interesting to note through comments in the position that this proposal really has a majority behind it. But it is argued at the time of the introduction of the legislative amendment itself, then related to the work of the State-Church Commission. I agree with the representative for pay that then comes the actual debate on the church system itself. The Christian People's Party cannot see that the arguments for continuing the independence of the Church depend on the view of the Church. This can be agreed independently of the view of the Church of State. Both parties still want an inclusive people's church, and we have also adopted other reforms in the past. We see that the change in deleting the word «spiritual» in the Constitution § 21 and 22 will lead to the need for changes in the church law. But we believe that the amendment will not lead to the dissolution of the church system as such now. The problematisation with which the representative Wohnning came, I see is in relation to the whole of the Constitution. But I can't see that there's any contradiction between this and to make the Church independent. As a result, there can be no church councils. We believe that we can come back to this on later occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e379	Although it's starting to go out here a little bit now, I'm glad we have this debate, because I guess the reduced sample will notice some of the points of view that emerge here today. Sometimes today, the concept of democracy and breadth has been taken up several times. What is at stake is whether one wants a form of political-made democracy or a democracy created through the members of the church. If one uses the politically-created concept of democracy, as some people do, one ignores the peculiarities that, after all, exist at the Church as an organization – that it is a religious society that could have visions that differ from political values, goals and goals, by the fact that there are faith-based goals that are to be put into practice. It's true, though, that at the end of an election campaign, both of us are almost religious in terms of the belief in the excellence of our party program, but, after all, there's a difference between what you're going to put into life on these two questions, respectively. Some have also indicated that we might not have received Rosemarie Köhn when we got her, if we had had a distinction between state and church. I am so personally in the position that I have between myself felt the Church's vision and some lack of heart warmth when it comes to, for example. form of life. But despite the fact that I have had a very personal and pragmatic sense of what, for example. Rosemarie Köhn has thought about things and been created by evolution, in fact, I think it is fundamentally undemocratic towards a religious community by political means to try to influence what might be and feel like an inner issue. I also have such faith in the Church's own people that I believe they have the ability to reason through open debate and argumentation both in their own organisation and in the public and in the media's searchlight. The individual questions may take a little longer, but to give the Church back then I think I'm putting a content in the concept of democracy that fits in with the Church, after all, having a peculiarity that differs significantly from a political party and a political authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e388	I have some comments on Inge Wohnung's considerations about aspects of SV's proposals that have not been adequately illuminated through committee treatment or through our articles. Thus, wages could give their own interpretations of these aspects of the SV's proposal, and there are interpretations that I do not think should be contradicted. There is no anti-religiousness in SV's proposals, I think it is important to underline it. As a curiosity, I can mention that as far as I remember, a study a few years ago showed that SV came elsewhere after the Christian People's Party in the proportion of personal Christians among its members or voters – I don't remember what it was. I don't remember the details of it, and it's been a few years, so I don't think we're going to put too much emphasis on it, but it might be good to mention it in this context. There is a significant difference between what we see in France in publicly forbidding certain garments of a religious nature, and the Inte Wage refers to from the United States, where certain religious elements are woven into the rituals of the State, or for that matter written on the banknotes. I think otherwise there's a strange paradox in that very thing, given the implemented freedom of religion, at least formally and legally and constitutionally, as one has there. The SV's proposal does not represent the clearing of the public space for religious symbols, as we see in France. On the other hand, it is natural that the religious elements embedded in the national rituals must be changed and replaced by adopting a distinction between church and state. There's nothing more noble in it than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e399	This is a multiplicity of debate, which we also come back to in a good way in later crossroads. I'm not going to comment on so much of what has been said, but I have some problems with the democratic church concept and splitting it up, either in political democracy or more church democracy. For me, the democratic base of the Church of Norway means that many of us who would not otherwise have participated in church activity and church work do so, in fact, because we consider the basic work of the Norwegian Church, grassroots work, as important, and also as a democratic opportunity to participate – a link between church activity and community activity. It's that part of the population -- us -- that one might not reach if a set of sharp distinctions between state and church. But it was a little bit on the side. I took the word to clarify a couple of things related to the appointment of prosthetics and bishops. First of all, if a person takes Inge Wohnning's starting point in relation to the Basic Law's understanding of how a appoints pros and bishops, it is not reasonable to say that a political approach is trying to influence the Church's choice. In that case, no one would have done it. Then it would be that those of the state councils who represented the Church in government, appointed prosthetics and bishops. What the Central Party has said here, does not mean any distrust of the Church's sea, because if one chooses to see it in relation to the remuneration, the councils that are then also part of the Norwegian Church will be part of the Church's sea. At the end of the debate, I would just like to add to the salary statement the guidelines for the appointment of bishops in particular. In the position of the Church-State Communication in 1980-81, which underlies the subsequent Royal Resolutions on the appointment of bishops, the majority, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Centre say that ‘it must be appropriate to attribute the result of the vote’ — from the Kirken sjægl — ‘so great a weight that one of the three with the widest connotation is appointed’. That recital was then reflected in the rules on nomination for bishops laid down by the Royal Resolution of 1997. It says that the Council of Churches and the bishops are to express themselves on which of the three who have received the most votes is considered the most fit to be appointed. In connection with the specific matter of the appointment of Bishop Stålsett in Oslo, it was said from the Ministry of the Church that there were three candidates who had a church vote to be appointed bishop in Oslo. This means that in this case the guidelines were followed to point and point. And one of the three who had a church vote was Bishop Steelset, and the members of the Council of State appointed him bishop.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e416	I am pleased that the representative Holm took up my challenge. Of course, I did not mean to claim to represent SV in the interpretation of their own proposal. When I put in an interpretation, it was because SV had not done it himself, and because neither the committee in the setting had found it worth commenting on this, which, in my opinion, is a question that needs to be discussed independently of the relation state-church. What disappointed me a little bit, was that the content of Holm's answer really, if I understood it correctly, just assumed that for SV itself this is a sort of automatic, that if you lift the state church system, this other one follows by itself. I gave some reasons in my speech as to why I think this can't be right, because there are so many other historically interesting examples from our own part of the world and our own European-American tradition that prove the opposite, namely that there is no automatic relationship between the question of how to organize the state's relationship with religious communities or vice versa on the one hand, and the question of how to organize what is now used to be called civil religion, i.e. the rituals of society. There is no such automation, and therefore I think that if the SV will continue to make their proposal, they should be dismantled and presented separately, provided that there is no necessary link between the question of church order and the question of oath. So just a little comment on the question of the basis of the proposals in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox What was my main point was to emphasize that when you go to such a serious step as to change the Constitution, there is at least one thing that should be in place first, and that's a correct understanding of the basic law we have, because if you start to change the Constitution based on a misinterpretation of what the Constitution we have is based on, it can be a serious misguided result. I am not going to go into the interesting discussion about named bishops that we could or could not have got. It's very fascinating. However, among other things: Because I could be suspected of instability because of family relationships, I'm going to refrain from any comment on it, but just point to what's the constitutional, constitutional issue that you have to have a neat relationship to. And that's the question: how far can you move the obligations imposed by the Constitution on the King in dealing with church matters, delegate them to other bodies, before you get to a limit where the basic law itself becomes silent – that there is no longer any trace of content left. That's the basic problem. It is expressed in broad terms that the State governs the Church, or that the State can intervene in the internal affairs of religious communities. As far as I know Norwegian church history, it has actually happened for only one period, namely in the years 1940-1945. Then we had a very special government in this country that neither respected the Constitution nor other restrictions on constitutional democracy. In addition to that, I can see that there is no example that governments, or the Storing for that matter, have violated the spiritual substance of the Church. The closest thing you've ever been to it, I think it must be the example you had in the 1950s, when one of our then bishops, Kristian Schjelderup, had developed into a heated debate with Ole Hallesby. It triggered so much violent reactions to the church grass that the bishop found it necessary to write to the Royal Ministry of the Church and ask the ministry whether, with his statements – it was about such a hot topic as hell – he had been harmed to get beyond the Church's teaching base. The department did everything right bureaucratic. The matter was sent out to all the experts, theological faculties, all the bishops, and ordered a state law investigation from Professor Frede Castberg and published all of this in a White Paper. And then the government came to the conclusion that everyone with political experience would have taken for granted, that it was found that the bishop had not gone beyond the Church's teaching base. It ended with a minutes committee procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the day and a vote on the Odelsting in the course of the review of the Government Protocols. The only party in this hall at the time that the Storting wanted to take a real stand for hell – if there are real points of view in that context – was the Christian People's Party. There was a disappearing minority in the position of the protocol committee behind it, and fortunately, the Stortinget ended up with a decision, led in the pen by case-rapporteur Ole Bergesen, who concluded this – I quote from memory: One must assume that the question of man's eternal destiny lies outside the area where parliamentary majority decisions have some influence. I think the Storting may be familiar with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e435	It's interesting to listen to the representative's salary, and his knowledge is great in this area. However, I think that his argument in the last post just underscores the importance and the correctness of getting a state-church selection – the Gehünnes selection – simply because he underlines the need we have to go through and modernise the state-church relationship. Furthermore, I find it interesting that, in relation to the proposals for the appointment of bishops and prosthetics, the problems of the composition of the government are highlighted. Then I guess I also have to be able to point out that there is something that belongs in the picture, and that is just an argument that you need to have a broader review of the situation. At the same time, however, it does not take into account the fact that church organs have developed since then, among other things. with a church meeting, and we thus have representative church bodies that can take over functions. Nevertheless, the fundamental core of the state church system, which is not only linked to the appointment of clergy, is not being rocked. It's just one element. The problematisation that the representative has thus done about this only underlines the need for the state-church committee that we have received, and the further modernisation that one probably has to do here also in relation to our constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e444	No pay has had the word twice and is given the opportunity to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e447	It was almost to clarify not an obvious misunderstanding, but a possible misunderstanding. I had the impression that Lyngstad understood me there that I argued against the need for a total review of the church system. I actually argued the opposite, namely that there is a need for that. Therefore, you cannot pick individual elements and change them without providing a complete review. If you're going to follow the reality of both the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party's proposals, it follows, in my opinion, with urgent necessity, that you have to disassemble lex Mowinckel, what is called the Church Council, and probably also the King's duty of confession, simply because this no longer has any meaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e454	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See page 1581]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e470	So now the big deal is going to be dealing with Carl's proposals. In Hagen and Fridtjof Frank Gundersen on the Constitution that one third of the members of the Storting may require referendums in cases with certain exceptions. Option A implies that the result shall be binding on the Stortinget, Option B that there shall be advisory, and Option C shall be that the right to initiate a referendum is added to 5, 10 or 15 pst. by the persons entitled to vote. All parties to the Committee, except the Party of Advancement, reject the proposals. There is no doubt that referenda can strengthen democracy and express the will of the people where it is in spite of the majority of the population, as it has been in the matter of EU membership. Therefore, both the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party believe that it is desirable to use advisory referendums on several important issues. Nor is there any doubt that one of the greatest democratic challenges is to bring about a lively debate between the elected people and the people. There is a debate that Stortinget has to take and has the opportunity to take when discussing the final report of the Power Investigation. In addition, SV believes that one of the most important challenges for a lively debate and for strengthening democracy is to shift power from the market to the people through elected bodies. We don't think the way to go is to adopt the proposals of the Progress Party, sail about, as I said, SV is positive that more proposals can be put to referendums. These options are based on the fact that the losing party in a case in the Stortinget can take a rematch in a referendum. The majority point to options A.1 and A.2, which involve binding referendums, having been the subject of a wide-ranging discussion in the past, both through a separate investigation in 1991 following a mandate from the Presidency and in the public inquiry of the Electoral Commission. The Electoral Commission concluded that binding referenda will raise a number of constitutional issues, including: in relation to the protection of minorities and that the issue needs to be further addressed if it is appropriate to re-examine the issue. Secondly, in my opinion, it is not appropriate to regulate referendums in the Constitution; rather, it should be done in special law, as it has been now. The main reason for going against both Option A and Option B is that referendums – had these proposals been adopted – will be used to take a rematch if a minority has lost in Stortinget. The Electoral Committee considered that there is no need to strengthen the Storting minority by using these kinds of referenda, pointing out that the Storting has generally strengthened its position in recent years. This is agreed by the majority, and I would like to add that the proposals do not restrict matters relating to our human rights obligations. As I said, options C.1, C.2 and C.3 mean that the right to initiate a referendum can be added to a certain percentage of the voting rights. The majority fully agree that the right of initiative for political matters outside parliamentary bodies can revitalise democracy. The same majority therefore welcomed the fact that provisions on citizens’ initiatives at local level should be incorporated into the municipal law, when the Odelstinget dealt with the electoral law. The majority point to the fact that national-level initiatives were not evaluated by the Electoral Commission. I can add that SV believes that the issue of citizens’ initiative should be addressed, but that provisions on it should be included in other legislation, for example. in the electoral law, not the Constitution. The major weakness of the proposals of the Progress Party on Option C is that they do not specify which issues should be covered by the right of initiative at national level. Matters relating to our international obligations through international conventions, such as human rights and minority protection, are not mentioned. The proposals must also be assessed in relation to minority protection, as expressed in paragraphs 93 and 112. I would also like to add that a proposal for a citizens' initiative should also include proposals on how to prevent commercial operators from getting into play. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection we read that the so-called initiative industry has grown both in the United States and Switzerland. Professional agencies collect signatures, advise on how to design proposals, and run active campaigns. Going forward in this way may give more jobs, but it is not said to revitalize the People's Government. It is a majority of the Committee that proposes that the proposals should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e501	Similar proposals as this have been dealt with here several times in the Chamber and have been rejected each time. As the rapporteur also pointed out, there have been wide-ranging discussions on this issue in a number of contexts, and at the latest in the context of the work of the Electoral Committee, which also rejects such a scheme as these proposals put forward. The elected bodies have been and will remain the very bearer of our democratic system. Thus, it is the elected and not the professionals or experts who are to be responsible for balancing different interests on behalf of the community in this country. Important decisions should therefore be channelled through Community bodies. However, it should now be said that sometimes situations arise where it is natural to ask the people for advice and where the political environment agrees on it, and such a question has proved to be our relationship with the EU several times, whether Norway should become a member of that organisation. It's quite logical to put a question to the people, so that the Fol can give advice. But these votes are supposed to be advisory. Ultimately, it must be the people's choice to make the final decisions and be responsible to the people for the decisions they have taken. This is the system under the Basic Law today, and as we see it, there's no reason to change this. The current proposals appear, in their wording, as if these referenda, whether binding or advisory, are to be practically a means of ensuring the minority of the Grand Duchy a rematch if the decision in this Chamber is contrary to them. We cannot see that this is a desirable solution, and we do not think that such a model should be supported. In relation to the different variants of Option C on the right of initiative, after which a certain proportion of the right to vote may require a matter decided by referendum, I would like to point out here that the Stortinget previously agreed to include a provision on the citizens' initiative in the municipal law. In our view, both the citizens' initiative and the referendums can be positive instruments in the local context. In addition to that, I will agree with what the rapporteur said in his statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e510	The proposal in Document No. 12:12 for 1999-2000, by Carl I. Hagen and Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, on the new § 82 of the Basic Law on binding, alternative advisory, referendum thus means introducing a new element in the Constitution with the foundation law of the referendum institute. The draft Constitution on options A.1 and A.2 in question has been examined and rejected no less than five times since the beginning of the 1980s. I find it difficult to see that there is a single new argument that the Stortinget – not at this time either – should base neither binding nor advisory referendums, rather on the contrary. I am pleased that a very broad majority in the Committee rejects the proposal put forward. It is only the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee who support the proposal. The fact that our current constitution has no provisions on referenda has not prevented the Storting from holding a referendum on some particularly important issues, and previous speakers have pointed out, among other things, that by various crossroads through history the Storing has decided to hold a referendum on some very important issues. The EU case. As the proposal is formulated by the proposers, if it were to be adopted, it would undermine the representative democracy of Norway, as we know it. In the case of referenda, it shall not be a right for the people to demand that certain matters be referred to a referendum, but a right for a minority in the United Kingdom to ask the people for advice in the case of proposals adopted, in the hope that this will lead to the adoption of the decision. Reconciliation requirements in controversial issues could be many and make it further difficult to ensure stable and comprehensive governance of the country. That, I think, is a rather important argument as to why this proposal should be rejected. As far as the Right is concerned, we insist that referendums should be restricted to purely exceptional cases and on particularly important issues. To that end, we do not need any constitutional changes, and the Right will therefore vote in favour of the proposed constitutions being rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e523	Let me first bring up the proposals that the Advance Party is in charge of in the vote, and which are identical to some of the alternative basic legislative proposals that I have been with the proposal. It is quite correct, as it has been said, that this has been dealt with repeatedly in the Storting, and I hope that it will be dealt with once every four years also in the future. We have, like other parties, clear positions – SV has had it with regard to the Church and the State and in the past with regard to the monarchy – and I think it makes sense to discuss some of the principal things once in each of the major periods. So the Progress Party has a somewhat different view of democracy, we want a more direct democracy than just representative democracy. We believe that the most democratic is where individual people, individual citizens, take their own decisions. In many areas, we are fully aware that decisions cannot be made on their own, that authority and power must be transferred to elected bodies, and then they are elected by their representatives. But in all elected bodies there will be priority issues that the people can decide for themselves by referendum. When these are individual things, we believe that it would make sense for a living democracy that people did not just get the choice every four years, whether it is local or national, to vote for a book of positions, called the party program, because then they have to vote for the whole book. They cannot vote for any of the elements of the Workers' Party's program, some in the Advance Party's program, some in the Christian People's Party program or some in the Right Program - they have to choose a big, big book of positions. It has also meant that many people don't want to participate in elections, because they have a little disagreement with all the parties, and to give their full support to a whole book, when there are perhaps some things they disagree with, they don't want to, and then they refuse to vote. Everyone is concerned about low participation in elections. Why don't you want to do something about it? Why not allow a more living democracy where the use of referendums is becoming more frequent? Direct democracy is much more perfect than indirect democracy, in our opinion. We see the best democracy in it as some on the left-hand side of politics contemptuously called market governance. But market governance is, of course, direct democracy, at least in terms of everything called consumer articles and the consumer market. When individual consumers decide, through their free choice, the range of goods in colonial shops or supermarkets and decide what is offered by services, and what survives by services, it is a democratic decision. Then we should also try to get more decisions taken today by elected bodies, out to the people so that they themselves could make the elections. Martin Engeset said that what we are proposing in the first two proposals is that a third of the Stortinget can take a rematch. That was a strange use of words. A rematch on things you've lost in Stortinget? No, but you can duck. So we look at the people as our superiors. Kjell Engebertsen said that in the end it must be the people's representatives who make the decision. We would rather say that ultimately it should be the people themselves who make the decision. The most democratic is when the people decide for themselves, and have not delegated their rights to decide for a representative. So there we have the diametrically opposite view, we don't see it so that the people's representatives are going to be the superior people, as the Kjell Engretsen obviously does, but it's going to be the other way around. That's why we have that vision. It's not about rematch, it's just an appeal. The legal system has just put in place the principle that every case can be appealed to a superior – not everyone, it should be if you have faith in it. I also want to mention to those who are not aware of it – I do not really remember if it is stated in the explanatory statement – that our proposal is identical to a Danish constitution. In Denmark, it has always been so that one third of the Folketing's representatives can appeal cases to the people for decision. It has very rarely been used. I think the last time was in 1952, when an agricultural case or a law case was filed. The third who appealed, lost it lightly, and they were punished at the next election. So you don't anchor in vain, if you walk around and think that there's a danger of that. As far as the right of initiative is concerned, I am pleased that the Stortinget has adopted some form of right of initiative. It doesn't go as far as we wanted, because we wanted it to go your way that there's a referendum to decide. But, as Mr Engebretsen said, it is a form of right of initiative for local democracy. If the principle of right of initiative is good for local democracy, I cannot see why it should not be good for national democracy. We've taken up the proposal that if 5 pst. by the population sign that a question should be decided by the people in a referendum, that should be a sensible way. The right of initiative has created very living democracies. Some people call it a single thing, and instead of seeing a whole thing, it's often a single thing. But I think there's commitment out there in the population whose opportunity is there. Now I think, after there has been some media coverage of the local right of initiative to re-open cases in local government, that it will be used quite a lot. It has also been added to the urban selection process in some cities. I think it's going to arouse commitment to what's going on in the city councils and local government. If the right of initiative were possible, some groups would also try to collect signatures to get a referendum. At a time when so many in this Chamber have expressed concern about lack of interest in politics, lack of interest in local and national elections and lack of participation in elections, there should be a much wider debate and a much more positive attitude towards possible pilot schemes with more direct democracy, and not just the indirect democracy that we have. It is quite right, as Mr Engeset said, that this referendum will undermine representative democracy. That's the point, because we want direct democracy where the voters decide for themselves. In other contexts, the Right has finally begun to become interested in this with freedom of choice, that the money follows the patient, the school student, the user, etc. I'm very happy about that. Martin Engeset says that there have been no new arguments, and that is why you should not do anything. And that's absolutely right, there's no new arguments, but I had hoped that someone had listened to the arguments that were there before, as the Right has shown great will in very many other areas. There is no new argument that the money should follow the student or the patient in relation to when we proposed it for the first time in 1985. Then the Right thought it was a hopeless proposal, for which we were ridiculed. Later on, the Right has simply changed its position. In this area, too, we had hoped to gain more understanding in order to support direct democracy, and that it would not be seen as an undermining of representative democracy, but as a strengthening of democracy as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e544	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e547	First I want to say that I don't think we're the general people, but the people have given us a mission that we're obliged to. When Carl I. Hagen says that this with low turnout is one of the things he wants to do with, that's the way it is, based on the experiences you have where referendums are used systematically and often, among other things. in Switzerland, that in the Swiss cantons is now – if I am properly oriented – the turnout down to 20 p.m. So it's not possible to involve people that way in elections. When you rarely have a referendum on major and important issues of principle, there will be great commitment, great participation, and the decisions taken by the people, even though they are advisory, will have such authority that the elected representatives follow them anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e556	I think Kjell Engebretsen misunderstood my lead score. My main point is that by having the right of initiative and a referendum on individual matters a little more frequently, people get an understanding of the benefits of participating in the political process. Now people have a kind of a sense of remorse. Many said after the last elections, at least after a while, that they had voted for both that and that party, but whatever they voted for was Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik. So a lot of people had an abstinence, and it kind of worked out not to do anything. I think a greater interest comes from the fact that taking initiatives is useful. That's what you're experiencing locally, and then you could do it nationally. I think it would get people more interested if participating in processes benefits. The tannery compares to Switzerland, which has a completely different hundred-year tradition. There is much greater participation when there are matters that people are concerned about. But in Switzerland, there is a lot more so that people don't have to ask the public about law in all sorts of areas, as one has to do in Norway, and there's also a big difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e565	It was interesting to hear Hagen's main posts, his reasons for his own proposal, for there he described in a quite revealing way how he and his party think, and how their behaviour is justified in everyday politics. So we heard how hard it is for the voters to choose the game, the whole book, as he described it. Think so much better it would be if you could choose a little bit here and there, on the top shelf, almost as in a political assorted land trade, without thought for the whole and the context! I think that was basically quite revealing, and that only confirms the picture that the Progress Party itself has given over a longer period of time. Otherwise, I think it's quite special to hear the touching care representative Hagen has for people the opportunity to be able to help decide. It's very special, when we have the history in memory of the party's fear of letting the voters go in relation to influencing the election of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e574	Yes, in many ways, what people do. They select different products in an assorted system. When you have weak arguments, it is quite classic to complain to the counterparty that it is not complete and consistent. It's really words without content. There are many political issues that can be dealt with in isolation. Criminal convictions in criminal matters are not related to a good deal of other things. There are questions that we have up there, that do not need an overall assessment or need to be seen in any context. Where we know we need to have a coherent and complete relationship, is in the state budget. Now, for example, we have experience. that, after the Workers' Party has concluded an agreement with the Government, they will have a rematch in the revised budget on an increasing number of issues. They waive responsibility for what happened during the budgetary procedure. We said at least openly last year that we did not agree on everything we had voted for, but we had other reasons. So I don't accept the arguments Martin Engeset uses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e584	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e587	The central party shares the majority’s reasons for the issue of binding referendum. Binding referenda could significantly distort representative democracy and, in any case, should be investigated in relation to the constitutional aspects before any further consideration can be given to it. The central party also agrees that the elected representation is the basis of our constitution. However, an advisory referendum has been used in several cases and is also recognised as an important corrigendum to representative democracy. In this sense, an advisory referendum is not about any kind of rematch, but rather about an opportunity to seek advice from the people on matters that are essential. In this way, the proposal of the Procedural Party No. Three interesting. We believe that it can reduce the threshold for triggering a referendum, which in turn can strengthen direct democracy and increase the likelihood of more issues being put to a referendum. At the same time, the 25 p.m. requirement in the proposal provides an increased incentive to actually use the voting rights, thereby stimulating the kind of advisory referendums that can be a legitimate response to representative democracy. In fact, the central party also believes that the idea of a minority anchor is positive. It can help to improve minority protection in representative democracy and to a greater extent force all parties to the Great Britain to align themselves with the majority population. As far as the right of initiative is concerned, there is a system now in place locally. On the part of the Central Party, we believe that it should be tested over time to see if it can also be an instrument to strengthen direct democracy in relation to the Storting. In view of this, proposal No will be accepted by the Central Party. 1 and 2 by the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, and we will vote in favour of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e600	The proposer Carl I. Hagen was concerned that his proposals would lead to a reduction in people's abstinence, and the people's abstinence from being able to participate and decide the framework for their own everyday lives must be taken seriously. But we believe that the main reason why people feel remorse over the political decision-making process is that there are several issues, major issues, that have now been removed from the elected bodies and transferred to other arenas, for example. to the market, to the internal boards, to undertakings, e.g. health enterprises, where people seem to have much less to say now than they had before when there was more political governance. I would also like to mention AS-certification, for example. in the case of the Post, as an example of people having the feeling that they have less to say in relation to the framework of their own everyday lives. Carl I. Hagen said – at least I got the impression – that the most elevated form of democracy is market governance. This means that you can control the size of your wallet, and it is not very democratic in the SV's opinion. So Carl I. Hagen made a particularly exciting comment, namely that people themselves should be able to participate and say something about priorities. It's an exciting thought. That is also why Porto Alegre and several other cities in Brazil, under the left-wing rule, have introduced the participatory budgeting system. I challenge the Progress Party to be involved in developing the way in which people are allowed to participate and prioritise. I think it was clear from my post that SV is also positive about the right of initiative scheme. That is also why I said that the right of initiative should be looked at more closely, but then included in, for example. election law, and not the Constitution. But the main reason why SV goes against this proposal, that is option C, is that, as I said, it has very serious weaknesses, including: that a non-restrictor can address matters and that one does not take into account our international obligations through international conventions. The proposals also need to be assessed in relation to minority protection, as it emerges and is expressed by the Constitution § 93 and 112, as I said, and also in relation to the fact that there are no limits to commercial operators, who have had huge work spaces in both the United States and Switzerland. The fact that commercial actors should be able to lay down the framework for the right of initiative does not seem to me to be very democratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e611	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1582]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e626	This draft constitution is presented by Kjell Magne Bondevik and Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, and it aims to introduce a separate provision into the Constitution for the Protection of Life and Human World. The proposal states that the protection of human life and personal freedom are such fundamental principles that they should be reflected in the Constitution, and the proposal is justified by the fact that a constitutional provision as it proposes will stress that fundamental respect for life and human dignity should continue to characterise our society. There is an overall committee that notes that the Norwegian values, with respect for life and human dignity, have been formulated in Norwegian legislation within the framework of the current Constitution. Norway has also, as the proposers write in their proposal, joined the World Declaration on Human Rights, where the right to life, freedom and personal security have been established. In addition, The European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, incorporated into the Human Rights Act of 21 May 1999. Provisions on the right to life are contained in both of these conventions. It is therefore clear, in the opinion of an overall committee, that a fundamental respect for life and human dignity applies and will apply to Norwegian society. With regard to our own view, I would say that both the Labour Party and the Advance Party find that there are good reasons to include a provision in the Basic Law in accordance with the proposed proposal, but also good reasons that speak against it. We note that the draft constitution itself will not result in any concrete change in the legal situation, since under the third paragraph it will be the ordinary law to ensure citizens' freedom, rights and legal protection in the areas referred to in the draft constitution. The current and future political discussions on the limitations and situations mentioned in the grounds for the proposal will therefore take place regardless of whether or not the Constitutional Law is incorporated into the Constitution. We have therefore come to the conclusion, after careful and thorough consideration, that when the draft constitution itself will not in itself lead to a concrete change in our legal system, the proposal should be rejected. I assume that the Christian People's Party, which maintains its proposal, will naturally justify its own position. It shall also apply to the others in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e639	I would like to make a few, brief comments, as I totally agree with what the case rapporteur said in his introduction here. The Labour Party is also of the opinion that this proposal does not in any way change the legal status of Norway if it is to be adopted. The reason why I asked for the floor is that from the point of view of the Workers' Party in this case, the protection of life and any fundamental law against it is contrary to the right to self-determined abortion. The reason I mention this is the SV's comment on this matter, to which the Workers' Party does not agree, precisely in view of the fact that this proposal would not change the legal status of Norway. If it had been passed, it would not have been contrary to the right to self-determined abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e648	I have to say that I think the representative, Mr. Engretsen, is a bit of a funny argument on the basis of the relationship between the constitution and the law in force. I think maybe the point he's making here is a little bit difficult to defend. At my discretion, the present draft constitution is totally contrary to the law in force in relation to self-determined abortion. This draft constitution is a repetition here in Stortinget. Of course, it is the full right of individual representatives and parties to propose amendments to the Constitution, even if it has been rejected in earlier periods. On the right, we note that this draft constitution deals with central human rights such as respect for life and human dignity, and that the purpose of the proposal is to stress that the fundamental respect for life and human dignity should continue to shape our society. Through the adoption by the Storting of the new Section 110(c) of the Basic Law on Human Rights, we believe that this consideration is adequately respected, and that it is therefore not natural to include in the Constitution a further emphasis on some of the central human rights. In the explanatory statement for the proposal, the proposers state that human life is inviolable from the beginning to the end, and that the right to life and physical integrity must cover the entire life span from the first beginning of conception to death. That's where we come up with the relationship to the applicable law relating to self-determined abortion. In my view, if Stortinget were to join this Constitutional Bill, the applicable law of self-determined abortion would immediately conflict with the Constitution. It may be some of the aims of promoting this Constitutional proposal. Now it's probably in most political parties, at least in many political parties, strongly divided opinions about abortion law. For my part, I think that a far worse accident could affect countries and people than that abortion legislation was changing something to give better protection of life. If a political majority wanted to change the law on this or another point, it would be more tidy, in my view, to do just that than first to amend the Constitution and then to find that the laws in force conflict with the Constitution. I would recommend that the Right-wing Representatives vote against the draft Constitution in Document No. 12:15.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e663	Several have underlined the importance of the inviolable human dignity for our society, including the right to life and physical integrity. SV supports these rights as fundamental to our society. Like the proposers, we would like to stress that Norway has acceded to a number of international conventions to protect human life, freedom and personal security. In the opinion of the SV, however, there is a contradiction embedded in this proposal. We do not think that the proposers have sufficiently taken over the contradiction between claiming that the right to life shall apply from the time of conception, while at the same time asserting each person's right to physical integrity. We record that the majority believe that the Constitutional Bill will not change the legal status, and I record Kjell Engebretsen's emphasis on the same. We would just as fully stress that the right to physical integrity, to determine its own body, does not seem to be well enough safeguarded in the proposal presented. For SV, this is the main reason why we cannot recommend Stortinget to approve it. I dare say that the most important struggle for physical integrity that has been conducted in Norway in the last 50 years has been the fight that resulted in the law of self-determined abortion. Proposals raise important ethical questions about the sorting society, bio- and genetic research, development of reproductive technologies, etc. These are questions that largely also concern SV. However, I cannot see that the proposed Constitutional Law will really bring us further into these difficult issues. The proposal under consideration affects not only the beginning of life but also its conclusion. It underlines the right to a natural death. I will join in the fear of the Christian People's Party representative when he writes that he is afraid that the generalization of active death aid can lead to the feeling that dying and seriously ill people are pressured to use such death aid, as they may feel that they are a burden to others by being alive. People in such a situation need clear assurance from society that they want to be taken care of, expressed through the services society is willing to provide. Just because the right to life and physical integrity are so crucial to the individual’s freedom and security, it is not appropriate for SV to go into a constitutional provision that may seem unclear as to each woman’s right to decide over her own body. SV will therefore vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e678	Respect for human life and human dignity is absolutely fundamental to our cultural heritage. It has a pretense of both legislative and ethical standards in Norway. The protection of human life and the value of the individual human being should be so strong in our society that it was only possible to overthrow this right in the Constitution. Man does not achieve this unique position and peculiarity by virtue of a particular equipment or as a result of achievements. No, man has given an innate fear because it is a human being. This view of man is the starting point for our attitude to a future ‘sorting society’. Still more advanced foetal diagnostics opens up to sort out fetuses with properties that do not like, e.g. Sorted by sex or by sorting out disability. Without a law that specifically protects the germinal life, the danger is that qualitative assessments of human dignity are made. This is a development I want to warn against. Medical developments have also led to one facing difficult ethical considerations towards the end of life. What answers do we have when one of us asks for help to end our life? The doctor responsible for a patient in such a situation is often left standing with this responsibility. The Christian People's Party wants a society that has a constitution that clearly and uninvitedly secures life until natural death. All of us who have experienced one or more times a deathbed will know that that society has to settle down in such a situation is alleviating treatment. The aim of such a law is to emphasize that the fundamental respect for life and human dignity is to impress our society in the future as well. I am pleased with what is said by the Labour Party and the Progress Party in the comments, that there are actually good reasons to lead such a right into the Constitution. I don't agree that there are equally good reasons against it. I would like the Norwegian National Assembly to be able to support this as much as possible, regardless of the party, for the new Section 95(a) of the Constitution. I include the proposal from the Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e698	There are important issues addressed in this draft Constitution. It's a significant problem at the beginning of life. It is also a significant issue throughout the life cycle. In this context, it could perhaps be called the protection of life and dignity, no matter what life situation you have, no matter what requirement you should have for society to pose, no matter mental or physical problems. It is not least also an important issue in relation to what may arise from sketches in the closing phase of life. The debate on active death aid that we've had in the last few years is also an important part of it. There are divided opinions in the Centre Party as to whether a separate provision should be introduced into the Basic Law on the Protection of Life or whether this issue is adequately addressed through the existing provisions. In particular, Section 110(c) on human rights, which some of us believe is sufficient to take account of the intentions behind the proposal that lies here today. Therefore, some representatives of the Central Party in this matter will vote in favour of a separate provision on this issue, while other representatives will vote against the issue, on the grounds that it has been protected by the provisions of the Constitution already in force.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e705	The Constitution should not be amended in time and timeliness. Nor shall it regulate all aspects of society in detail. But in today's situation, human life itself is more vulnerable than for a long time. That is why it is important to give extra emphasis to the protection of life in the law that is over and guiding other laws. There's a growing tendency in society to rate something as fundamental as life itself. In many countries, you discuss whether you can end your life before you die a natural death. One thing is to give pain relief. One completely different thing is to take life. To the extent that economic factors enter into the assessment of the end of a human life, we are really on wild roads. Modern scientific methods make it possible today to influence the very creation. Researchers in many countries are pressuring to experiment with human genes and with already begun human lives. Such experiments may have totally unpredictable consequences. A special constitutional provision on the protection of life will also have implications for ordinary law in this field. As a value-conservative centre party with great loyalty to the Constitution, it is therefore natural for the Coastal Party to support the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted, on the protection of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e716	As a proposer, I am pleased that a joint committee so clearly expresses that fundamental respect for life and human dignity is still valid for Norwegian society. This is the main point of the draft constitution. In addition, it is important that we stop and take a debate on such important issues. With new medical and technological knowledge, we are constantly being challenged, from the beginning of life to the end of life. The Christian People's Party believes that the right to life is the most fundamental of all human rights. It's the very bearer of our view of value. Our culture is built on the fact that all people have the same value, regardless of integrity, age, gender, civil status and ethnic origin. The majority believe that the right to life is already incorporated into our laws because this right is part of the human rights enshrined in Section 110(c) of the Constitution. I think it's a little bit inconsistent. We know, for example. freedom of expression and freedom of religion are provided for both in the Constitution and in human rights. There is no one in this room who would have removed the paragraph on freedom of expression in the Constitution because it is also enshrined in human rights. As others have also mentioned, the right to work is also enshrined in the Constitution. Why shouldn't the right to life, which is so general, have its place in the Constitution? The Christian People's Party believes that this right is so fundamental that it should be expressed both in the Constitution and in human rights. I have understood that it is the phrase ‘from conception to natural death’ that is problematic for the majority of the committee. For me, a different definition is going to be difficult. How much value does a fetus have at all times? The limits are going to be hard to set, and I fear a gradation of human dignity based on certain qualities and characteristics. In Dagbladet on 18 December 2003, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, who is also one of the proposers, said: ‘The law of the day of abortion is not in accordance with the right to life, but I will not make the assumption that those who support our proposal must be against the law on abortion.’ I hope that many will support our proposal, although they do not agree with the Christian People's Party that we need a more restrictive abortion law. As a member of the Social Committee, I welcome the broad consensus there is on abortion prevention. Support is given to Amathea, formerly AAN, and the prevention guidance for young people is getting better and better. In the fall, a majority of policies facilitated a society where there is room for everyone. Then we were able to bridge various abortions and still agree on important value issues. By introducing the right to life into the Constitution, we would stress the fight against the sorting society even more strongly. I think it would have been more difficult to downgrade measures and rights for disabled people and their loved ones with such a right. The proposal also aims to give greater priority to care at the end of life. This is a small weight in the setting. Nevertheless, I feel confident that most people agree with the Christian People's Party that unwholesome sick and dying people need life help rather than death help. It must never be that people feel pressured to end their lives. The feeling of being at heart, experiencing pain, suffering and lack of hope can give signals that can be misunderstood. The task of society is to provide qualitatively good pain relief, care and community in the final phase of life. This priority has been agreed by the Stortinget. It's an important and correct signal, which is completely consistent with the Constitutional Bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e743	Constitutional proposals often have the effect of inviting two very different debates at the same time. One is the debate on the content of the wording proposed in the Constitution, and long, important and very interesting debates can be held on this matter. The second debate, to which it is automatically invited, is a debate on whether it is appropriate to enter such a provision in the Constitution and, where appropriate, what consequences it would have for the general legislation if it were to be done. I think it is important because this proposal affects the most fundamental of all rights. One might even say that it affects the right that is qualitatively different from all other rights, because it is the prerequisite for all the other rights. If a human being is deprived of the right to life, there are no other rights that are left behind or that are at all relevant. As you can see, there is no doubt that this is about the qualitatively most fundamental value base for a society. Therefore, it is twice as important to try to keep the two issues apart, so as to avoid the misconception that might otherwise easily occur, namely that if a majority in the Grand Duchy does not want to enter such a wording into the Constitution, it is because the same majority disagree with the content. It would be a fatal error ending, at my discretion. The representative Woie Duesund pointed out, on the issue of whether the right to life, by reference to human rights, is covered or not in our current constitution, that we have many wordings in our constitution that represent a double invasion, for example. freedom of expression. Yeah, that's right. But at the same time, I think it's a slightly misleading issue, because it ignores the fact that the Constitution is a historical document, which has been produced over a long time. No one would have thought today, given that the fathers of Eidsvoll had not written the freedom of expression into the Constitution, to suggest that we should introduce such a paragraph, for today it is self-evident. It wasn't that time. It is also covered by the general references to human rights. So I think you have to distinguish quite clearly historically here. The Constitution has become a historical development of society. You could ask the question this way: why didn't the fathers of Eidsvoll enter a paragraph of the kind that this proposal was? The answer to that is self-evident. They thought it so self-evident that they would have thought it completely pointless to write it in at all. Now, of course, we're living in a historical period where it's self-evident, and that's why the discussion is important and fundamental. The problem is that it is impossible to hold this debate in today’s Norway without falling into the debate on the legislation on abortion. It has historical reasons back to the 1960s/1970s, and it's now like this, based on the history we have behind us, that it's not possible to avoid the automatic connection of the debate. My opinion is that the Stortinget, which is a legislator at all times, is free to change all parts of Norwegian legislation, including the legislation on access to abortion, of course. This applies regardless of whether or not such a constitutional paragraph exists. It must also be emphasised that if there were to be a majority in the Grand Duchy for such a constitutional paragraph, there would not automatically be any amendment to any part of Norwegian legislation, nor would there be any law on abortion. It is a debate that the Stortinget itself must initiate and conclude by means of a concrete legislative decision. Nevertheless, my conclusion is that because there is so much confusion – that is the clear evidence of the committee setting – and there are so many different understandings of what is the possible consequence of entering this into the Constitution, I find that the most reasonable position is to vote against. Let me then add: The representative pointed to a special comment from SV in the committee setting that the Workers' Party does not agree with. But he forgot to point out the joint remark of the Workers' Party and the SV which, in my opinion, is the most perceptive in the whole committee position, and in this case the two parties even constitute the majority of the committee: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers’ Party and the Socialist Left, will stress that women’s statutory right to self-determined abortion is an important example of the right of all people to determine their own bodies, or, as it states in the proposal, the right to physical integrity.’ This is, at my discretion, a classic example of talking past each other, because here you put a content into the concept of ‘legal integrity’ which is quite different from what is in the proposal, and what is the inherited understanding of the term ‘legal integrity’. Legal integrity does not mean, at my discretion, the right to rule over their own bodies, because that right is, by nature, restricted in any way, and no parliamentary decision can do much from or to. In addition, physical integrity is historically an expression designed to safeguard the individual's right to protection from infringement, from assault on his body. It is fully possible to provide ethically useful justification for our current legislation on pregnancy interruptions. But the reasons given in the SV and the Workers' Party's joint comment are absolutely impossible, simply because it makes a claim that is contrary to the simplest biological facts. It is also possible to invite a parliamentary assembly to decide that the earth is flat. But the nature of the earth does not change by such a decision. The fact that a fetus is an independent potential body that is not an integral part of the woman's body cannot be rocked by political decisions. I thought we had come a little further. I can very well understand that at the stage when you fought the law on the right to self-determined abortion, you served yourself with a rhetorical language, because it is often done in politics of this kind. But I honestly thought that in 2004 we had come a little further in terms of elementary biological knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e767	First, I would like to express my pleasure at the seriousness of this debate and at the fact that the vote also calls for so much respect for the issues raised by the proposers. It is good that the National Assembly can discuss, as the representative Salaries said, the most fundamental of all rights, the right to life, which is the authority for all trials, in such a way as this has been done today. The representatives of Aukan and Woie Duesund have presented their arguments to the Christian People's Party, and I join them. But I would like to make some comments on some aspects of the debate. The representative's salary argues very well for the most basic of all dishes. But it's not going to be quite as principle when you get to the Constitution, the history of the Constitution and the development of the Constitution. It is also possible to make a comment that perhaps the right to life was so self-evident to the fathers of Eidsvoll that there was no reason at all to say anything about it, for no one saw it so that it could be a question that man would stand up to judgments over the right to life. So to the reasoning that one must look it only from the historical point of view, and that one would not have come to introduce the paragraph on freedom of speech today, for that is of course. Yes, the right to work should also be true. It's been inserted not too long ago in the Constitution. Thus, in important areas, there is still an assessment of what belongs to home there. In my and Christian People's Party's view, it is a regrettable conclusion that one so strongly emphasizes the most fundamental of all rights, but nevertheless concludes that there is no reason to lead the most fundamental of all rights into the Constitution. Of course, I respect the fact that one here comes to different positions, but I'm sorry. And I'll also talk about it as the representative of Wage when it comes to the remark of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. I would also like to express my pleasure at parts of the post of the SV representative, who share many of the concerns expressed in the comments of the proposers. But then one came to realize that the most fundamental care of man's integrity was abortion, because it was woman's body it was about. I am also surprised that this can be found in a big paper in 2004 and that it is said here in the Chamber. For there is evidence for all the world that there is a borderline phase in which there is still a history of abortion, and where it is in the vicinity of, and sometimes across the border of existence. That it can be defined as a woman's body must be fundamentally wrong. For the Christian People's Party, what is in the proposal is important, and for us, it is also important that we would like to have another law on abortion, abortion. But today, we're dealing with a proposal that's about something far more, that's about all the phases of life. We hope that the majority of those who conclude that this is an important issue in the law will vote for the proposal, even if one will draw different conclusions at another stage, by discussing another law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e783	Ever since the father of play, Hippocrates, and with the Christian cultural heritage as the basis, our Western world has a common ethical tradition based on respect for life and human dignity. This one is present by virtue of being a human being, and not by reason of what one has earned. The 1948 UN Declaration of Human Rights also confirms this view. The right to life is laid down in Article 3. The right to life is the most fundamental and a prerequisite for all other rights. According to a Christian view of man, this right applies throughout life, from conception to natural death. Human dignity is inviolable, and everyone has the same value. It can't be graduated. For all people is created differently, and diversity is a value and also a resource. But it's society's responsibility to guarantee the right to life. That is why the draft constitution is so important. Promises create attitudes, and we want to create attitudes that promote respect for life. This is fundamental, yes, in fact, this is why I am a politician today. Because when I began to take an interest in politics in the 1970s, I just met the debate on the right to life. I met women my own age who highlighted the unborn life as part of the woman's body. Therefore, the woman herself had to decide whether or not to continue this life, determine her own body, they said at the time. As others have also mentioned in the debate before, I am surprised that you can read the same arguments in the position you met in the 1970s. The comments of the Workers' Party and the SV on this make the right to life an abortion matter. I agree with the representative's salary that I thought we had come further today. I'll take an example. When, in the 1970s, I gave birth to a son who, in addition to having a different sex than myself, also had a different type of blood, it showed that he was something other than a part of my body. He was and is still something for himself, an individual of his own. The UN Declaration of Human Rights came into the wake of the Nuremberg process after World War II, where the human rights that were understood were new. The Declaration sets out human rights in the context of, and evaluates as, the custodian of, human dignity. The recognition of man's inherent dignity is the basis of freedom, justice and peace. The European Convention also mentions the right of every human being to life. Then why can't we take it into our own constitution? We have rights on our own because we're human beings, based entirely on natural law. Now I understood the representative's salary so that he wanted to go back to the story and the owners, who are looking at us from behind here, and that they would not have introduced this into the Constitution, because it was so obvious. We have added, as we have heard, other rights to the Constitution, for example. the right to a good environment. Why not, then, the right to a human life? Life is threatened from so many sides, not least from our consumer culture. As medical and technological developments take place, new ethical issues arise. Our culture, which is based on the Christian view of man, assumes that all human beings have the same value, because we are created in God's image. Marie Aakre gets the Life Protection Prize one of the next days. She has worked with patients in the final phase of life for a long time, and she says it this way: ‘We should reintroduce the concept of natural death and death throughout our culture. Modern medical technology and the denial of suffering and death by our culture that natural parts of a human life have led to our no longer having the ability to see the natural human."Furthermore, being with seriously ill people and the close family through the death process gives a life competence that the majority of our society lacks. While health care has also been inadequate and often misguided, insight into life processes near the limit of life has convinced us of the need to maintain respect for life as the governing norm in this work. Health professionals have an ethical duty to protect their lives. Active death support as a health service violates the respect for this brand, and is unimaginable. This is a limit we must never exceed." That is why I believe that the right to life must also govern this area, and therefore I hope that more than the representatives of the Christian People's Party can vote in favour of this draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e811	The representative Scarbøvik says that SV and the Workers' Party make the issue of the right to life a matter of self-determined abortion. So we're not going to do that. The Labour Party for its part rejected it quite clearly, and I refer to my previous post here today, where I said that this proposal, if adopted, will not change the legal status of Norway. We are absolutely convinced that in a trial in the Supreme Court between this draft constitution and existing legislation on the right to self-determination, it would be possible for them not to stand in conflict. So we're going to accept this because we think it's unnecessary. We agree with the Wages' reasoning on how the Constitution should work. So to another post from the same salary that I don't agree with, where we got a lecture in biology. Now I don't know much about biology, but what's in our note, and which you almost got confused about could stand in a position in 2004, is the following reasoning: When a woman gets pregnant and doesn't want to carry out the birth, but wants to stop the pregnancy and do it before the prescribed deadline, and if society for its part refuses her this interruption, it's our opinion that it's an attack on her body. Then you can discuss the understanding of the concept of integrity. But we're allowed the opportunity to put our interpretation into this, and that's what underpins our thinking, our understanding and our reasoning about this remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e820	The right to life is the most fundamental of human rights, and, as the representative innge Wohnung stressed, without this right, it is actually absurd to talk about other human rights. Only when a liver, it's interesting to demand freedom of expression and trust, dishes that are naturally grounded – it should just be lacking – in Norway. For the founding fathers, it was important to give firm basic and important dishes. Why, then, isn't the right to life so far grounded? This is probably because, as many people have pointed out, it was obvious and undisputable at that time. Today it is no longer like this. Active death aid is alarmingly practiced in land on the continent, where even children are left to such a solution. There are good reasons to build as strong a protection against a patient dropout as possible in this assembly. A proposal for active death help was also made as a private bill in this room in the previous period, but fortunately it was rejected by a large majority. I don't have to be a fortune-seeker to assume that that challenge comes back. Therefore, it is disappointing that no party other than the Christian People's Party and the Coastal Party is willing to legislate on the fundamental human rights, namely the right to life. I hope that many individual representatives on such a background will support the proposal. So of course we in the Christian People's Party believe that today's abortion law does not give the unborn child the right to life necessary. The Christian People's Party is crystal clear that man is unique and worthy of protection, and that the right to life must have right of way. Because after concept, it's only time, nutrition and a good environment to make the child see the sun and be one of us, become a member of the great human family. I mean, if you don't have human dignity like a wonderful little baby in your mother's stomach, you can hardly have it later. No one evolves into a human being. You are a human from which you are created. The Christian People's Party will fight for life to be inviolable, and we will treat the child in the stomach as the child on the arm. It has a simple right to life and human dignity. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party knows that our proposal would not change the abortion practice if it was agreed today. It first took a couple more to abolish the abortion law. The representative Kjell Engebertsen is right about that. But it would protect the human dignity where the right to life in the future can be threatened – whether it's a deferred grandmother or it's bio-/research that challenges ethics. Therefore, it is expedient to establish the right to life in the Constitution right now, and therefore I am completely disunity in Inge Wohnning's conclusion, in spite of a good speech. I thought it was sad if the great majority ignored this ability to strike a ring about the right to life, about the weakest and about human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e831	The course of the debate confirms what I said in my previous speech, that Constitutional proposals very often invite to two very different debates at the same time, and that it does not always serve the clarity of the content of what is being discussed. My dilemma with regard to the course of the debate is that I agree with the premises of the proposers and the conclusion of the committee by the majority. I share most of the premises expressed by speakers for the Christian People's Party, but I do not share the conclusion that there is something to be achieved by voting in favour of the proposal. I share the position of the SV and the Labour Party on the conclusion, the proposal, but I strongly disagree with their premises. Let me first bring with me a little depth of the question of what is a sensible practice in the matter of legislating things. The representative Scarbøvik referred to the example of the right to work, which Stortinget grounded a few decades ago. This is an interesting example, because in my opinion it is an example of warning rather than an example of follow-up. I think we were at the time in an atmosphere wave where the Stortinget was about to write in all the good wishes in the Constitution. We have a proposal of this kind also today on the right to housing, which is of exactly the same kind. I don't think it was a reasonable basic law practice on the part of Storting, because the cost of the purchase by going that way is that the word ‘right’ itself becomes more and more contentless. And that's not a desirable development. If one says ‘right’ or ‘right’, it must not only be possible to say what the content of the right is, but it must also be possible for the legislator to enforce it reasonably. Otherwise, the legislator is driving both himself and the citizens behind the light, because it appears that people are granted a right that is in practice impossible to enforce. That is why, in my opinion, it is an example of warning and not an example of follow-up. Now I do not believe that this proposal is inherent in the fact that it is about good wishes in general about a good life for all people. It's of a much more fundamental nature. But I think the course of the debate shows that there is so much difference in the content of relation to the ability of society to enforce the right, that it in itself suggests that it would create more confusion than clarity if the Storting were at present to enter a formulation of this kind into the Constitution. Finally, just a small line to the representative of the Engretsen. Biology is not my profession either, but I think it's true not to say that neither 7-year-old, 3-year-old or 4-year-old school is needed to keep track of things as simple as this. I understand the representative’s thinking, and I can follow it a little bit on the way, but I don’t understand that he believes that the expression ‘determine over his own body’ really hits that idea. It expresses a completely different way of thinking. If you were to pursue that idea – I understood that the Engretsen here really means talking about the current abortion law, which sets a qualitative distinction between the development up to the 12th week of pregnancy and the development after the 12th week of pregnancy – you would be forced to draw it, at my discretion, completely meaningless consequence that until the 12th week of pregnancy a fetus is part of the mother's body, but from the 12th week of pregnancy it is no longer part of the mother's body. And I'm going to assume that the representative of Engretsen doesn't need any post-graduate education in biology to realize that that's an absurd position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e844	It's a good idea to make reasonable reasoning so that legislators can give people a law for which there's no basis, given that one can't be accurate enough. It may well be that, in relation to a fundamental important thing for a person like having a job, it is not easy to practice a precise piece of legislation. At the same time, we know that the Government is currently dealing with legislation in relation to freedom of expression. Freedom of expression are some of us if is an important human right, which also exists in the Constitution, but I think the Stortinget will also discuss the content of the law on freedom of expression. So the fact that the Storing is not necessarily completely unanimous at all points is not an argument that one should not include it in the laws. As far as I'm concerned, the right to a proper environment in recent years has been enshrined in the Constitution. And we know that the Storting is almost consistent when it applies to how far one should go in the precautionary principle in relation to that right. Nevertheless, as far as I am concerned, an almost total amount of money voted for this, but here I am going to take a rest, because I have not been able to check it before the debate, and therefore I am going to take a rest. I must say that the one who has today provided the strongest argument for the proposal from the Christian People's Party is the representative Inge Wohnning. Unfortunately, however, the good argument that the representative has led the wage has not convinced him himself. I'm sorry, of course, but I'm always grateful for good arguments anyway. Then I hope that argument has convinced many others in the Chamber that it is right to vote in favour of the Constitutional Bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e851	In the case of SV's and the Workers' Party's joint comment, I will join Kjell Engebretsen's considerations on what is written there, and not elaborate on it further. Then I register that several representatives have responded that the relationship with the legislation on abortion is withdrawn from the SVs and the Workers' Party. This is precisely the point of the proposal. It's one of the moments mentioned. Reference is made to issues related to abortion. It's like this, among other things. assists in creating uncertainty, which means that SV will not accept this proposal. Others, with a different starting point, have also pointed out that there should be no proposals that would create such uncertainty about the relationship with this. So I want to repeat that rationale.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e858	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1582]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e874	The proposal by Karin Andersen, on behalf of SV, to give the right to housing a place in the Constitution is among others. the reason why this will help to build up and strengthen the Norwegian welfare society and protect individuals from being without housing. The majority of the committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, indicate that the issue is addressed in the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which is incorporated into the Norwegian Law. In Grundlova § 110c, the human rights in this area are taken care of. The majority believe that housing policy is home to political priorities in relation to the state budget. The majority also indicate that there is a broad consensus on implementing a housing policy that gives everyone a chance to get their own housing, although there are different views on which means to be used. I recommend this option.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e887	That housing is an indispensable good and fundamentally important to any human being, everyone agrees. We still have considerable challenges to give the thousands of homeless people in the country a life worthy of them. This theme needs to be addressed for the future, so that those who lack the most elementary of all, thank you over the head, not just become a discussion theme, but that we get the situation solved. This should be possible in a country such as Norway, which is rich, small and relatively transparent. That discussion I am sure that the Municipal Committee and others will take it into account in a broad and broad way – to put it this way – and discuss most of the possible arguments. The question here today, however, is whether or not we should establish a right of residence and to what extent a decision on such a right would have any effect, which should be the starting point for any proposal to be adopted. Although the Right has full respect for the intention and not least for the good will behind Karin Andersen's constitution, I am unfortunately afraid that the only thing it serves and works as is a pleasant and good New Year's wish. The only heads that are going to roll are probably the heads it costs to print out the decision that might be made. The question we are going to address today is whether this type of right belongs to the Constitution, whether this type of paragraph will have any effect at all, which should be the main point if one is to extend an already-enclosed foundation law. The Constitution is now a historical document, it is a legal source and a symbol bearer. There are already similar individual paragraphs that are in the same street as the proposal we are dealing with now. To the extent that you want to extend the Constitution even more, as I see it, it should preferably be done through a constitutional audit, which is a little bit wider. Whether or not to have such a constitutional audit is a controversial issue. We have come no further than that we have a debate for especially interested people if we are going to have a debate at all. The starting point should in any case be, as the Right sees it, that the country's constitution is reserved to be what it is supposed to be, a norm of premise which provides first and foremost rules on which state powers we should have, how the relationship between them should be, how they should be recruited, and how to ensure that citizens are protected against abuse by the State, such as. the principle of legality in the Constitution. It's, as I said, almost impossible not to have sympathy for such a suggestion, but besides that this might possibly have a certain symbolic value over a shorter period of time, and being a kind of greeting home, I'm afraid the effect is roughly equal to zero if it's adopted. The Constitution does not have as many legal effects as it once had, of course, but there is no argument for diluting the Constitution further. A Memorandum of Understanding of this type will under no circumstances serve as something which could in practice be invoked as a kind of legal argument before any court. We all agree in this room that a housing policy should be implemented that allows us to establish our own place of residence, and we should all work considerably harder to ensure that it is. But using the Basic Law as a kind of political symposium, as we don't quite rarely do when we adopt program statements, I think it's a siding. Against this background, I would recommend the Right-wing Group to reject the proposal in Document No. 12:19.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e902	This proposal has some of the same in itself as the previous proposal we are considering. I have a great deal of understanding of the content of the proposal. The debate will take place on: Is it correct, appropriate and necessary to include such a provision in the Constitution? Nor will the legal status of Norway change with this proposal. Then there's an open question about whether it's right to include it in the Constitution. There is a broad consensus that society has a responsibility to ensure its citizens a satisfactory dwelling as far as practicable. This right is governed by the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and is part of the Norwegian Law through the Law on Human Rights. We believe that as far as the law can take care of this, it is done in Norway. What this proposal and a number of other proposals show is that we should have a discussion about what kind of constitution we really want. The term «right of», as formulated in the Constitution, may subsequently lose its meaning if all good purposes are to be incorporated into the Constitution in this way. This means that the proposal to set up a Constitutional Commission, which we did not get in agreement with, until those degrees seem to have its merits, and we should again, I think, look at the possibility of having a proper review of our Constitution – how we are going to use it in the future, and what distribution we are going to have between the general law and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e911	Like a large majority of the Committee, the Progress Party is also of the opinion that it is not necessary and not appropriate to legislate on the right to housing as a separate provision. It is a large majority in the Committee that agrees. However, I feel the need to make some comments about it, so no one should fall for the temptation to make it in such a way as to go against such a constitutional proposal, means that one also goes against the intentions of the proposal, because of course the Progress Party also supports that everyone should, and should, have a satisfactory place to live. It's very important in a country like Norway, with the climate we have here. There are two reasons why we have come to the conclusion that this should not be grounded. It is primarily because Norway has incorporated into our UN conventions that guarantee human rights. It is thus fundamental in Norway that human rights should apply. And as we interpret this, it's in that everyone should have a satisfactory place to live. The other thing that's also a very important point is that you shouldn't change the Constitution in time and time. There are a lot of people who have been involved in several of the constitutional proposals that we have had up here today, and I think that this is particularly relevant in this case. It is true that, if you wish, in a number of areas of policy that are pursued in all areas that may be perceived as particularly important, you can propose to include this in the Constitution. It is quite possible to propose it, but if you were to do so in any case, you would eventually find yourself in a situation where the Constitution is completely watered down. In view of this, the Progress Party will not support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e927	I get first thanks for all the sympathy with which SV's proposal is overwhelming from all the previous speakers, and I have no reason to doubt that. I understand from the discussion about the Constitutional Bill in the previous case that if this were to be adopted, it would be an example of the Inge Wohnung thought was an example of deterrence – if it were the words that were used. I want to use my post to try to justify why this is not just an example of putting all the good purposes into the Constitution, as Kjell Engretsen put it, but that there is a reason to include this. The proposal to legislate on the right to housing has two sides. First of all, it is the duty of the State to guarantee the citizens fundamental material rights, that is to say, all the good purposes of it. For example, as several have pointed out, the obligations of the State under the Constitution to ensure a clean environment for all. Most closely related to the proposal we are now considering, is perhaps pointing to the right to work, which, like any statutory right to housing, is about the responsibility of the State to ensure a fundamental social benefit for its citizens. As others have also pointed out, it is indisputable that housing is an indispensable asset in Norway. For obvious reasons, those who lack housing will lack the prerequisites to function equally in society. In the absence of housing, there will be no equal benefits to society's efforts in key areas such as health, care and school, and it will also be very difficult to maintain an employment relationship. This is so essential that, in the light of the SV, the right to housing must be granted in the same way as the other substantive rights protected by the Constitution, rights to ensure the individual ability to function as an equivalent citizen. In the same way as the lack of housing hampers the individual’s ability to have a job and to benefit from other social welfare systems, it will prevent him from taking an equivalent part in the democratic processes to be ensured by the Constitution. In addition to the material side, and so what makes this not just a proposal in the range of all good purposes, a constitutional right to housing has an important democratic aspect. The Constitution shall ensure democratic rights as well as fundamental substantive rights. When we take human rights into account in other countries, we tend to put greater emphasis on political rights than on material ones. While – rightly – we react to violations of political rights, we seem to accept much easier material rights being violated. The fact that material human rights are violated, we know that there are too large groups in the Third World. However, it is undeniable that lack of social rights may render the democratic rights that may exist worthless in practice. Where larger or smaller groups lack basic social protection, the same groups are often unable to avail themselves of their democratic rights. There are a number of formal democracies where, for social reasons, large parts of the population are unable to participate in democracy and give it real substance. Now, of course, it is not my claim that Norway can be compared with such countries, but the principles are the same. A fundamental social basis is required for democracy to function. The Constitution shall protect important principles, regardless of the current historical and social situation in which we are located. I will not fail to point out that this is not a mere theory either. For thousands of homeless people, there are the most real and painful issues. And this is something the state can do with. Because even though the state, unlike some decades ago, seems to be less concerned about it, it is such that the state can facilitate ensuring all the right to housing. So I'm going to say that that's not how Inge Wohnung said that you're eroding the concept of right because it's practically impossible to fulfill it. Now several people point out that this right is guaranteed in human rights, and that this relationship is thereby indirectly protected in the Constitution, and that is, of course, true. As was also stated in the previous case, there are other rights guaranteed by the Constitution. At least I think to record that there is no marked consequence in how the parties use that argument – soon it will be used one way, soon it will be used the other. For the SV part, it is not that point that we do not want to take the provision on the protection of life into the Constitution, but other matters in the nature of the proposal itself. Of course, I agree with what Inge Wohnung says, that a lot of the provisions of the Constitution must be understood from the history and origin of the Constitution, that there are provisions that – when one has to explain why they are there and not elsewhere in our system – have to do with the history of the Constitution. But I would argue, in any case, that regardless of that, the Constitution should contain some of the very central issues that are crucial to the interests of both society and individuals. SV believes that the right to housing belongs to these circumstances. With that reason, I would like to mention the SV's proposal for a new Section 110d of the Constitution, option A. I recommend that the proposal be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e964	The representative Christian Holm has taken up the suggestion he referred to. If the President remembers correctly, the representative used Wage in the debate during the previous case the expression ‘example of warning’ and not the expression ‘example of deterrence’. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1582]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e983	After the Riksrevision gave its report, there have been both revelations and a debate about how many art objects are not well preserved. The debate shows that the Riksrevision's findings relate not only to the museums covered by this report but also to large parts of cultural life. The Court of Auditors has examined the situation at five State museums. Two of them are responsible for the Minister of Culture and the Church, and the other three are responsible for the Minister of Education. This applies to the University Museums of Oslo and Bergen. These are both natural and cultural historical museums. Let me say – before I go into the setting – that these museums, together with the other museums in the country, are institutions responsible for and responsible for researching, collecting, preserving and exhibiting objects and evidence of natural, cultural and art history development. These are social institutions that need to be able to become key players in the knowledge nation of the future, and to provide future generations with opportunities for experience, learning and recognition of who they are, and the context in which they are involved. In other words, the museums should be important arenas, both for identity creation and for reorientation. Natural history museums must and must be able to play important roles — as species banks and as environmental archives — nationally and internationally. If we don't take care of these collections, we're failing our administrative responsibility in relation to biodiversity, because important material can be lost for later generations. We can't be clear enough about this. So what does the study show? Yes, the collections of the five museums are kept under conditions that do not provide sufficient protection against degrading factors – climate, light, biodegradation, lack of cleanness. The last is simply a result of building conditions, that every crick and hook is covered with collections. Degrading processes proceed slowly, and continued storage under such conditions, under which so many collections are stored, can cause even greater damage to objects. Nor are the museums well protected against theft. This is serious, both for museums where valuable art is kept, and not least for the natural and cultural historical collections. So environmental crime is a serious problem. It was last shown when the horn of a nostril in the museum in Bergen was actually stolen. You might think it's a little bit funny, but it's pretty serious. When the Family, Culture and Administration Committee dealt with the so-called ABM message – Archives, Library and Museum – last period, I was given the opportunity, as a member of the Committee, to see the conditions at many museums that were then part of the Ministry of Culture’s territory. What we saw was that too many museums were serious. Now I have expectations that there have been improvements in some areas, not least in the Ministry of Culture and the Church, because we have had a stepping-up plan in this area. What we discussed was not the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. And it has to be said very clearly that it's the Department of Education and the University Museums that get the worst out of this study. It underlines – as a majority of the Committee says – the need for greater attention to be paid to them. I visited some of the museums that belong to the University of Bergen and the University of Oslo, and I must say that the seriousness didn't go up for me until I had seen the collections. The state of these museums is very serious. The situation is very serious, not least because these museums are located in old buildings that restrict what can be done. It is buildings which are protected by sea. These are buildings for which the Ministry of Culture and the Church should have had partial responsibility. The Bergen Museum is for example: a beautiful monumental building from the outside, but it is not well preserved. That means you don't take care of your cultural heritage. But that also means that communication tasks get very harmful, and it should have something to say about the content, for example. in the cultural school bag. Then why do the university museums look so bad? So here are challenges for the Minister of Education on ongoing tapes, to which I challenge her to respond. First of all, I think – so it is my opinion – that the university museums are outside the department's core area and therefore also the area of competence. More people I've talked to say that the museums are being skewed between research and education. This has been the case for many years, both when the number of students increased, and now during the quality reform. So it's not like this Minister of Education is all of a sudden responsible for the sins of failure. There have been omissions over several years. Furthermore, when the museums now receive funding from the universities' basic allocation, the needs of the museums are easily ignored. So there's something that's gotten worse when university funding is now results-oriented. The National Auditor says it a little more carefully in his report: ‘The appropriations of the university museums are included in the general framework appropriations of each university, and it is thus up to each university to allocate scarce resources for the various purposes.’ So the museums fall between several chairs, and the funding mechanisms are obviously not good enough, as they are communicated. It's a big challenge. The majority, all except the Progress Party, have recorded that the Minister of Education, in the 2004 budget proposal, has indicated that an overall assessment of the need for initial investment and upgrades is to be carried out in the context of the examination of the report of the Ryssdal Committee. This majority says that it is natural in this context to consider designing a stepping-up plan for the construction and maintenance of the university museums. I'm very glad that there's a majority who say. However, the Minister of Education should have a maritime responsibility and a maritime opinion on the situation, both on the seriousness of what has been revealed and on what the Minister of Education will do with it, and also on whether it may be the result of the funding arrangements. Now, in the name of justice, it is said that both museums and universities have done a part within the narrow limits, and not least after the Riksaudition began to work on this report. Among other things, I can mention the museum plan for Bergen and the Revita Plan, i.e. a plan for protection and conservation at the Cultural History Museums at Tøen, under the University of Oslo. The majority of the Committee assumes that this work must continue. The majority of the committee also points out that during the examination of the ABM notification, Stortinget said that it is necessary to integrate the university museums more closely into the overall government museum policy. Furthermore, the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs stated that one department should be considered, for example: The Ministry of Culture must be given the overall responsibility of the museum and museum policy for the whole sector. In the light of the setting up of the ABM Communication and the report of the National Audit Office, the majority of the Committee calls for initiatives for better coordination and management of the museum sector. I'm asking the Minister of Culture to explain what she's going to do to fulfill this very thing. The party of progress has its own comment. I assume they'll prepare for it. In this note, they point out that an aggregate increase in the treatment of Document No. 8:98 for 2002-2003 favoured the rental of art and cultural objects. It seems obvious that the Progress Party believes that the need for funding with money to the museums can then be met. The majority say that the reason why the Storting was positive for just renting out art and cultural objects was that it could make the collections more accessible to even more people. The majority believe that conservation, security and dissemination require considerable competence and that lending and rental require a lot from both parties. The majority therefore believe that lending and renting cannot in any way solve the challenges facing the museums. Finally, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, the majority in the Committee, but not in this Chamber – we are painfully aware of this – require that questions about securing and preserving the collections and organizing the museum activities are addressed in depth in the context of the Storting's treatment of the cultural message. Both parties believe that a comprehensive plan should be drawn up for our management of the museums and collections. If I'm not mistaken, I also think that the committee that's going to deal with this agrees with exactly those considerations. On behalf of the SV, I would like to add that at least two aspects have to be dealt with there, namely interdepartmental coordination and REVITA measures, i.e. securing and preserving the collections at all museums. It is precisely this – these two aspects – that affect the attitude of the Committee. Finally, those with whom I have spoken in connection with the treatment of the Riksrevision report express the hope that the criticism that has emerged can lead to greater attention around the museums, and also that it can lead to real improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1030	I think we can all agree that one of the prerequisites for further development as a nation in almost every area, not just in the cultural field, is knowledge of the past. We need to both research and teach and make the past available so that the new population can take part in this and further develop it. Then the museums and activities in and around the museums become infinitely important, not just the state museums, not just those associated with universities, but together. What the National Audit Office's report shows with all its clarity is that there are different interests facing each other – it is the cultural policy that meets the economics. We have much greater ambitions about what we want to achieve in sectoral policy and cultural policy than what we have in economic terms – or at least our will – to put at our disposal in order to achieve these sectoral policy objectives. The worst thing about this is that it means that the museums and the external departments, according to cultural and sectoral policy objectives, facilitate an activity that is larger than the one you are able to master. Then we get, just like in cultural-historical buildings, which in many cases we actually protect to maturity, a case where we collect objects from the public and from the private to the slow destruction instead of taking care of them. That is why the Riksrevision report is so important to the Government, to the museums and also to the Stortinget, because the Stortinget must also take account of the different framework conditions that lie in expressing its desire for future developments. We have museums that are not state-owned, but are state-owned and municipal, and that have great ambitions to collect material, among other things. collect items from private storage, where this is stored in locks and operating buildings where it is actually such that it goes to ruin faster through this storage than it would have done if it remained in its original locations. However, I think the worst thing is that we collect more than we are able to register. It has something to do with the steering signals given by the different departments, and I am afraid that the steering signals given to the museums – these five that have been examined, but also a number of the others – are more sectoral policy than they are overall economic. I therefore believe that it must be a task for the ministers responsible for the museums to ensure that guidelines are drawn up so that you can complete the ambitions you have. We cannot in the future accept that we get what we can call a random collection that is not registered and that is not properly kept. When there's so much distance between the economic resources being made available, and what we actually feel we need, there's a question of prioritizing. Then there's a question of whether we might give priority in such a way that we take care of the most important thing and do it properly, and then we leave something else at risk. That discussion must take place from time to time, and one must be willing to carry out these priorities as well, not only want more resources in order to carry out all wishes. It is important that this national audit report also provides the basis for the future major messages that we are going to deal with in the different areas of the museum front where we have ambitions, but it is important that we recognise that we need to give priority in this area as well. It's sad that we have valuable items that are slowly, but surely, destroyed. I think we all have to try to help provide resources that make us better able to take care of this, but that we are all also willing to take on the priorities that make it possible for us to take care of the most important things, and rather let it be a little less important.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1043	The National Audit Office’s report points to a number of non-military issues that should characterise a cultural nation. Just as libraries are, museums are the collective memory of every civilized society. The storage conditions, according to this report, due to some very problematic building conditions, mean that this collective memory is gradually being erased. That the government has announced an overall assessment of the need for initial investment and upgrade, is joyous, but it will not be a second too early if we are to take the goal of offering something more than a hopefully satisfactory pension scheme for future generations. Some steps have already been taken, by the fact that extra funds have been earmarked for the protection and conservation of the university museums in the current year, although this is obviously far from enough. The right therefore shares the view that, in the context of the handling of the Ryssdal Committee’s report, it is considered that a stepping-up plan for the construction and maintenance of the university museums is being drawn up. In addition to reporting on inadequate maintenance, the National Audit Office concludes that all the museums had obvious challenges in implementing management improvements. For the right part, it is therefore e.g. Significantly, the 2004 allocation notes signal action to address the identified circumstances and to define adequate and clear targets and performance indicators. With regard to the issue of greater integration of the university museums in the state museum policy and the assessment of whether one department should be given the overall academic and political responsibility for the whole sector, there are a number of conflicting arguments. The arguments against this kind of integration may be that the university museums also conduct research interdisciplinaryly, where good interaction between the disciplines and where a transfer to the Ministry of Culture could weaken research. There may also be unclear political responsibilities between research and museum. On the other hand, it may involve a more comprehensive museum policy, the focus on the role of the university museums as mediators can be increased, and different museums can be seen together. These are just a few of the conflicting points of view that exist. The members of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party in the Committee have found no reason to conclude here on the basis of the fact that the matter we actually have to deal with today is the Riksrevision report on the preservation and preservation of the collections of five state museums, which says very little about this topic. In the context of this question, we have also developed a special comment that some people may think is a little bit beakty. We have found reason to include such a wording on our part as a reminder that the control committee should not develop into a kind of overarching policy design. Of course, it is tempting for most of us to swing a little when we have the opportunity to do so and are in the disciplines we feel strongly about, but there is not always a clear distinction between what can be described as governance control and what is simply outside the remit and mandate of the control committee. It might have been even more nearer to include this kind of special comment in relation to other issues we have had and have to deal with. The case rapporteur, the committee leader, has done a serious and thorough job here – that's what they say. That's why I don't intend to dwell on that particular topic any more, but I reserve it to be one of the themes we take for us when, in a short time, the Control Committee is going to hold a meeting on our forms of work, which came about on a proposal from the Right, to which the committee chair has agreed to be held in the near future. However, the Right also awaits the Council of State’s response to what steps can be taken in relation to the conditions identified in this national audit report.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1056	The President is a little confused as to whether drainage is a parliamentary exercise, but has nothing against being beaked, from this point on, with ‘anyone with his beak’.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1059	As most people probably agree, the Norwegian cultural heritage represents very great values, and it contributes to giving the nation and its inhabitants identity and sense of community. I believe that it is of course very important to preserve the collections that you own, in the best possible way. Much of the collections are managed and kept by public museums. In addition, of course, there are also private collections and private museums, but this is a matter of the relations of the public museums. It is very regrettable that the Riksrevision has revealed that there are major weaknesses in the public storage and management of these types of collections. There is a concrete reference to a lack of safety in relation to fire, a lack of safety in relation to theft, and to the fact that collections are also exposed to degrading factors that cause them to be destroyed in the long term. There are two reasons for this, as I read it. One is, of course, what you always encounter, the lack of financial resources. Another reason referred to is that the departments responsible for the various museums do not follow up the museums and provide technical advice on how to keep these things. The point of progress is of the opinion that the preservation and securing of the type of collections we are talking about here must be carried out in a sufficiently good manner. It is important for the generations of the future to enjoy it and knowledge of our common history and heritage. It is therefore important that governments, government and further down, allow individual museums to maintain these collections in a sufficiently good way. You can do this in two ways. One is – as the representative Kosmo well explained – from my point of view that a stronger priority may need to be given to what is to be put into action. I think that's absolutely crucial. The other thing that I think is absolutely crucial is that you have to make sure that you have the resources available and that they are sufficient. You can either do that by saying that you have to increase the frames on the side of the Storting, or you can try to be creative in relation to raising your income by other means. That is what we in the Progress Party have particularly raised in our particular comment, this by increasing revenue. In this context, we point out that the Stortinget has previously discussed a proposal in Document No. 8:98 for 2002-2003, which has also been adopted, giving the museums the opportunity to rent out and lend art items to organisations, businesses or individuals. It's, as I see it, a very positive scheme, which will have more positive effects. Point 1: As I said at the outset, of course you get the income from the museums. Point 2: You get these objects out to a much wider audience. And point 3: You get down the storage needs at the museums. I do not believe, of course, that this arrangement alone can help improve the conditions of the museums, but I think it can be a positive contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1072	I would like to assure the Committee and the Storting that this is a matter whose content we take very seriously. The review of the National Audit Office shows that the storage conditions at our museums, and in particular the museums it is now about, are not satisfactory. The deteriorations that can be observed have occurred over a long period of time. The current government has sought to do something for the museums, by providing an extra 10 million in 2002. EUR 19 million and in 2003 EUR 19 million. kr. The Ministry has also previously asked State Building to provide land for a new cultural historical museum in Bjørvika, and these are, of course, measures that can remedy the situation, but are probably not enough. As the Committee points out, it will require significant investment in the building mass to correct the deficiencies identified. Both the Storting and the Government, and perhaps future governments, will probably in the years that will have to take a great and joint responsibility to do something about the situation that has arisen. Unfortunately, it cannot be solved overnight, but we have to do it, and we have to do it at the same time as we see the building and maintenance needs of the university museums in conjunction with the other construction and maintenance needs in particular. The university and higher education sectors, as well as the state budget as a whole, of course. I have noted the Committee's emphasis on the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Research to ensure that the collections are maintained and secured in a proper manner, and that it is assumed that management improvements are made at all levels of the management chain from the department to the museum. In the past, several of the different units at the university museums were organised as part of institutions at different faculties. Several university museums have recently been reorganised and directly placed under university governance. I expect that this restructuring will lead to better organisation and management of the university museums, but that it could take some time before we see results from this. The government will not hesitate to await the effect of this reorganisation. We also aim to start work with universities to develop appropriate objectives and performance indicators for the university museums at all levels of the governance chain, from department to museum. A majority of the Committee also calls for better coordination of the museum sector. In this respect, I point out that ABM development was established on 1 January 2003, through a merger of the State Library Authority, the Norwegian Museum Development and the Rikslibrary Service. It was set up to promote a holistic approach to the cross-ministerial activities of archives, libraries and museums. I share the desire of the majority of the committee that the museum resources in Norway should be seen in context, and see ABM development as an important instrument for promoting such cooperation and development. Together with the Minister of Culture, I am therefore prepared to develop further contact with this body during the coming period. So a little comment on some direct questions from the representative Ågot Valle: She travelled, among other things. questions as to whether it could be the case with the university museums that they fell outside the department's core area and were squandered between research and education. I will not rule out that this may have been the case. In that case, I think it's the good side of this case, that it brings the museums and problems up there, and that it probably gives us all a reason for reflection as politicians. We must recognise that it is not this sort of thing that is normally at the top of our priority and popularity lists when there is a hectic political debate, either among politicians or in the media. In this sense, it is good that they come to light, because even though it may have been so that they have been skewed between research and education, it is certainly true that these museums are crucial both for research and for education if we are to maintain good quality. They are in many ways an integral part of our higher education system, our basic research institutions. It also pointed to the issue of the financial instrument, whether universities were simply referred to as allocating scarce resources. And of course, that's the way it works. It will well be able to do so for all levels of the management chain. But I would like to remind you that precisely in 2004, the higher education institutions in Norway are well funded, and the University of Oslo in particular has the best budgets of the time. That's what they say. They have gained a much greater degree of economic freedom through the quality reform, i.e.: greater opportunities for self-priority. This, in conjunction with the organisational change that is taking place, will give universities the opportunity to prioritise university museums in another way. I confirm that the Department is now in the process of following up the so-called Ryssdal Committee, which has been primarily a legislative committee and in the university and higher education sectors. We are now in the consultation phase, and we are planning to promote a cause for the Storting during the spring session, probably late in the spring session. I have noticed that it will then be relevant to discuss how the new funding mechanism could possibly affect the management of the museums, as well as a possible escalation plan. Personally, I also believe that organisational and administrative arrangements, which contribute to making the institutions responsible or not responsible, can also have a significant impact on the management of the university museums. We'll get back to this. At the end of the day, I have also noticed the comment of the Advance Party and the majority's comment on that remark on lending and rental. It is of course positive, but I believe it itself to be completely inadequate as a solution, as a main solution, or as the only solution to the problem we are discussing here today. It has to be seen just as one of many measures, and as an action in a work I think will be quite long-term.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1093	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1583]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1101	We then go to voting on case No. 1 to 6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1108	During the debate, Christian Holm put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:2 [[Church system and freedom of religion and freedom of life]] The President proposes that in this and the following cases we vote in the usual way using the voting apparatus. Modulf Increase – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1118	Explanation of vote of the representatives of the Christian People's Party: Case No. 1: For the vote, against the proposal Case No. 2: Against the vote, for own proposals and for the proposals of the Progress Party Case No. 3: For setting up, against the proposals Case No. 4: Against the vote, for the proposal Case No. 5: For the vote, against the proposal Case No. 6 For Configuration
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1135	This was not quite easy to follow, but it concerns only the representatives of the Christian People's Party. If they realized it, the problem would have been solved, I'd think.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1155	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1 by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 2, from Modulf Auchan on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Document No. 12:5 [[Removal of the right of government to appoint bishops and other ecclesiastical officials]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Document No. 12:4 [[spiritual officials]] The President has understood that the representatives of the Progress Party want to vote in favour of the proposal of the Christian People's Party and vice versa. Then one can theoretically get involved in a complex problem of whether it is subsidiary or not subsidiary, but the president will assume that there is no need to worry about anyone. If the two groups agree that they both want to vote that way, it has to be okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1208	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: Document No 12:12 [[1999 - 2000]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: Document No 12:12 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1228	Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Document No. 12:12 [[1999 - 2000]] Here, the Central Party has announced their support for the proposal, if I have understood correctly? - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1253	During the debate, Modulf Augan has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:15 [[Protection of life]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1276	During the debate, Christian Holm put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:19 [[Right of residence]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-01-15.ana.ud2083e1317	There is no record.
