ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e34	The President will propose the election of two presidents of Odelstingen’s meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e39	I have been given the honour of proposing Heidi Grande Røys and Åsa Elvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e44	Heidi Grande Røys and Åsa Elvik are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys and Åsa Elvik are unanimously elected as presidents of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e63	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group, and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e74	On 1 May, the EU and the EEA are expanding by 75 million new inhabitants. It presents the Norwegian labour market with significant challenges. Wages and salaries in the new Member States are between 10 and 15 p.m. of the Norwegian. If workers from the new Member States take work in Norway to lower pay and working conditions than we do in Norway, this will lead to loss of Norwegian jobs and pressure to weaken Norwegian pay and working conditions. Therefore, the Labour Party considered that there was a need for action. We would like to welcome our new partners in the EEA to Norway, but we reject a dumping of pay and working conditions that could lead to both the exploitation of workers from the new Member States and a weakening of welfare levels in Norway. In this case, the government has been characterised by a lack of power and power of action. However, I am pleased that we now, one week before the expansion of the labour market, reach full agreement on the main demands of the Labour Party. During a transitional period, workers from the new Member States shall be required to take up work only if their employment is full-time and they have pay and working conditions under the applicable Norwegian collective bargaining agreement or in the same place and field of occupation. At the same time, we must recall the general requirement of the Labour Environment Act to conclude a written employment contract in all employment conditions in Norway. The problem is that this only applies to workers who come to Norway individually and seek employment with the Norwegian employer. And that's not where the biggest challenge lies. The government itself, in a letter to the Stortinget on 8 March of this year, acknowledged that the main challenges are likely to arise «service provision by self-employed persons and posted workers on a service mission». At the same time, the Minister of Labour concluded that the Government will not take any action to counteract such developments before the expansion of the labour market on 1 May. The majority in the Grand Duchy today strongly criticises the government for this failure, this total inaction in relation to one of the main challenges facing the Norwegian labour market for a long time. The majority go so far as to say that this is ‘very bad’. The government seems to rest in the belief that if it just closes its eyes, nothing needs to happen. This is naive. On 2 May, Company A will closely monitor whether Company B is trying to cut costs by outsourcing Polish or Baltic companies that make work much cheaper because they pay their workers a fraction of what is pay levels in Norway. And if the competitor cuts costs this way, of course, Company A will have a pressure to do the same. This means that Norwegian jobs are lost, and that means that, in order to ensure jobs, Norwegian enterprises will press for a reduction in pay and working conditions in Norway. It's also quite possible that we'll see that a Norwegian company, let's call it Norwegian Construction, even establishes a business in Poland, let's call it the Polish Branch. When commissioned by Norwegian Construction, it then places substantial sub-contracting prices at the Polish Branch, which pays its employees according to Polish salary levels. The government doesn't lift a finger to avoid this. And the Progress Party is essentially letting it pass. We cannot use transitional arrangements for enterprises that bring their own employees to Norway, as we can for workers who are applying for employment in Norwegian enterprises. However, it is fully possible to apply general measures to the labour market which counteract such developments. Already at the turn of the year, a number of measures were proposed by the Labour Party. They have received broad support from the trade union movement, and some of them also from the business community. Together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, we are repeating them as legislative proposals here today. The party supports some, but unfortunately they do not support the most effective measures. Government parties do not support a single measure. However, the biggest challenge is if the Government and the Advance Party are serious about increasing access to temporary employment. In the government's draft budget for this year, the Government wrote: «The right to hire workers from establishments which have rental as their object is regulated in the same way as the right to temporarily hire. Therefore, when access to temporary employment is extended, access to hire of labour will also be extended accordingly.» Thus, the government announced increased access to temporary employment, but also opening up for increased use of contracted labour. Following the enlargement of the EU and the EEA on 1 May, rental agencies throughout the EEA region will have access to hire labour for Norwegian enterprises. We can then see an outstretched boom of enterprises in the new EEA countries that provide labour to Norwegian enterprises. With increased access to temporary employment and resulting increased access to the use of hired labour, the pressure on Norwegian jobs and against Norwegian pay and working conditions will increase further. Fortunately, through the budget agreement, the Labour Party stopped this development for the current year. But the Right Party and the Advance Party, with the support of the Christian People's Party, warn that they will move on to the Gaul. The result for workers in Norway is that the Progress Party and the Right by opening up the increased use of temporary employment and the increased use of the rental of employees represents Norwegian jobs and Norwegian salaries. It's the Workers' Party against! The Workers' Party, together with the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, proposes the introduction of an authorisation system and control of agencies providing and hiring out labour in Norway. The party of progress and the government say no! We propose that the State and the municipalities should be able to claim collective pay when public tenders are published. The party of progress and the government say no! We propose that employees of a company be able to protect themselves against unprofessional subcontractors by allowing trustees to have the right to discuss decisions on hire and sub-contracting, and that trustees be entitled to have access to the remuneration and working conditions of subcontractors. The party of progress and the government say no! We will impose on companies a responsibility to ensure against unprofessional subcontractors by making the main contractor responsible for subcontracting complying with tax rules and other legislation. The party of progress and the government say no! Then I am pleased that the Labour Party, through the proposals we have made to the Stortinget, has made some important changes: Labour supervision and other relevant supervisory authorities are increased in their powers of control and penalties for breaching activities – this is important. But it is also the government parties against it. Undertakings using workers without authorisation shall be fined and the profit shall be withdrawn. It is also the government parties against it. The obligation to report to the tax authorities on non-resident workers is extended. It's government parties against it. Opening is provided to require workers to show identity cards and for the presentation of crew lists by the main contractor. It is also the government parties against it. The Labour Party considers it important that the social partners consider the use of the publication of collective bargaining agreements. At the same time, we believe that the Labour Inspectorate should have extended powers for the enforcement of rules laid down in public collective agreements. Even those are government parties against it. The handling of this matter by the government and government parties has been characterised by a lack of power and power of action. I am pleased that the Workers' Party is getting an impact on some of its proposals. Most importantly, our proposal is that workers from the new Member States can only take up work if they are paid under Norwegian collective bargaining agreement. However, much further action is needed. I therefore recommend the measures that the Workers' Party is associated with the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party in today's vote. At the same time, let me, as the rapporteur, make two corrections on behalf of the Committee: The proposal to amend Section 50 of the third paragraph of the last sentence of the Foreign Affairs Act is withdrawn. The proposal for Decision A. II shall be replaced by the following: Paragraph 56a shall enter into force from the time the King decides. Paragraph 58a shall enter into force immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e155	The corrections for which the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has done well are registered. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e160	It is a grossly erroneous claim when Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen claims that the government does not raise a finger in relation to the challenges on the service market. But the Labour Party has its motives. The newspaper quoted on Wednesday the LO leader in Trondheim, Arne Byrkjeflot: ‘We do not regard the enlargement of the EU as a solidarity project.’ This was the reason why the LO has refused the European Movement to go on the 1st May train with the slogan ‘Solidarity in Europe – 10 new countries’. Now the Labour Party will not be fully responsible for the views of the LO, but it must be allowed to recall that both the LO and the Labour Party have for some decades focused on rhetoric about solidarity, especially with Eastern Europe. Even I think that enlargement represents one of the most important acts of solidarity of the post-war period, in which Western Europe contributes to lifting Eastern Europe out of the background of history. It's an economic lifting of dimensions, and it's a peace project. The reasons for the denial of previous views on solidarity by LO can, of course, be ignored. Is it the case that the Workers' Party also prioritises the special interests of the trade unions rather than solidarity with our poor neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e176	I assume that the representative Holmberg knows very well that, among other things, the Workers' Party. through appropriations made available in the Grand Duchy to prepare the new Member States for membership of the European Union and the EEA and to contribute to the allocation of regional actions in these areas. However, that is not what we are discussing. What we are discussing is whether the Government has shown some action and taken initiatives to ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions. The government has not shown that. The government was waiting until the end before it proposed to implement transitional arrangements, and after several parties in the Stortinget, among them the Workers' Party, had submitted proposals on it. The main thing, and I repeat it, is that the Government has not made a single proposal in relation to companies that bring their own employees to Norway. If the representative Holmberg believes that the government has put forward such proposals, I would ask her to explain it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e185	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen presented a wide range of demands and proposals presented by the Labour Party. It is true that the Progress Party supports some of them. However, the Progress Party supports inter alia: not the requirement to housing the non-residents. The Workers' Party will extend the regional protection ombudsman scheme. The provision and rental of labour shall be made difficult, and main contractors shall be responsible for the payment of taxes and charges by subcontractors. Builders' control responsibilities shall be tightened up and trustees shall be provided with access to pay and working conditions for subcontractors, etc. Does the Labour Party not see that everything you propose in sum will make it very heavy and costly for several Norwegian employers and Norwegian builders? At the same time, many of the broad proposals of the Workers' Party are likely to require the establishment of a comprehensive bureaucracy and control system. Will it really be worth the money, when you know that much of this is only about transitional arrangements that are temporary?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e194	I record that the representative Andersen illustrates the dilemma of the Progress Party, where on the one hand one has given the impression that there was a great deal of scepticism about the effects that might come in the Norwegian labour market as a result of increased labour migration, and on the other hand will not take the necessary measures to ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions. This is not about transitional arrangements. That's the whole point. There is no possibility of introducing transitional arrangements for enterprises bringing their own employees to Norway. It is therefore necessary to implement general labour market schemes. I cannot see that the proposals on which the Workers' Party is associated with the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party will lead to increased costs for businesses which are mainly operating as they are doing today. However, this will lead to increased control to prevent sub-contractors from being hired who operate unprofessionally, who do not comply with Norwegian legislation, who do not comply with Norwegian tax rules, and who have workers who do not have a residence permit. We believe that this should be right in relation to the challenges we face in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e201	We broadly agree with the Workers' Party. The Working Party, SV and the Center Party agree on all points of this setting in relation to the treatment of this ostrich proposition. But part of what we get here, we're very happy that we're able to get through for. However, I have one question for the Workers' Party, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, because some of what we are doing now is to stand together to get a proper assessment and a tightening in relation to hiring out labour. Then my question is: does the Workers' Party regret that they extended the possibility of hiring out labour when they were in government? The second is, is it that the working party in the opposition is wiser than the working party in the position? The last one is said with a little smile on your mouth.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e208	As the representative Holmås probably recalls, there were nuances in the view of the way in which both rentals and employment services were to be organised, previously also. The working party considers that the experience gained confirms the need to put in place an approval system, a registration system and a control system in relation to hire companies. There are today a very large number of companies that do. Among other things, we have During the consultations we have had in the Committee, the business community has received relatively strong statements about the operation of some of these companies. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to ensure the seriousness of the situation by having an authorisation system and to control the establishments. What I also chose to focus specifically on in my post is that to the extent that the Government, with the support of the Advance Party – wants to extend the use of temporary employment, it will also lead to increased use of labour rental. It could be one of the main challenges in terms of labour migration from the new Member States if such use of temporary employment were to be opened up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e216	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e219	Today’s debate is a follow-up to the examination by the Storting of Chapter 5 of the Communication on a well-functioning labour market. The enlargement of the EU and the EEA region on 1 May was duly discussed by Stortinget on 22 March. In that way, a lot of things have been said. Neither the Stoltenberg government nor our own government initially offered to introduce transitional arrangements in connection with enlargement. However, in the last few months, all EU countries have signalled their willingness to introduce different transitional arrangements. This is why Norway has also developed a cross-political consensus on this issue. In particular, the possibility of a pressure on welfare systems has been decisive. On the right, Norway is gradually in need of non-resident labour. We therefore welcome the fact that the enlargement of the EU and the EEA makes it possible to meet this need. We are not afraid that there will be an overwhelming influx of workers immediately after 1 May. In this respect, I can refer to a study by the European Commission of March this year that points to less than 1 pst. In the new EU countries, people are planning to emigrate. The International Organisation for Migration also rejects the fact that a wave of immigrants will flood Western Europe after enlargement. It is worth noting that even with the transitional rules adopted here today, it will be much easier for citizens from the new Member States to enter the Norwegian labour market after 1 May. The practice will be that the individual citizen can freely be in the country as a jobseeker for six months. However, when he/she has got a job, a message must be sent within one week of the date of the job. Such a reporting obligation as we adopt in Section 56(a) is not a transitional arrangement. There is a permanent arrangement that will apply to non-residents working here in the country. This is a consensus within the Committee. We also fully agree that, as a condition for a residence permit, there should be a requirement for approximate full-time work and regular pay. Without the requirement for full-time work, ten hours of work per day. give workers the right to full welfare schemes. When we demand full-time work and normal pay conditions, employees can take care of themselves and their families. This reduces the pressure on welfare systems. Several EU countries place emphasis on this very moment in their assessments. The possible pressure on welfare systems is worrying. We just need to realise that there are considerable differences in the level of well-being between the old and the new countries in the EU and the EEA. However, to impose housing requirements, as the left-hand position does, is to go too far. In our opinion, housing requirements are both unnecessary, unfair, bureaucratic and not feasible. Nor does it receive support from the Progress Party and, fortunately, is it being voted down. In the early stages of enlargement, the well-being gap may lead to an increase in the number of job-seekers. With transitional arrangements for a maximum period of seven years, we have better opportunities to follow developments. Gemini magazine says that in the case of transitional arrangements, it is primarily about buying time to prepare for a practical and mental situation in which we will have a much larger multicultural working community. We might need those years! For the 75 million inhabitants of the new Member States, enlargement of the EU and the EEA territory will mean new opportunities for economic and social progress on 1 May. One of the greatest advances for the citizens of the new Member States will be the personal freedom to travel and seek work, study and take up residence throughout the territory. The introduction of transitional arrangements in most of the old EU and EEA countries has led to both disappointment and irritation in the new Member States. The Deputy Director of the Department of European Affairs of the Ministry of Labour said that no study justifies the claims of a massive flow of workers. There is no doubt that the development of our country depends on a good balance between supply and demand for labour. We therefore say yes to labour immigration, but choose some transitional arrangements to lead the way. Should experience show that the transitional arrangements are unnecessary, it is a simple matter to abolish them. Today, we also adopt the possibility of implementing specific safeguards. These will enter into force if there is a serious imbalance in some professions or areas after enlargement. It is a good safety valve to have. As has been explained to a large extent by the Workers' Party, the transitional arrangements apply only to individuals applying for employment with Norwegian employers. So they do not apply to posted workers in the provision of services. EU and EEA legislation allows non-resident providers of services to Norwegian customers to bring their own labour force to carry out their mission. Unless the host Member State has legislation requiring service providers to comply with national minimum wages or generalised collective agreements, such posted workers may be remunerated in accordance with the conditions of the home Member State. In order to be quite specific, the wage and employment conditions of an employee of a company in Latvia are regulated by Latvian rules. Workers can only do the job they have come to Norway to do. They can only be here for as long as the job lasts. Nor do they have the right to Norwegian welfare benefits such as sick pay, daily allowance, child welfare, etc. This is how a single market should work. It's not a loophole, as the Evening Post has produced it. The right recognises that enlargement is a challenge for the Norwegian labour market. However, it must be a starting point that for employers it is both permissible and healthy to compete at prices within the boundaries of the Labour Environment Act. Social dumping shall be countered. We know that social dumping already exists today. There is black work. There are tax exemptions, and there are breaches of the Norwegian legal and contractual framework. That's not unknown to us. It's working in relation to it. We have rules in relation to that. We also know that coordination between different public authorities in Norway is not always optimal. The government is also working on that. Necessary measures are discussed in close cooperation with the social partners. With regard to the contribution from Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, I would like to stress that it is unnecessary to propose new changes, legal regulations, when we have rules that can work better. In defined areas, we have legislation, and different bodies have a responsibility. But, of course, everything can be done better, and both the government parties and the government are following this with Argus eyes. We recognise that there may be situations associated with EEA enlargement that require further instruments to be assessed. But social dumping measures that require legislative change, as I said, do not need to be implemented before enlargement. On 1 May the transitional arrangements shall apply. I think we should follow the situation and take it seriously, but we shouldn't be blackpainting it. I think the Workers' Party does that to a substantial extent. I would like to emphasise that the entire Committee asks the Government to come back to the Storting with a statement in the 2005 State Budget on the preliminary experience of social dumping resulting from the EU enlargement. We also ask the Government to present in the same document experiences related to the law on the publication of collective agreements based on the cases notified to the collective agreement. This law, which has existed for about ten years, has no experience with it. Now we'll see how it works. Government parties will then take seriously developments in the labour market and with the seriousness required at all times. However, I must say that I think the left opposition is both overdramatizing and creating unnecessary fear of the effects on the labour market. It is easy to see that there is an uninterrupted line going from the Joint Alliance to the LO and then to the Workers' Party. That's nothing new. However, it is new that both the SV and the Zenterpartie uncritically support the trade movement. Politically, there are more considerations to take. Many of the proposals will not have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e255	Should the representative record a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e258	I will, President. I take up the proposal that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e263	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e268	When 1 May becomes full opening for subcontracting to enterprises from Poland or the Baltic States to far less wages than pay levels in Norway, does the representative then believe that Norwegian enterprises are likely to place assignments with such enterprises, or is it not likely? Secondly, is it positive that Norwegian enterprises can award sub-contracting prices to enterprises in the new Member States, even if it could contribute to a downward pressure on earnings in Norway? If you don't, why don't you take action to deal with the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e275	Basically, we are not against competition in the labour market. We've always stressed that after May 1st, we're facing challenges. We're going to follow developments and look at it with the serious look that it deserves to be seen. But we have, as I said in my article today, opportunities to follow along and intervene. We have control options, and we've assigned responsibility. One should not overlook the fact that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen may be right that we have some effects of the expansion after 1 May, but this works with the Government, not least in the way that the Government cooperates with the parties in the business community. I will continue to maintain that I believe that the Workers' Party is over-dramatizing the situation on the labour market and is unsolidarian in relation to workers in Eastern Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e282	The representative, Kari Lise Holmberg, said that even with the restrictions on the free movement of workers from the new EU countries, it is much easier for them to take up work in Norway after 1 May. Of course, that's right. The Progress Party proposed to continue all current restrictions on labour immigration and entry from citizens of these new EU countries during the transitional period, but without any support for it. As far as the Progress Party can see, there is absolutely no welfare system with adequate safeguards against abuse. The representative, Holmberg, also said in his contribution that pressure on the welfare systems could be a problem. How great does the representative Holmberg consider the danger that Norwegian welfare systems could be abused to a greater extent in the context of this EU enlargement? If so, what does the representative Holmberg think one should do from the Norwegian side, if this turns out to be a big problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e291	You have to bring the story here. In principle, there was no desire at all from our government to introduce transitional arrangements, but developments in Europe have made us want to do so now, precisely in relation to welfare systems. It is clear that working 10 hours a week and then having full rights will most likely lead to a pressure on welfare systems, but as long as we have the transitional arrangements, this pressure will not be relevant. It is clear that in the future – and now we have time – we need to take the welfare system we have in the country up to debate. I think it's very important that we do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e296	I have a question for Kari Lise Holmberg that goes on the following: if an Estonian worker comes and works to half of the hourly wage that is common within e.g. the construction industry, and has nine weeks' work on which he/she works 72.5 hours per. week, which is what is proposed by the Labour Law Committee, will Kari Lise Holmberg consider it social dumping? If she doesn't want to count it as social dumping, because one stays within the current law, what is it for Kari Lise Holmberg to think that something is social dumping? In addition, I have a question that is related to contractors. We say that it is up to the social partners to do something in relation to the publication of collective agreements, but there is an opportunity for people to come here and work as self-employed workers and to determine for themselves what kind of pay conditions they want. We have no means to do this. Does Kari Lise Holmberg have any tools?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e303	No, we don't have any tools. Neither does the opposition, because we are talking about the four freedoms.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e309	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e312	I would like to begin by stressing that it is a major and important historical event for Europe when, on 1 May, the European Union is enlarged from 15 to 25 Member States. The inclusion of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Malta and Cyprus as members of the European Union represents a milestone in European integration. This is the largest enlargement of the EU ever. The pan-European project for political and economic cooperation through the European Union has once again produced results that strengthen and further develop European society in a positive direction. With this in mind, the European Union has once again manifested its important role as a pre-missive for the future of Europe. However, when this is said, despite the cause of enthusiasm for EU enlargement and the dynamic progress of the European integration process, it now poses some not insignificant challenges for the parties to the forthcoming EU enlargement. The reason for some concern about these challenges is that there are some significant economic, social and welfare differences between the new EU countries and the current EU countries, including the EEA country Norway. First and foremost, enlargement from 15 to 25 Member States represents a challenge in relation to national labour markets and welfare systems in the current EU/EEA countries. In this context, most EU countries have considered it necessary to introduce transitional arrangements to limit the free flow of workers from the new EU countries. Ideally, this is not a desirable situation. However, taking into account the realities, the application of transitional arrangements and safeguard measures relating to the national labour markets in the present EU countries seems to be absolutely necessary. Thus, the Treaty of Accession of the European Union and the EEA Enlargement Treaty allow Norway to restrict the free movement of workers from the new EU countries arriving in Norway, and Norway intends to introduce transitional rules. But the limitations of the transitional arrangements are therefore temporary and can be applied for a maximum of seven years. In addition, the transitional arrangements only apply to those workers who travel to Norway on their own to seek employment with Norwegian employers. For workers from Malta and Cyprus, transitional arrangements cannot be put in place. Nor do we Norwegians have the possibility to introduce transitional arrangements for the free movement of services from companies with addresses in the new EU countries. In other words, enterprises registered in the new EU countries are therefore free to send their employees on a job in Norway to ‘home salaries’ from 1 May. Conditions of employment and employment of employees employed, e.g. a Polish company, which provides services in Norway, is initially regulated in accordance with current Polish rules and not Norwegian ones. However, it should now be mentioned that non-resident workers on service missions in Norway are not entitled to Norwegian welfare benefits such as sick pay or unemployment benefit. But we can only see that services represent a great opening for circumvention of the transitional arrangements, which thus only apply to workers. We must be aware that the free movement of services can lead to some undermining of the transitional rules. This may lead to some pressure on Norwegian pay and working conditions in some industries. This is a little desirable! However, we have little to do with the fact that after the enlargement of the EU it will be very easy to obtain a Polish salary Poland. Neither the Labour Environment Act nor any other Norwegian legislation contains known provisions on minimum wages and salaries. One instrument we have to influence the pay conditions of non-resident workers performing services in Norway is the law on the publication of collective bargaining agreements. But this is a solution that is not very desirable, as I see it. Nevertheless, important parts of the Working Environment Act apply to all workers, both Norwegian and foreign, working in Norway. The provisions of the Working Environment Act in Cape. XII B concerning posted workers applies to foreign activities which send workers to Norway in connection with the provision of services. The Labour Environment Act provides that a number of important provisions on working and employment conditions apply to posted workers when they carry out service missions in Norway. The Working Environment Act provides, inter alia: requirements for employment contract, safety at work, working time, overtime and night work, etc. for posted workers. At the same time, the legal status of the Norwegian labour market is also such that both the holiday law, the employment law and the equality law apply to posted workers. These provisions of the Labour Environment Act on non-resident workers on service missions in Norway follow the EU Directive on posted workers in the context of the provision of services. Those provisions of the EU Council Directive are intended to promote fair competition and to combat social dumping in the EU and the EEA territory. What is important in this context is that the Labour Inspectorate has sufficient resources, for the Labour Inspectorate must be able to carry out a satisfactory check that the provisions of the Norwegian law applicable to posted workers from other countries on service missions in Norway are actually complied with in Norwegian jobs. Here we probably have a challenge. As mentioned, it is now clear that most of the present EU countries are implementing transitional rules to limit the free flow of labour from the new EU countries. In Norway, the Progress Party was among the first to point out the need by the Norwegian side to introduce transitional arrangements aimed at limiting the free flow of labour from the new EU countries. The Progress Party has long considered that free labour immigration to Norway from day 1 onwards, i.e. from 1 May onwards, problems could arise in the Norwegian labour market in the form of social dumping and could also lead to abuse of public Norwegian welfare services. The government long disagreed with the Progress Party in this view, but after almost all of the present EU countries have announced that they intend to introduce transitional arrangements, the Norwegian government also reversed in 12 hours. The Progress Party is pleased with that, but we are nevertheless concerned that the effect of the transitional arrangements can be minimal, because the provisions can easily be circumvented through the opening of the service, as I have explained earlier in my article. The big unanswered question at the moment is what the extent of labour immigration from the new EU countries will really be after enlargement. Estimates of the migration range show that around 5 pst. will move to today's EU country, of which approx. 3 pst. to Scandinavia. However, the progress party will demonstrate that this estimate is very uncertain and that without transitional arrangements the scope could likely be significantly greater. In short, the Progress Party wants to continue all current restrictions on labour immigration and entry from citizens of the new EU countries. For the Progress Party, it is important to prevent social dumping and to ensure that welfare systems are as far as possible against abuse by foreign workers during the transitional period in which the country continues to have sovereignty to maintain its own immigration policy vis-à-vis the new EU countries. The progressing party has registered that we did not get a pass for this strict line during the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 2003-2004. The Progress Party has therefore, in turn, opted for alternately to support the proposals of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the government parties that we regard as the most stringent, while not creating too much negative effects on Norwegian business. The Progress Party wants to help to strengthen the serious actors in Norwegian working life and protect our welfare system from abuse. Finally, the main concern of the Progress Party is that no welfare system appears to be guaranteed against abuse and welfare tourism, and that now is only the time to show what the consequences will be and what the extent will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e361	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e364	The Progress Party expresses concern for the development of the labour market and suggests that, through its proposals for transitional arrangements, the party had measures that were more focused on the challenges we face. However, the Progress Party has not yet joined any kind of action in this position on the main challenge, namely companies with their own employees in Norway. And if the Progress Party is concerned, why does the party not support the requirement to pay tariffs or equivalent in the case of State and municipal tenders? Why does the Progress Party want to allow for more use of temporary additions, which will actually be one of the main sources of increased labour migration from the new Member States? Why will the Progress Party further liberalise the possibility of hiring out employment, which will also be one of the main sources of increased labour migration from the new Member States?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e369	To the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen: First of all, the Progress Party wants a freest labour market with minimum regulation and minimum State intervention. With regard to the charging of tariffs in the case of public tenders, the Contracting Party has not chosen to support this proposal by the Workers' Party. We think it's going too far. It is an unfortunate proposal, which is too much of an intervention in the right to negotiate that must be between the social partners, including between the social dwellers. You have to have the freedom to negotiate your own agreements with regard to construction measures. I would also like to remind you that this is about temporary measures. It is not measures that are permanent, but temporary, and sooner or later we will see the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e374	Let me first say that I am happy that the Advance Party is with the government parties and ensures the most important thing in this matter. But at the same time, I would like to say that I am disappointed that the Progress Party ensures the left-hand side majority of possible new bureaucratic burdens. Unnecessary reporting requirements for business and the establishment of double work between public departments had not actually been expected from the Progress Party. Right wants a simpler Norway, without unnecessary bureaucratic burdens. I also thought that was the goal of the Advance Party. Have I been wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e381	I must remind the representative Kari Lise Holmberg from the Right that there are some major and significant economic, social and welfare differences between the ten new EU countries and the current EU countries and Norway. In such a situation, with so many distances, I think it's important that we do this over time, and that one then applies transitional arrangements, because I think it'll be difficult. I do not agree that we have chosen to impose any particularly heavy burdens on the business community. When we have supported proposals from the government parties and the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, we have tried to support proposals that are strict, but also to balance them against proposals that have a character that is not detrimental to Norwegian industry. That's what's been the primary starting point when we've made the choice we've made in supporting the suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e386	After all, the party agreed to continue today’s regime vis-à-vis third-country nationals as a transitional arrangement when the EEA enlargement enters into force. It is not a bomb that the Progress Party is against more Poles, Estonians and others who they call non-Western immigrants, but who may become Western immigrants now when they join the EU, being allowed to come to Norway and settle here. But what is highlighted as a circumvention of the transitional rules is therefore free movement of services. Then there is reason to ask: Is it true that Torbjørn Andersen and the Progress Party, when entering into the EEA Agreement in its time, did not realize that free movement of services led to more people entering service missions in Norway? And if they're concerned about lower wages and the pressure on wages in Norway, what is it that makes them opposed to publicising collective agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e391	It is correct, as the representative Holmås of SV says, that the biggest challenge, as we see in the Progress Party, is related to the free flow of services. What we treat and have the means to do is for workers who come to Norway and seek employment with Norwegian employers. But what I hope – that is why I believe that a five-seven-year transitional regime is so important – is that during this process, these five-seven years, we will have a harmonisation, that these ten, or at least eight, new EU countries will have a social and economic welfare development that will make the distance in five-seven years less than it is today. And then the problem itself gets considerably smaller. As I said earlier, it is also that we want a freest labour market, but we have seen that we need to apply transitional arrangements in a situation today where the differences in social, economic and welfare are as large as they are after all.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e398	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e401	In a letter dated 8 March 2004, the then State Council Victor Norman wrote about transitional arrangements that they can ‘contribute to preventing possible social dumping’. We agree with that. And then he goes on to write: ‘However, the main challenges here are likely to relate to the provision of services by self-employed persons’ — also called contractors, where appropriate — ‘and posted workers on service missions’. That is why what should be most perceptive in this matter, when we are now dealing with it, is that there are no proposals on the part of the Government to prepare the Norwegian labour market for self-employed workers, service providers and workers rented out by labour renting from the new Member States, in order to avoid social dumping or significant pressure on Norwegian pay and working conditions. We can deal with the free flow of labour with transitional arrangements, and we are doing that now. We are very pleased that a unanimous increase now says that you should have Norwegian pay and working conditions for people who come and seek work in Norway. When we extend the EEA Agreement and get the freedom to go to all other EEA countries to work there, we believe it is reasonable that all other people from the new EEA countries should also be allowed to come to Norway to work. But in order to avoid these people having to work under significantly lower pay and working conditions than the people in Norway do, and to avoid having a pressure on people who are already working in the most vulnerable sectors – such as the hotel and restaurant industries, the building industry, commerce and offices, where today the lowest level of organisation and the lowest wages in this country – we say that pay and working conditions should apply. I have to admit that I am very pleased that we have received a full majority and full support for this in Norway in the years to come. But then we come to the free flow of services and the right of establishment. And then I think that exactly that debate shows what the basic disagreement is about in this case. It is then that SV has a basic principle that work carried out in Norway should be carried out in accordance with Norwegian pay and working conditions. This is what the government says it agrees with. I've been in debates with state secretaries and state councils, all of whom say that they agree. But it's hard to believe this when the government adopts a wait and watch attitude in relation to people being able to come and work both as private service providers and as posted workers. It is difficult to believe that the Government really believes that work carried out in Norway is to be done under Norwegian wage and work conditions. When the debate on this flared up last summer, our main focus was that we just wanted to ensure that all the work done in Norway was carried out in accordance with Norwegian pay and working conditions. Then our focus was on social dumping, carried out by service providers and contractors in Norway, which comes as a result of EEA enlargement. That is what was our main focus in that debate. In addition, the debate on transitional arrangements came, which was confusing, among other things. due to a slightly low level of knowledge in the media area around the fact that there are differences in the transitional arrangements we are now adopting and the transitional arrangements for which the Progress Party agreed, which were aimed at continuing the exclusion of workers from the new EEA countries. But our focus was on social dumping of services, and therefore we promoted a separate Document No. Eight proposals. Later, the Workers' Party promoted one and the Center Party one, and we are together today on a whole range of proposals that have just social dumping as their main focus. These proposals do not end up with Kari Lise Holmberg, and she comes up to the pulpit and says, "We have no instruments, these are the four freedoms of the European Union. It's not that we don't have any tools, it's that we don't want to use the tools we have. We have more tools, and I'll present some of them. Some of what we get a majority for together with the Center Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party – and I am very happy that the Advance Party has joined this – is among other things. ensuring that the Labour Inspectorate is given tasks in relation to wages and salaries. The Labour Inspectorate will now have tasks in relation to the public tariff agreements, where the collective bargaining topic will take its first decision at the beginning of May, hopefully, or at least during May, which will be the first public tariff agreement we see. In relation to collective bargaining agreements, it is the case that SV was alone in calling on the trade union movement to make the trade movement more extensive and in larger geographical and sectoral areas necessary to make use of the publication of all or part of the collective bargaining agreements. I know that now, for example. in the construction industry there is a discussion on whether to generalise rigging regulations, working time rules and minimum wage provisions for all people working in the industry. On the one hand, we will not press down, as both the trade union movement and many others are afraid of, all the areas of the collective agreement for the entire working life, but we will ensure a decent minimum. This is something the social partners themselves do. We strongly encourage the social partners to look at this, and the trade union movement to take this into account in a proper way. But we understand that the decisions of the first collective bargaining body relating to the publication of collective bargaining agreements are awaited. This is an instrument that will apply to all posted workers. This will apply to all workers in Norway, but it will also apply to all posted workers. That's why it's not like Kari Lise Holmberg says, that we have no means, because these are the four freedoms of the European Union. So this is an instrument that we have and for which I believe we must take political responsibility. So, in the EEA enlargement process, we say that we want protection mechanisms to prevent the Norwegian labour market from going badly, because we think there are some values that need to be taken care of. But then we say that there is also a political question to what extent we want to regulate other parts of this that go under pay and working conditions for posted workers. The second part of the wages that we now have to regulate, and for which the Labour Inspectorate is responsible, is what is related to people who are here for short-term work, seasonal work, etc., and who come under the transitional arrangements that we are now adopting, and the special provisions that apply. We think that's very important. Again, Kari Lise Holmberg from the Right believes that this is bureaucracy. But – it is maintained – the oversight of the conditions given by the Labour Inspectorate is, of course, not a red tape, but an important task to ensure that the rules and what we have laid down here in the Norwegian economy are actually followed up. If we don't have any supervision of this – as UDI said, we don't have the ability to supervise this properly, we check it when we agree, but not later – it's clear that then it's necessary to do something. We have no more tools," says Kari Lise Holmberg, and everything leads to red tape. But one of the things that we're very happy to get through is, among other things, that when using non-residents, all employers are now required to report within two weeks to the tax office for foreign affairs in Stavanger. We know that this applies to the oil industry today, and that applies to the construction industry. But we know that, for example. in the hotel and restaurant sector in Oslo, once controls have been carried out, there has been a high level of black work, a high level of non-residents working and working black. It is clear that this is important to be done if we are to ensure that the tax money that is actually going to help finance the welfare society. Calling it red tape to get a better overview of who's working where, I can't understand is a reasonable argument from the right. Then what I think is a big challenge. In the construction industry in Denmark, 10,000 self-employed persons are established. The Landsorganisationen, or the trade unions in Denmark, estimates that more than half of these are people who work under normal pay and working conditions, i.e. as ordinary wage and salary earners, but who are contractors in the sense that they carry out normal pay but pay significantly lower than the average. They do not pay employers’ fees. They can offer lower hourly pay. They are not covered by public disclosure, e.g. the publication of collective bargaining agreements. Here we see that this is a challenge. But instead of sitting down and saying that these are the four freedoms, we can't do anything, we should look through the code and see if we, for example. may tighten the tax rules for tightening up, if necessary tightening the supervision to see if it is such that people who carry out normal wage work are more likely to be employed. But then we need an effort and not a wait-and-see attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e429	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e432	Here there was a lot of rolling, but I'm going to take a different starting point. Many social democrats and socialists have spoken up over the years about international solidarity, often focusing on our brothers and sisters in former Eastern Europe. This also applies to many of those present here in the hall. SV is now in favour of setting stricter requirements than the Government in order to obtain a work permit, for example. the individual shall not be able to choose the standard of residence itself. SV also goes in to give the trade union movement new rights. In Sweden, the environmental party and the left has opposed transitional arrangements precisely because of the desire for international solidarity. Doesn't SV feel a bit concerned about the difference between their sister parties? Or is red cooperation in Norwegian policy more important? It's a very big stick, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e441	No, I'm not very concerned. We have had good discussions both with our Swedish sister party, our Danish sister party and our Finnish sister party on precisely these questions and we have seen that here we have different assessments, and we have taken different positions. It is possible that in Sweden they believe it is likely – and that is what the left-wing party in Sweden says – that they are better able to combat social dumping in Sweden by opening up free immigration from the first day. It says the left hand side when we discuss this with them. In Norway, we feel that we have a slightly different starting point, among other things. because we have a slightly different government – we have a government that does not want to ensure that you have proper pay and working conditions, which do not ensure what is going on at work, and more such things, but which, on the contrary, seems to want to liberalise relative to temporary employment, in relation to, for example, employment. to expand the working time you can work, etc. That is precisely why I believe that we and the Swedes, for example, have come to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e450	Multiple people have not drawn in a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e453	EU enlargement towards east 1 May is a challenge for the EU and for Norway through the EEA Agreement. Both in this country and in Europe, otherwise, there is a busy impact on the labour market, on good and bad. The general image is still positive. There is a new region to raise, and we should not lose sight of it. Until recently, most EU countries wanted to open up the labour market fully from the time of enlargement. However, due to large differences in wage and welfare levels between the new and the current EU countries, many major instigations of workers from the new Member States, social dumping and abuse of welfare systems were feared. Most EU countries have therefore decided to have certain transitional arrangements. In such a situation my Christian People's Party, it is right that Norway also introduces transitional arrangements which require jobseekers from the new EU countries to manage themselves until they get a job, and they must get jobs within six months. In addition, there is a requirement for rest periods before work is started, for full-time work and for normal pay and working conditions. The paradox is that demographic reality, with an ageing wave and a low birth rate, means that, in the long term, we are dependent on labour immigration if service production is to be kept up. It is both old and new EU countries as well, even more so than us. The problem in the future may not be the struggle for work, but the struggle for workers. Job seekers from the new EU countries can therefore be a profit for our country. They will be able to contribute to increased productivity, development and progress. The Christian People's Party wants everyone who works and lives in Norway to have Norwegian pay and working conditions. It is therefore important to take action to prevent social dumping and welfare tourism. So we expect, as they do in the new EU countries, that the economy that will benefit from membership will benefit from the level of welfare that we have on the Western side, and that the level of wages and costs before the EU/EEA region will smooth out in the long term. A key point for the Christian People's Party is to put in place a most efficient, smooth and quick procedure to seek employment. Past experience of job seekers, such as door-to-door migration, from office to office, is unworthy and reasonable. Such examples of bureaucratic disclaimer and disclaimer of knowledge cannot be accepted. Our welfare arrangements may come under strong pressure after 1 May. There is a risk that Norwegian welfare schemes will be exported from Norway to low-cost countries. We share this challenge with our neighbouring countries. One must be on guard against abuse from the first day of the week. Should it be necessary, we can subsequently take action to prevent this. Unfortunately, the EEA Agreement does not allow the introduction of transitional arrangements for enterprises offering their services in the Norwegian market. The risk that these workers will have conditions that are far from Norwegian is great. Such providers also challenge Norwegian enterprises. Norway already has a problem with a salary level such as: is 30 pst. above Sweden's and Denmark's, and sky high above the countries in our neighbourhoods, e.g. in the Baltic States. With this level of costs, there is a high risk that parts of Norwegian industry will be uncompetitive on price. There are major challenges to policy-makers, businesses and employee organisations – EU enlargement or not. Against this background, it is gratifying that the Government has warned that it will closely monitor developments and, if necessary, come back with measures if necessary. But in some cases, I feel that the opposition is painting the developmental possibilities too much. We have had an EEA area with a low-cost country for a long time, without having enabled the visions expressed by the opposition. I am confident that we will also be able to deal with the new situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e482	In the past, the Christian People's Party, together with the Workers' Party, opposed the fact that Norwegian working life would have a large part of temporary employment. But in this case, as in very many other cases, the Christian People's Party has changed its position. When will the Christian People's Party get rid of the latest demands for rental companies and hire of labour? The Labour Party believes that this can lead to organised short-term imports of low-paid labour in a wide range of industries that will go beyond vulnerable groups here in the country. Does the representative Gedrem agree with this, or does it not concern the Christian People's Party that we already have a high level of unemployment and that many fall outside the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e489	In the 1990s, the Christian People's Party opposed the Workers' Party's proposal to tighten up temporary admission rules, and I do not feel that what is Government's intention now is to break with the Christian People's Party stands for or wants to. How the Storting will adjust to any new proposals for temporary additions will be looked at. The possible impact this may have on labour that will enter Norway, I actually don't have much fear of it. I feel, as I said in my main post, that the opposition comes up with the situation, dramatizes it, and brings out the horror picture. I think we should deal with a situation that is not dramatically new. For ten years we have had countries in the EEA with a much lower wage level than we have in Norway, without such a result.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e494	So it hasn't been my or anyone's intention to draw a scare image. So if it's a scare picture we're drawing, then it's the government's own words that we use when we describe reality, that the greatest challenges are likely to relate to the provision of services for self-employed and posted workers on service missions. So here it is that the Christian People's Party and the Government do not promote a single proposal to do anything, because we have to wait and see. This means that proposals are being made in relation to transitional arrangements, because that is what you consider to be the least important and least challenging, while leaving it up to you to make proposals in the area where the Government itself says that the main challenges are. Can the representative of the Christian People's Party tell me what is so incredibly logical about such a course of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e501	The Christian People's Party admits that after May 1st, we are going into a situation that is somewhat uncertain. This is why we have stressed that the Government has a policy to follow. If such situations arise as one has described here in the debate today, with too much pressure on pre-Norwegian employment schemes, the Government will make adequate proposals to prevent undesirable developments. My point is that I'm overestimated that we won't have the negative effects that the opposition has described here today. If we look over the fridge, on the left hand side, there's a pretty similar hold that the Christian People's Party has here in the hall. They're waiting in relation to the situation. They want to welcome the guests, and they say that this situation should be able to be resolved in layers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e509	No more lines have been requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e512	Eight countries of former Eastern Europe signed the Accession Treaty with the EU countries in April 2003, i.e. for about A year ago. At the same time, there is evidence that the current restrictions on access to labour immigration from these countries would be eliminated. As known to the EU/EEA countries, the agreement allows for transitional rules of up to seven years duration. Nevertheless, the Government was passive and failed to propose such transitional rules. Here, it was apparently suggested that the free market forces should be available. The Central Party and the Advance Party promoted the requirement for transitional arrangements at an early stage, but the Government remained passive until it was found that the vast majority of EU countries would adopt transitional rules in some form. The extension shall take effect on 1 May. In my view, one has to be able to determine that we in this country have actually made a difference. It must also be allowed to say that the current legislative proposal bears a certain degree of urgency. In my opinion, it is quite unique that a proposal to regulate such complicated matters has been out for only one week. The more detailed rules must be in the form of regulations. This regulation will have to be adopted immediately and presumably without any special possibility of consultation. It is an old experience that the greater the urgency, the greater the risk of not reaching the optimal solutions. There have been people from these countries who have taken up work, especially seasonal work, in our country in the past, and this is probably also the case this year. But it is critical, as I see it, that one has still not formally put in place the legislation that will meet a situation that will be a fact of a week. Companies and individuals required to set up after that receive legal short notice in relation to putting these rules into service. That is why, in my view, there is no particular reason to be impressed by the process that led to the bill. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that all parties are now in favour of rules and restrictions in some form. The centre party is behind the majority proposal from the committee and will vote in favour of the proposal here when we get that far. We also agree with the adjustments announced by the rapporteur in his statement. The central party considers that there is reason to call for Norwegian public welfare schemes. It is important to ensure that the rights of workers and the rules of the labour market are not undermined. A process that unilaterally breaks down Norwegian social systems can hardly be called solidarity. I am asking for respect for the fact that this position has actually been reached by the Centre regardless of what the LO or other professional organisations may think. It is therefore wrong when, in the course of the debate, the Right Representative tries to present it in such a way that the Centre Party has become a tailhang for the trade movement. The centre party raised this matter before any claim was actually made by the trade union movement. I find otherwise reason to stress that no one knows exactly how much the search for the Norwegian labour market will become as a result of the expansion. Enlargements of the EU area have been implemented in the past, and influxes at that time were not over-concealed. However, this time the country geographically closer to Norway than was the case earlier. There is therefore reason to believe that some increase will take place in any case, and in any case, the risk is so great that this is enough to lead was rather than soon. There is a risk that if one had not received these measures in place, Norwegian labour could be squeezed out and Norwegian labour standards for pay and working conditions would come under pressure. Experience shows that workers from the countries concerned mainly take temporary jobs, where wages are converted into other currencies to cover the cost of living in their home country. These costs of living are much lower than here in Norway. If this slips away, competition in relation to Norwegian labour will be a most unequal battle. A Norwegian family must have wages and salaries to cover the cost of living in Norway. The Central Party also agrees that there will be a certain supply of labour from the eight EU countries, and this is probably also both necessary and beneficial for our economy. But we must not forget that it is approx. 100 000 unemployed in this country. Unemployment is a heavy destiny for the individual, and high unemployment also represents an unused resource for the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e531	I'm a little surprised at the debate. It sounds like someone has suggested that we focus on wage and wage agreements in terms of both services and labour, and someone who has suggested not to do so. It's completely wrong. There is one proposal to focus on wage and collective agreements here, and it concerns the transitional arrangements. It is linked to workers, and everyone agrees, and so the Government has promoted this as a proposal in the context of the transitional arrangements. It is therefore right, as the representative Holmberg said earlier, that there is not a single proposal from the opposition that will ensure that there are wage and wage conditions that apply in connection with the posting of labour or self-employed persons. With good will, I can say that the proposals you have here could be a strength in the fight against undeclared work and unfair working conditions, but there is nothing about wage and collective agreements related to this. We already have the only legal home that is connected to this, and it's been the government's main point, namely that we have the right to publicise collective agreements. It's not like the government didn't want to do anything. But what we have said is that when we have the right to publicise collective agreements, we need to get the first decision to gain experience in how such a decision will actually work. It's in line with what the same parties that are now criticising us, actually wrote in their comments when the law on the publication of collective bargaining agreements was passed, that is, that one might say. should not give the Labour Inspectorate that kind of duty at that time, because one would first see how the boycotting and legal mechanisms contained in the law worked. And we're going to get our first decision now. What's interesting in the post to Heikki Holmås instead, is that he did not repeat to what he really asked Kari Lise Holmberg about. What he talked about for a long time was exactly what is the main point of the Government, namely that the law on the publication of collective bargaining agreements is the main instrument. And it's in the hands of the social partners, primarily the trade unions, possibly using it. If we had done something that could satisfy what the majority has rhetorical points about here, we had to adopt minimum wages in Norwegian law, and then this hall had to start deciding what people were going to earn. And I have actually agreed with the trade unions in that is not desirable. The NHO had a group that had thought that there might be a way to regulate it. I think that would contribute to the fact that for many employees it would also be a form of maximum pay, and that is what we do not want. We want to have a degree of flexibility also in the Norwegian labour market, so that we do not get a minimum platform that is actually perceived as a maximum platform. That's why there's no match between the rhetoric in this hall and what you're actually suggesting. So we've done something. We have proposed transitional arrangements. And it's absolutely right that we've been waiting for the others to come. But it's not very surprising. We've written to Stortinget that we're going to wait to take the final evaluation of transitional arrangements, because we really don't want such arrangements. But if the pressure gets so high that we believe that our welfare systems are under pressure because we're alone, or almost alone, then we're going to make such a proposal. We wrote that to the Storting about parallel to that, for example. The Labour Party, which until then had also been for full freedom, changed its position. Then the rhetoric becomes, I think, not according to the story and the preparatory work related to this. Then we have also proposed reporting obligations as an important instrument in order to know who works in Norway and therefore has tax obligations. This is why part of the measures proposed by the three parties on the left-hand side of Norwegian policy is, above all, bureaucracy-enhancing measures, which are not necessarily targeted. Because what we wanted to see is in which areas and in which sectors problems arise. And for example, we're going to. expand some of the legal rules we already have that relate to the reporting obligation to the equality authorities, and we should first know if this is actually a problem. In the construction sector, therefore, the reporting obligation already exists, and construction is the area that is probably most vulnerable in the first instance to competition in the service sector. But the reporting obligation would give us that instrument that made us actually be able to investigate and find out what the development is, and make sure that people, among other things. pay taxes. That is why I am quite surprised at the rhetorical points of this case. We can disagree with how much bureaucracy we want to spend on Norwegian business. We can disagree on how detailed we should be in such rules. However, there is no proposal here to guarantee the salary and tariffs for posted workers and self-employed workers. It's actually in the last area exactly right as Kari Lise Holmberg says, it's impossible to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e544	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e547	Governments are wrong. There is a requirement for collective pay in the case of State and municipal tenders. This will mean that the companies that want to come to make such tenders will have to deal with the Norwegian tariff. There are requirements for schemes that will ensure that unprofessional actors will have more difficulty acting in Norway. This will help to reduce this problem. On 1 May Polish and Baltic enterprises will take sub-contracting prices in Norway with local wages and salaries. On 1 May Norwegian companies will establish themselves in the Baltic region in order to be able to work in Norway with Baltic salaries. How can the Government not defend putting in place a single measure to meet this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e554	None of the proposals by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen will prevent this from happening from 1 May. This may mean, with my best kindness, that later on you can discover that there have been irregularities in some areas, and also undeclared work, but nothing will prevent it, for example. Poles who want to work through a service provider's company will come before the collective agreement is published in that area. And so it's in the hands of the trade unions to ask for it, and it's in existing laws. We already have the first thing. Then I would like to stress that on the question of tenders, we have replied to the committee that we now have to assess the ILO Convention in relation to the obligations you have. Our general answer in terms of municipalities is that we want to stimulate municipal autonomy. There's full freedom for each municipality to do that, and from the state side, we're going back to the answer to whether we're going to implement it or not, when we're done evaluating it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e561	The government long insisted that Norway should not have transitional arrangements in connection with the forthcoming EU enlargement. Now, because of the circumstances, the government has turned around and believes that there is a need for transitional arrangements. However, the Government still believes that there will be no large influx of workers into Norway from these new EU countries. Furthermore, the Government claims that despite some temporary leave, Norway will need to import foreign labour, because in some occupations and industries it is considered that it is not possible to fill its domestic labour force. I have two questions. Firstly, what industries and professions does the Government think there is such a desperate need to import labour into? And secondly, the most important thing: can the State Council assure the Government that the regulatory home will now be used as strictly as possible, to limit social dumping and pressure on Norwegian welfare benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e570	I'm not sure which prescription helmet it is now aimed at. But with regard to the decisions that will be taken in the Stortinget later related to this matter, which has a majority in the Stortinget behind it, we come back to the Storinget with this. However, in the light of the statements made by the representative, Mr Skreisestad, I just have to say that with a deadline to deliver the proposals set by 1 June, we will not be able to follow the investigation manual, have a hearing, or let any interested parties have a special impact on them. So if you're afraid of that kind of consequences, you also have to be aware that this is going to be a lot of fast work, at the risk of stakeholders not being heard. But we're going to get back to this. Yes, we are going to need a lot of labour in the future, especially if we are able to ensure that competitive business in Norway is not closed down and moved out. My biggest challenge to the issue of labour is in fact that it is competitive business that is going to move out of this country, if we do not ensure that we get inflows from more, or if we do not manage to get a greater share of those outside the labour market into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e579	With respect to reporting, it is not possible to go to the pulpit and accuse people of just making rhetorical points, and then to come back with a long harange of rhetorical points. Obviously, the Council of State may not have understood what is in the position of the majority, for example: under I and J, which are directly linked to the publication of collective bargaining agreements. The point is that if a collective agreement is to be published, one must somehow know that something ‘fun’ is actually happening in the industry, in the company, etc. The Council of State opposes the view of the Labour Inspectorate and also opposes what the opposition proposes, namely the possibility for employees to have access to subcontractors and to discuss rentals and sub-contracting prices with the main contractor. This is something which would clearly enable employees to reveal what is necessary, in order to ensure that, for example: to be able to require public tariff agreements. All that is proposed in relation to 1 June, which is now adopted, has been discussed in the context of St.meld. No 19 for 2003–04, which relates to working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e588	But it is still the case that in the debate we have had today, there are some who have stood here and claimed that the government parties and the Progress Party are not interested in ensuring that pay and tariff conditions are followed in Norwegian working life. The main point in my main post was that neither of the proposals made by the representatives from the left-hand side of Norwegian policy actually gives it the guarantee, except for the home and the law on the publication of collective bargaining agreements that already exist. It has been in the whole process and in the discussion about this Government's position that when we have this law, it is the one that has to be used, and it is the one that gives the means to possibly decide that in some areas competition is so big and conditions so bad that we have to generalise the tariff agreements. Then we have said that in other areas, when the decisions are taken, we will look at what other targeted instruments need to be deployed in addition to this, in line with the SV's actual agreement when we introduced the law on the publication of collective bargaining agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e595	Earlier this spring, the municipal minister was at the annual meeting of the Land Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture. According to the media, she was pointing a warning index finger at employers. Among other things, she spoke out.\t\t You can ‘The EU and EEA enlargement from 1 May will lead to a certain increase in labour migration to Norway. It will impose extra stringent requirements on the cleaning of Norwegian employers.’» On the basis of these opinions, one would believe that the Council of State was concerned that Norwegian employers could take care of themselves. But funny enough, it is very difficult to recognize these concerns in the proposals that the Government has now put forward. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is: Was the Council of State misguided, or is the Council of State still concerned that Norwegian employers can get along?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e606	No, I'm not mistaken. I am not worried, but I am still very aware of the message you will also give to the employers in this country who had to feel interesting trying to end the code we actually have. So what I said in that talk was that when we get the extension, you can't start working until you get a work permit. You have to follow the rules of full-time work and pay that the government has proposed and agreed to here, and we're going to hit it hard if you don't. You have to be aware of that. When it's not in the odelstningsproposition, it's because they exist. Infringement of the Foreign Affairs Act makes it possible to punish persons who claim illegal treatment and where conditions have not been cleared up, and we intend to use it in our home. I register that a majority wants to get such a legal home. We've tried to explain in several ways to the Stortinget that there is a legal home, and we're using it. Every year, a significant number of persons who have used illegal labour are fined.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e615	To conclude the debate with this small round here: The point of the opposition is not to say that there are quantities of instruments in relation to the provision of services other than the publication of collective bargaining agreements. On the contrary, we say that we have the ILO Convention that can apply to public matters, but in terms of private matters, we have nothing but the publication of collective agreements. But what we're saying, and what we're proposing -- I'm still shaking my head a little bit because the Council of State doesn't see the important point here -- is that if a person wants to promote the use of collective bargaining agreements, and that's what I think is desirable, as I also mentioned in my main post, then one has to make it easier to gather information and get knowledge of the conditions of work and actually make it easier for employees. It is therefore the case that the government parties are voting against our proposal to have the Labour Inspectorate monitor public tariff agreements, the government parties are voting against our proposals to improve the transparency of the trustees, and the government parties are voting against our proposals for discussions relating to the hiring out of labour. That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e622	The proposal to be adopted by the majority on the Labour Inspectorate concerns the enforcement of rules when decisions on the law on disclosure have been taken. In the law there are two mechanisms today. One is the use of boycott against the company, which is a powerful tool to use. The other is actually going to the judiciary and asking for sanctions through the judiciary. Whether the Labour Inspectorate will also have a role to play in following this, we have always said that we will take a closer look. But we first wanted to get a review of how the law actually works. We might need a denominator decision, so we could look at how you could practically manage to implement it before you did it. My objection to most of the proposals that come from the three left-wing parties here is that they involve a significant degree of red tape, especially with increased reporting obligations, which will have financial consequences for businesses and which will be introduced in all areas of the world of work, and we do not yet know whether this is going to be a problem or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e629	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e632	In a few days, the EU/EEA will be expanded by ten new countries and a total of 75 million new inhabitants. This will certainly also give us some new challenges, both positive and negative. What's amazing in this case is that we have a government that has not been willing to be in advance, but that has taken a waiting and seeing attitude to the whole EU enlargement. It's passive. The Labour Party says yes to labour immigration from the new countries, but at the same time – and that is important – we say no to social dumping. We demand that a number of measures be put in place that can counteract black work and social dumping. Transitional arrangements will now be put in place, and that is good. But anyone who has worked on these issues knows that transitional arrangements do not solve everything, and transitional arrangements are temporary. Therefore, the other measures may be even more important. Because there will still be free movement of services. In this area, as you know, transitional arrangements are not possible. Self-employed people can come and set up their own business here in the country and relate to laws and regulations, pay levels, etc. in the country from which they come. With wages of a quarter of Norwegian wages, it is easy to see that this can be a problem, not just for us Norwegians, but also for those who come here. It is expensive to live and live in Norway. Therefore, only Norwegian salary levels are acceptable. The Labour Party therefore believes that we need to put in place measures to combat discriminatory discrimination and to protect against the exploitation of the new EU workers coming here. The progress party meets itself at the door in many areas of the setting. On the one hand, they want to be very restrictive in relation to labour immigration, but to give, among other things, trusted substantial power in the fight against social dumping, no, they will not be involved. Then they fail. Written contract of employment with information on pay, working time, duration of work and that the employee is guaranteed a reasonable living relationship, the government parties and the Progress Party will also not be involved. It becomes a paradox and quite incomprehensible that just a few days before EU enlargement, the government makes it easier to establish private employment services, even though we now see that the problem of unprofessional rental companies is increasing. Today, there is a requirement for those who want to provide private employment services. Either the company must be registered as a limited liability company or a financial guarantee must be provided for the company. The aim was to ensure that the companies were responsible and serious. Now the government is going in just as well to remove these terms. The last remainder of the authorisation for rental companies disappears. Today there are 900 such companies in this country. It is far more than we thought it would be when the law on rentals was passed, but the government believes it is still too few. After the new proposals, it now keeps using a random mailbox as a business address. Is that how we want a serious labour market to be in this country? The working party believes no. The Labour Party believes that this will provide a basis for even more unprofessional actors to get on the road. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party believe that there is a need for an evaluation of the experience we now have with the liberalisation of employment services, rentals and temporary employment agencies so far. We believe that there must be a system for monitoring, approving and registering agencies that provide or hire labour in Norway, but we do not get a majority for that. It is because the problems with unprofessional rental companies are many: Taxes and charges are not paid. Overtime rules are not followed. The Foreign Affairs Act is being broken. Those who operate black cannot be checked, according to what the Labour Inspectorate says. Here, both the LO and the NHO disagree with the Government and strongly warn against doing this, but the Government is only going to last. The evening post writes on Wednesday 21 April that the Stortinget will take a decision on a ‘gap hole in new Norwegian labour immigration law from new EU countries’. The title is called ‘Push up the house at Polish prices’. And of course they're right. It's going to be a problem that we can't now adopt a law that's tight. We're going to have to repeat this exercise many times and close these holes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e677	A few minutes ago, the lively horn music passed the Stortinget. Perhaps this debate should be more marked by the moods that the Janitischer Corps gave us than the problematization that many want to put at the bottom of the debate. The EU enlargement on 1 May, with the expansion of a common labour and service market, provides new opportunities for Norway. This is good for Norway, especially in view of our future labour needs. It will provide increased recruitment opportunities from foreign trade unions, with skills that we do not have or do not have enough of today. Enlargement will make a positive contribution to increased value creation, to the development of the Norwegian economy, public services and business. At the same time, I recognise that the free movement of workers from the new Member States can, during a transitional period, lead to imbalances in some parts of the national labour market. I feel the need to say that this debate can create the impression that we are almost getting lawless conditions with the EU enlargement. I would like to remind you that the rules and laws that now take care of workers in Norway also apply to those who are now coming to Norway, regardless of whether they are employed in Norwegian companies or are employed in companies abroad. The majority ask the Government to draft legislative proposals that the Labour Inspectorate should assume responsibility for overseeing compliance with the conditions for the granting of a work permit granted by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, i.e. that workers from the new EEA countries work full-time and have normal Norwegian pay and working conditions. I see the need for a stronger focus on and better control that the terms of work permits are being followed up in the context of EEA enlargement. The Government will, as far as possible within the short term, follow up the wishes and intentions of the majority in this context. However, I would like to stress the importance that this can be followed up in such a way that, as a whole, we get an appropriate and effective work permit regime. We must avoid unnecessary waste of resources by building up dual competences in the Labour Inspectorate, the UDI and the police, avoiding ambiguities in responsibilities and ensuring that different departments have clearly defined roles. The Labour Inspectorate is faced with a comprehensive process of conversion, the aim of which is to strengthen, target and streamline supervision. A key element is that the EEA should work according to strategic priorities. The budget shall be a central contributor to the work of an inclusive working life. This means that, in the future, priority should be given to the prevention of organisational and psychosocial work environment problems, which represent the main exclusion problems in working life. The work on becoming a more focused department requires a stronger focus on these core tasks and that more and more skilled work be done in fewer areas over a longer period of time. These are the priorities the size has joined. I therefore assume that the new responsibilities of the Labour Inspectorate for supervising the employee’s work permit and whether the conditions of the employee’s employment are met must, as far as possible, be carried out within the supervision’s already planned strategies, areas of competence and priorities. However, it is clear that after the EEA enlargement, the Labour Inspectorate must follow up its supervisory responsibilities for working and employment conditions for foreign workers. Among other things, we must: expect a particular need to focus on fundamental rights within the HMS, working hours, written contracts and employee involvement. The work of the Labour Inspectorate in this context will include information measures and supervision by focusing on particularly vulnerable sectors. In order to prevent unprofessionalism and illegalities in the workplace, the establishment must continue to play an important and active role as a coordinator between different authorities. The majority of the population ask the Government to come back with legislative proposals that allow employers to make sure that all employees have identity cards, to require employees to display identity cards on request from public authorities, and to require the employer, the main contractor or the contractor who has a contract with the builder to provide crew lists and documentation of wages and salaries. I believe that the project ‘Seriousness in the construction industry’ can be a good starting point for the design of a legal provision in this area. The proposal is generally formulated, and I believe that such access should cover all employers and employees, irrespective of their nationality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e698	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e701	The Government wants to liberalise the legislation on temporary employment and hiring-in of labour. The Labour Party believes that this can lead to organised short-term imports of low-paid labour in a wide range of industries. Since the conditions of temporary employment also regulate the conditions of employment hiring, embellishment of the provisions of the Employment Environment Act will increase employers' opportunities to cut the proportion of permanent employees at Norwegian salary levels. In this case, the losses will be exposed groups in the Norwegian labour market. Does the Council of State Meyer believe that there is a danger to it, or does the Council of State consider that enlargement of the European Union has no significance?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e706	I record that it is a broad majority who want an embellishment and a more flexible labour law in Norway. I note that a large majority want future labour law that is more geared towards future jobs. The question of temporary employment is duly addressed in the position of the Labour Law Committee. The position is now at the hearing of the Hearing Officers, and I do not want to go into a substantive discussion on this issue until I have been given the opportunity to listen to the Hearing Officers. I have also announced an odelstingsproposition that gives the Storting the opportunity for a broad discussion. It shall be delivered during the harvest session.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e713	In this context, the Labour Inspectorate has an important role to play: to be able to carry out a satisfactory check that the provisions of Norwegian law that apply to posted workers from other countries on service missions in Norway are actually complied with in Norwegian jobs. The Council of State was involved in its contribution to the role of the Labour Inspectorate. I hope that the Council of State will now give priority to the use of resources within the Labour Inspectorate in such a way that we have sufficient control of jobs where there are foreign workers and hired labour, so that we are sure that the legislation that, after all, applies will be complied with in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e720	I am in the same way as the representative, Andersen, concerned that the Labour Inspectorate should be given the opportunity to follow control tasks and monitoring tasks associated with the EEA extension, and I will ensure that the Labour Inspectorate is given that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e726	I am very pleased that the Minister drew out ‘seriousness in the construction industry’ as a project to which it is worth listening. Just that with registration was one of the things you took up, and as we thought it was right to get in place. And I give the Council of States quite rightly that he has perceived the majority correctly – at least this part of the majority, I get to say – when he interprets the decision as he does. One of the things that came out of the ‘Seriousness in the construction industry’ was, among other things. that it was said by the management of the entrepreneurship company Skanska that through this study they discovered an environment and a commercial morality they had not been prepared for, with all their experience, where there was a mixture of crime, bad employment, etc. My question is: does the Council of State agree that a reinforced effort to reduce pay and work conditions and crime, as we now give the Labour Inspectorate a majority, will also be compatible with the other work done by the Labour Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e735	First of all, some of the issues raised by the representative Holmås are not directly related to the EEA enlargement, but are linked to the need to ensure that Norwegian laws and regulations are actually complied with at any workplace, regardless of whether foreign or Norwegian labour is present. I am concerned that the Labour Inspectorate plays the role that Stortinget has assumed in this debate. What I'm concerned about is that we don't create bureaucratic, difficult solutions that deprive us of the ability to deploy public resources in the most efficient way possible, that we don't build up unnecessary dual competences in many terms, but that we still manage to coordinate in a way that makes us both use resources well and meet the needs of the community for oversight and control.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e742	The Council of State said that the Labour Inspectorate has an important role in relation to the control and enforcement of Norwegian labour law. Of course, we fully agree with that, but in fact, in order to operate the necessary control – and it will only strengthen itself in the time to come – the Labour Inspectorate must be given more resources. Is that up to the Council of State? Then I can mention, since the Council of State is from what I myself come from, that the trade movement in Hedmark and Oppland have had a control over construction projects in the mountain areas. There's actually the hourly payment that's paid out, one thing, and what's in the contract, something else. This means that the Labour Inspectorate is also responsible for entering into the economic and accounting bit of the enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e749	I have confirmed in response to a previous question that I am concerned that the Labour Inspectorate will have the necessary framework conditions to follow up the necessary verification and oversight work related to the EEA extension. I confirm the answer. I am also concerned that the important role played by the Labour Inspectorate – not least because one has a legitimacy among the social partners, both employers and employees – is not weakened by the fact that the Labour Inspectorate is also given almost a payroll responsibility, which may weaken some of the legitimacy and broad understanding of the Labour Inspectorate's work in particular on preventive work. The Labour Inspectorate will also have major challenges independently; in fact, it will be completely impossible to control pay payments made elsewhere than in Norway, where employees are employed in a company that does not have Norway as their business address.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e756	It is constantly being repeated by the representatives of the Government with more bureaucracy and the building up of dual competence. Governments know very well that there is no real pay supervision at all today. This has been left to the social partners. That's exactly why the majority here in the Chamber, when you still get from the department and government in St.meld. No 19 considers that it is natural that they should also be given the tasks of the other two paychecks, namely what is currently left to the UDI and what is the result of public tariff agreements. Thus, there will be no double bureaucracy. Everyone agrees that it is through the publication of collective bargaining agreements that something can be done about social dumping in the provision of services. My question is: does the Council of State think that the publication of collective bargaining agreements should be used more by the trade union movement?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e763	I have recorded that in this room, despite the fact that the rhetoric does not indicate it, there is a broad consensus that the strongest and perhaps the only solid instrument we have against social dumping is the publication of tariff agreements. This is now at issue in the subject of Tariffs, and it must be the working life and the workers’ organisations themselves that have a special responsibility to bring these questions to the attention of Tariffs in the areas where Norwegian working life considers such solutions to be particularly necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e770	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e777	This debate shows, I think, a gigantic turnaround from part of the Biggest Party, in reality all except the Advance Party and possibly the Center Party. When, under the Stoltenberg government, we already made proposals to ask for transitional arrangements in this area, the sneezing was rejected by the Stoltenberg government, by the LO and also by the other non-socialist parties. After the change of government, we have repeatedly made proposals in connection with the enlargement of the EU to ask for transitional arrangements, insofar as I remember as late as last autumn's transfiguration. All of this has been rejected. You've had a high profile of keeping it open, and you've shown it, for example. to Sweden and Göran Persson, who have had exactly the same profile before. So today we experience that the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left are trying to show themselves that they've been busy with this for a very long time to prevent social dumping. I have to say that I fully share the views of the municipal minister Erna Solberg; there is nothing of what is specifically proposed that would prevent what many are concerned about preventing. We proposed in Innst. S. No 149 for 2003-2004 to continue the current restrictions on the new Member States, i.e. the current regime against labour migration should apply for seven years to the new Member States. It might be the only effective way to limit these problems. It was voted down by the government parties and by the Workers' Party and SV. They even used quite strong, negative characteristics of the Progress Party that could have such a hopeless attitude. And now they are trying to present themselves as very restrictive, because they want to use this issue to strengthen the transparency of trade union trustees. It is their right of access, not authority, not intervention. So this is a huge political revolution, where, with the help of some naive journalists, you try to trick the Norwegian people into thinking that you've been busy with these things for a long time. It is only after other countries have done so that the Progress Party has for years asked, after other countries have introduced transitional rules, that it is reasonable to do so in Norway as well. And then the Labour Party and the Socialist Left now try to present themselves as the parties that will go the farthest to limit the possibilities of both social dumping and competition from workers from other countries. I think it's quite frivolous. They can regret that they did not follow our instructions at earlier times. Then we might have had better time for active work to find schemes that might have been better than those that are now being adopted. But this is as much due to the Workers' Party and the SV as the sitting government – that is, all parties except the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e788	The representative Hagen gives the impression that the Progress Party will continue the current rules. But they won't. The provision of Section 2 (2) of the Foreign Regulation on wages and salaries under a collective agreement is continued. But there is another provision, which goes on housing, Section 20 of the Foreign Regulation, which the Progress Party is voting against, despite the general view expressed by the representative Hagen. It is not true that the Progress Party has entered into the process of continuing previous arrangements. They have an opportunity to vote for that today, but that is what the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen are against. Then I have to record that there is a significant lack of consistency between rhetoric and policy on the part of the Progress Party, because, as the speakers of the Progress Party have also pointed out, the biggest challenge is that of companies with their own employees in Norway, and therefore transitional arrangements are not possible. It is not possible to do what Mr Hagen has pointed out, to continue the current regime. Schemes in force for Norwegian business must be implemented in the same way as for the rest of the EEA economy. But that's not what the Progress Party wants. It is wrong for the State Council of Solberg to state that none of the proposed measures would have a clear impact. Yes, of course they do. If you require municipalities and countries to require collective bargaining in the event of a tender, it is not possible for Polish or Baltic companies to come to Norway and pay their employees under the terms of their country of origin when they may be engaged by the State and the municipality of Norway. But this is not just the party of progress, it is right against, and it is the Christian People's Party against it. But there is a full opportunity to vote for it today, to implement ILO Convention No. 94 in Norwegian legislation. That's why there's a lack of consistency in what the Progress Party here says. Then it is right that the Progress Party is involved in some measures, on registration, etc., which is excellent, and which is a follow-up to what the Workers Party has proposed, and which the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre also proposed in the setting of the deposit message that was being processed recently. But the problem is that the Progress Party is not involved in the most effective measures. On the contrary, it is warned to go in the opposite direction, because the main individual measures that will lead to increased labour migration from the new Member States are, after all, further liberalisation towards increased use of temporary employment, because the increased use of temporary employment is regulated by the same provision as renting employment. Companies can then establish and hire labour from Poland, from the Baltic and from the other new Member States to Norway, and they can retain the conditions of their home country. However, it believes that the Progress Party is right, despite the fact that it may be the action that will be most problematic in terms of increased labour migration and in terms of conditions that would undermine Norwegian wage and working conditions. Furthermore, the Progress Party has an excellent opportunity to put a brake on it, as last Friday the Government presented proposals for further liberalisation in terms of labour rent, which will also help to facilitate the provision of employment in relation to the new Member States. Here the Progress Party has the opportunity to vote against. Welcome!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e806	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen said most of what I should say. I only have one supplement. In the debate it was highlighted by the spokesman of the Progress Party, the representative Torbjørn Andersen, that the Progress Party was against one of the instruments that is actually the most effective in combating social dumping, hopefully, namely the publication of tariff agreements. It's probably the most effective when we first get it on the rails and get it started. But that's what the Progress Party says they're actually against. My question is: if you go against all the proposals that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen listed in relation to ILO Convention No. 94, in relation to ensuring better transparency and opportunities in this area, what is it that is left to Norwegian workers in order to ensure their pay and working conditions? Everyone here in the Chamber, even the Progress Party, agrees that it is the free flow of services that is the biggest challenge in terms of pay and working conditions in Norwegian working life. But then it's funny that you're proposing to remove the most effective and, in addition, not come up with any other suggestions, but just hustle over the parties that actually promote suggestions. I feel that this is an example of the Progress Party trying to communicate as many messages as possible to as many people as possible at the same time, while trying to emerge with an inner consistency. It is very difficult when the proposals that are being promoted are not linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e820	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 419]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e836	I think you can just start calling voting, I'll just say it simply: The background to this case is that the House Bank will be moved to Drammen as a result of internal discussions and at the request of the Government to move larger parts of the state enterprises out of Oslo. Since I am Oslo's representative, while I am the case rapporteur, I feel the need to say that I believe that this type of relocation should not happen in part and in part, but in whole. But once there's a majority in this room for such a policy, I'd say that this process has gone significantly better than many other emigration processes. There have been good discussions – of course with disagreement. It is not exactly the case that employees in the House Bank jump on the roof and shout that they have to move to the Drammen. But it's still like it's been a good process, and you're now looking forward to moving out. The rental contract for the new premises is ready, and it's just for us to say ‘go’ to it. As I said, I have full confidence that the employees and the management of the Husbank will come up with good arrangements that will ensure the conditions of the employees, and that will take care of the people there is too much trouble to be left, by repositioning and that kind of thing. However, I assume that the government is in the process, in connection with the budget and revised budget for next year, giving us an update on how the processes have progressed. We have nothing to do but recommend what the Government has proposed in this case. So here it's going to be a whole lot of agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e851	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 421]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e859	The odelsting shall now vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e867	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen, on behalf of the Committee
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e896	On behalf of the Committee, the rapporteur drew up the proposal to amend the last sentence of the third paragraph of Section 50.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e965	As an alternative to the first paragraph of the recommendation, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first and second subparagraphs of Section 58a are replaced by the following:For workers covered by point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 51 who are citizens of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic or Hungary, it is a condition for a residence permit that, as a general rule, full-time work is involved. The condition does not apply to workers who have been legally resident in the State as a worker for at least the previous 12 months.The King may, by regulation, grant rules oma) that the worker must have a residence permit before starting work, as stated. § 50,(b) access to the labour market which deviates from point (a) of the first paragraph of § 51, including rules on pay and working conditions and documentation of employment,(c) that the residence permit and its renewal are granted for up to one year, cf. §§ 54 and 55, and, if applicable, withdrawal of a residence permit which departs from the first paragraph of § 56. The second paragraph of the proposal for a legislative decision shall become the third paragraph.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the recommendation. The proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party will be replaced by an alternative between the first paragraphs of the recommendation and the entire proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e1003	The Committee's recommendation to the second paragraph of Section 58, which has now been the third paragraph, is then put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e1019	Here is a proposal, no. 2, by Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen, on behalf of the Committee. This proposal replaces II in the recommendation and reads: ‘In Law No 24 June 1988 64 on the admission of foreigners to the kingdom and their residence here, Roman numeral II shall be replaced by the following:§ 56a shall enter into force from the time the King decides. Paragraph 58a shall enter into force immediately.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e1035	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e1046	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e1117	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, B to N shall send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e1154	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-04-23-lower.ana.ud1084e1164	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
