ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e31	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament for the remainder of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e39	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e43	Mr. Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s remaining meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e67	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Lars Sponheim State Council Laila Davay State Council Ingerd Schou In relation to the original notification, the Council of State has notified Laila Bavøy of the occurrence of the disease. The other members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e86	I'll be allowed to ask questions to the Social Minister. The cost of sick pay is expected to increase by over DKK 1.4 billion in addition to the government's failure to do so as late as the budget procedure in the autumn. And as if that wasn't enough, it's estimated that the number of disability pensioners will increase from 301,200 at the turn of the year to 314,500 at the end of this year. When can one expect the Government to come up with real and feasible proposals to counteract this negative development that we are now seeing, and stop blaming the fact that the IA agreement is the major obstacle to implementing the type of proposals that are now needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e93	The question that Nesvik raises is important. The growth of sick leave is high. This is why the parties together with the Government have looked at a number of measures to reduce sick leave, then in the context of Ot.prp. No 48 on an inclusive working life, which is for treatment in the United Kingdom. The welfare systems, in particular, are to be targeted at getting people to work. Employers are obliged to draw up an action plan for each sick person so that they can return to work. This applies to penalties in relation to payments for non-employers. There is an awareness and a commitment to doctors and their responsibility to focus on what you can do despite being ill, and also penalties for doctors losing the right to print out a medical report when you do not follow this up. And it's not least in relation to the individual subject an obligation to participate in order to get back to work, to add a plan for return. There is a recognition between the parties that the workplace is the most important area for reducing sick leave. The government has chosen to continue the agreement. Now it is up to the parties to deliver in relation to the contract of inclusive work and to reduce sick leave. However, the agreement expires in 2005, then it will have to be evaluated, and the results should start to reach. It's up to the parties to show.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e98	Unfortunately, the response of the Social Minister cannot be said with satisfaction, because what is being treated is faltering on an old system. There are no new real measures. Something that could actually have worked was the more effective use of organizational grants in enterprises. But there you actually suggest in the revision to cut down by 15 million. kr. In addition, companies that are not members of the IA system have been deprived of the possibility of using this. Another measure that could have worked is that, once and for all, we had brought together the labour market, social security and social security policies into a common establishment, so that people who need it could be followed throughout the system instead of meeting watertight bulkheads. Here it seems as if the Government is completely paralysed. One lets this go around in an infinite consultation within the state apparatus instead of presenting a matter quickly to the Stortinget. Can we now expect the Minister of Social Affairs to see to it that we quickly get a case for the Storting in terms of merging the floors, and not continue to show paralysis in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e103	Here, the representative of Nesvik cannot have followed up on his own comments in the context of the handling of the notification on the coordination of Aetat, Social Security and Social Service. The Progress Party, inter alia: was particularly concerned about the involvement of those organisations which were particularly affected by a merger and a better interaction between Aetate, Social Security and Social Service. We had a year to present the previous big message. The Progress Party even asked that we establish a joint body and take particular account of the involvement of the parties involved. The sample now working, with a broad reference group, with all those involved included, has a deadline of 30 June. It shall then be held at the hearing in order to meet, inter alia, the following: the majority of the population concerned, namely the involvement of those concerned. Then the Government will return to the Storting as soon as possible during the current ageing period. It is an important reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e108	There will be three follow-up questions – first John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e111	The active search message was inserted some time ago. It was supposed to be positive, as the contact between the workplace and the sick worker was not cut. The results so far unfortunately show that this has become a failure. Active health care services lead to longer sick leave and higher social costs. This was reproduced in a daily newspaper this week. Can the Minister for Social Affairs confirm that this is correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e116	What Alvheim's representative is about is a relationship that the government has also seen. Therefore, clarifications have also been made in the follow-up to the intentional agreement that classified medical messages should have been tested before active search messages where possible. Active medical message is used, as the representative Alvheim points out, just to keep in touch with the labour market. What we see is that some employers, and insofar as doctors, also use active medical services where the right thing to do would have been to use classified medical services. If you can do something and a bit of the work you do, then the search message is the right one. If you can't do any of this, you have to have the active search message. Therefore, in the follow-up agreement with the parties, it has been stated that priority should be given to the priority given to the activity, precisely in order to meet the involvement of the representative Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e122	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e125	When the sick leave and disability leave increase, we have the IA agreement. Here the state is a contracting party, both because the government is a large employer, and because the state premises on how the whole municipal sector can behave as an employer, whether they can afford to have a good working environment and enough people so that people do not get sick of the job they have. In fact, I need to ask the Minister of Social Affairs: what does the State as an employer do in this area? Because when we look at the numbers, the state is a disaster in terms of disability and early retirement. This applies both in the country's own business and in state-owned enterprises. Does the Minister of Social Affairs and the Government have any idea of how many people have run into disability because they want to reduce and relocate their activities? What kind of policy does this Government really have to ensure that people are not pushed into disability until the general retirement age?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e130	It is important to bear in mind that when disability benefits are granted, they must be based on a medical justification. First, I would like to say that it is under the Ministry of Labour and Administration, and what the Government and the State sector are doing is going, among other things. to develop an action plan in particular in relation to the recruitment of disabled people to the public sector. It's at work. The second is that all of my government colleagues have reviewed and been given an overview of the state of sick leave in each department and have a full overview of the underlying institutions. Every state council takes this by seriously reducing sick leave. What the government has also done is that we have introduced a temporary, temporary non-entry fee from 1 January of this year, which will lead to fewer people being permanently pushed out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e135	Ola D. Lukewarm – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e138	The agreement on inclusive working life was to ensure that more disabled persons and persons with disabilities were employed, got more in active employment. It has gone the opposite way, and here the Minister of Social Affairs has a special responsibility. I think so far that the Minister of Social Affairs has answered little and incompletely about what to do in order for people with disabilities to get more into the inclusive working life. So to this with the increase in sick leave. It turns out it's those with long-term sick leave, those with a medical certificate, who are primarily increasing in number. Has the State and the Government taken its responsibility here, by ensuring that the treatment system, the medical treatment and the offer there are good enough, so that people are quickly removed from waiting cows and quickly rehabilitated after medical treatment? We know that queues are increasing in some contexts, and that rehabilitation institutions are struggling because they are not being used up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e145	That is precisely the point of creating an action plan in relation to each and every one who is sick, in order to be able to come back actively. A plan is to be drawn up in cooperation with the sick person, with the doctor and with the employer, to provide an overview of what treatment needs — that it actually does. But the most important thing, despite having a diagnosis and receiving treatment, is perhaps the cooperation we have established with the Medical Association in order to get the opinion that it is important to ask, despite being poor: what are you going to do in your workplace? When it comes to getting more people with disabilities back to work, we have, among other things, the organisation grant. When used correctly, it has been important. The fact that the government has reduced by 1/2 G in relation to purchasing and making facilities available at the workplace has been one of the central things. When used correctly and correctly, it also helps a lot. However, I fully agree with the representative of Luttvold that Objective 2 of the Memorandum of Understanding has had too little attention. There is now a set of targets for enterprises to deliver results in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e152	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e155	I also have a question for the Minister of Social Affairs. Now on Monday Jens Stoltenberg and Erna Solberg had a debate at Dagsnytt Athens about, among other things. this contract of inclusive employment. There, Erna Solberg said the following: ‘And it is clear that if we, for example: had obtained the IA agreement that Jens Stoltenberg was able to sign just before he had to leave as Prime Minister, if it had given the results that were said at the time was such a good alternative to making other changes to the health pay scheme, we would have had 10 billion more to dispose of now. But it has turned out that it was really voodoo, from Jens Stoltenberg, because you can't get that kind of results." The Minister of Social Affairs has an important responsibility to follow up the agreement on inclusive working life. Does the Social Minister agree with his new party leader that believing in the IA agreement is like believing in voodoo?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e167	What I believe in is at least the results I see, and they don't. It is not that sick leave has gone down. It's got session. It is not that there are several disabled people included in the working life. There's more on the outside of the world of work. And it's not like more people are in work and retire later. Nevertheless, the Government has chosen to continue the contract of inclusive employment. And now it's up to the parties to show results in relation to just reducing and achieving the goals in these three areas. We would have $8 billion more to go with if we had managed to reduce sick leave this year, $10 billion next year. It is clear that this also gives a hint as to which room of action is not available, by the fact that these funds are not available. But the most important thing may be that we need this labour force that these people represent – not least given the cost of being excluded from the labour market for each one. We have chosen to continue the agreement with the parties, and we are tightening up in all areas. It's about the sick person having to be active in order to be entitled to sick pay. Doctors may be deprived of the right to print a search message if it turns out that they repeat it all the time. It shall be such that active search messages shall be only for those who are unable to perform their normal duties. It is also the case that the workplace is the most important venue for doing this. The government contributes to facilitating grants, contributes to a reduction in the employer’s contribution for older workers and contributes to the removal of G in relation to the provision of special facilities in jobs where disabled people or those with reduced working capacity need special adaptations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e176	This is getting pretty interesting. For my question is whether the government believes in the agreement they themselves have agreed to continue, as the Social Minister now says. So the right-hand party leader referred to the agreement as voodoo. We see that here in the Stortinget, right-wing against the Stortinget becoming an IA company, leading politicians send out signals that you don't believe in the IA agreement as an instrument. You think working after those lines is like believing in voodoo, and that's what the party leader says in the social minister's party. And then I think that the social minister, who has a responsibility to follow that agreement, must be able to say clearly in Stortinget that yes, she actually believes that this can result, or that she does not. Does she agree with her party leader or not? It should be a simple question to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e181	It should be reasonable for the representative: it is the government that is here now. The government has continued the agreement with the parties. We're going to do everything we can with the parties. But the government has now done a lot, and now it is up to the parties to deliver. We have chosen to continue the agreement, and then it is the agreement that applies, and an agreement is an agreement. In spite of that, the Workers' Party should also be concerned that one in five workers' age lives on social security, that people are out of work and are not included in the workplace, that welfare schemes are growing in the order that we have recently seen in the revised national budget, where we are spending about NOK 3 billion. Last year’s transfers amounted to NOK 15 billion. And if we look back a few years, we have in a short time had an increase within the welfare schemes of NOK 21 billion. This should also worry about the Workers' Party, because behind every number it's a single person.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e187	There will be follow-up questions – Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e190	I register that the government says that the government has chosen to continue the agreement. But I'm very much in doubt about what the government actually means. Does the Council of State mean that the IA agreement is an instrument that can help bring down the sick leave, or is it there just to satisfy and calm down the trade? I also ask the question: Has the government done enough for the IA agreements to work? It is quite strong that Right's leader, municipal minister Erna Solberg, calls this the attempt of 'voodoo' from Jens Stoltenberg's side. My question is: does the Minister for Social Affairs take away from such a description, the use of the word 'voodoo'? And since this is a question time, I'm now waiting for a concrete answer to that question, which is now asked for the third time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e197	The president also had a feeling that the question had been asked before.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e200	Definition of words and confirmation of words I'm not going to give. I haven't taken these words in my mouth. I would like to point out that the Government has continued the agreement with the instruments that are now being dealt with in the Odelstingsproposition. And I want to say that in many ways, what's in the contract of inclusive work is a proper way of thinking. This is the right way because the sick leave and the presence work are to be done at the individual workplace. It is also important that we be able to disseminate the good examples that actually exist as a result of the agreement on inclusive working life. In fact, there are between 12,000 and 13,000 enterprises — small and large — which, if we look at only partial targets 1 in relation to sick leave, show a decline and that by laborious work can do just that. The important thing now is that we are also able to disseminate the good examples that exist as a result of the agreement on inclusive working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e209	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e212	I would encourage the Minister of Social Affairs to be specific about what makes a job not create disease, and what makes a job not push people into dissatisfaction. In yesterday's VG, the Minister of Labour and Administration said: ‘The main reason why many people report sick is that they are at work.’ When we know that this absence and exclusion are increasing most in the health and social sector, which is public activity – state or local – do I have to repeat: is this government not talking together? Yesterday, a proposition was made about the local economy, which means that there will be fewer people in the care sector to make the heavy promises, there will be more people left alone, and there will be more people getting sick at work. It turns out that the hospital economy is also very tight, and we know that this is where the changes are so big that people get sick of it and can no longer go on working. Now this government has to stop shifting responsibility between itself and get a comprehensive policy showing what measures the State has taken to ensure that there is less sick leave in the state and in the health and care professions and fewer unemployed people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e228	It is precisely in the care sector that we find some of the good results in reducing sick leave. You should not travel to many places around this country until you find the bad examples, but you can also find the good examples in the care and care sector. We see that one of the most important things is good leadership. It's about management, it's about organisation, it's about division of tasks so that employees know what to do, it's about defined areas, and it's not least about each one being seen. We also see that examples of so-called wish-making tours in the care sector have been successful in relation to the whole of care. This is why the Government has been committed to the ‘Flinking with People’ project, which is working together on management and quality development, and which is working against this sector. The municipalities are responsible for the care of the elderly, i.e. care services. The growth in the income of the municipal sector this year has become the strongest since 1997. In addition, there is something about part-time jobs: in cooperation with municipalities, we also monitor part-time jobs in this sector in order to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e237	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e240	The agreement had three main pillars. No. 1 was reducing sick leave by 20 pst. before the end of 2005, No. 2 was increasing the real retirement age, and no. 3 went into employing more people with reduced function. All of this has failed. But there's something the Social Minister said himself here instead that had worked. This was the organisation grant. It is then remarkable that the Government is now actually cutting by 15 million in the revised national budget for the organisation grant. kr. In addition, the art piece has been done that only IA companies can apply for organising grants in order to get properly organized jobs. This means that you are more concerned with the contract than you are with helping employees. My question is: does the Minister for Social Affairs really think that this is the right way to go to reduce sick leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e249	Yeah, I mean it. The operating grant is 107.7 million. kr and shall be used to facilitate work. There is now an evaluation report showing that the grant has been significantly used for something that falls within the responsibility of the employer for organisation. We see that when an organisation grant is used correctly, it actually produces results in terms of greater levels of organisation and inclusion of people who need special work arrangements. However, when we also see that employers use it for extra work, overtime, temporary work to hold employee interviews, it is outside the scope of the organisation grant. Does the Progress Party really believe that the State should use the organisation grants to do what any decent employer in that country should do without having extra money to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e258	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e262	The Minister of Social Affairs does not seem to take over the responsibility of the State and the Government for the medical treatment and rehabilitation of those who are out of work because of illness. She talks about that one should deprive the doctors of the right to print out search messages. But is working life becoming something more inclusive of it? And does that make people fresher? I think it's more right to focus on what kind of health care they get, which first has a disease, and which is sick and out of work. It is the specialist health service that is to a large extent to be provided, and the specialist health service is the responsibility of the government. However, the poor economy of hospitals leads to an increase in the number of Corridor Asians and, as a result, to poor treatment. Increased waiting lists are we also afraid that we will get now. What kind of responsibility does the State have here — including in terms of inclusive employment? As regards rehabilitation after medical treatment, this is starting to become scandalous in this country. Our rehabilitation institutions are in the process of going bankrupt because of poor funding and underutilisation of capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e271	I've visited several of these rehabilitation institutions, and several of them are focused on just making arrangements so that people can get a rehabilitation, so that they can get back to work. They're doing a very important job. In contrast to the representative of Joy, I'm probably more concerned with the active measures to get people to work and set up a race there than keeping people on passive social benefits and benefits. But I fully agree that the goal is that more people get out of work before, and that you get a shorter disease career. Then these institutions are important. Both in the budget for this year and in the revised budget, more money is being given to regional health businesses. It is also under the responsibility of the Minister of Health. When we've looked at in particular what's going on in the rehabilitation period, it's been based on the fact that people have gone years after years without anyone asking for, taking up or making special arrangements for the individual. In particular, we want the rehabilitation period to be a maximum of two years, with the exception of those with very serious diseases, and to assess professional rehabilitation in the past. This is also a strengthening of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e280	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e283	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Norway has taken the lead in animal welfare. Despite this, we receive both newspaper headlines and reports that show that there are major shortcomings. The examples are many: animals both die and are injured during transportation. We know that animals can stand up to 20 hours in the slaughterhouse without food and water. Even animals have been started to be slaughtered before they are sufficiently stunned. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is: What does the Minister of Agriculture intend to do, and what does he do to end this animal abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e292	Fortunately, we have received increased attention and increased involvement from many teams for increased animal welfare, not least after the Storting treated the animal welfare message. That's good. The follow-up to it we are now working on too fully in many areas of the department, and also in the underlying offices, especially the Food Authority. Here, there are now ongoing measures. There are regulatory changes, which the representative is familiar with, but in this it's important to have a finger and an eye with where the animals live. We will always face individual cases that should not happen. We have to get better at preventing it, and we have to get better at monitoring it. That is why we have put in place a new food inspection from 1 January this year, which is also responsible for this with increased attention to these questions. It is a standing order, and we have an ongoing dialogue with the Food Authority that these tasks should be prioritised and followed. Unfortunately, we still get reports of individual cases that are not good. There may be human failure in a single case, or there may be personal tragedies behind it. These cases we're trying to follow up as best we can through the supervisory arrangements we have. I'm very pleased, even personally, with the strong commitment that is now around animal welfare issues. I think there are many of us who are strongly affected when animals suffer. I'm very pleased with the commitment that Stortinget and not least the representative Ryan are showing around these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e303	I thank you for your answer. One of the reasons we have so many problems is that we have got a slaughterhouse structure where there are significant transport distances. If I'm not mistaken, there are only five or six slaughterhouses left that are involved in the slaughter of chicken. And with the long-range country that we have, it says it's going to be significant transport distances. Has the Council reflected on the need to go round and re-view the slaughterhouse structure in order to reduce the distance between slaughterhouses, to allow smaller slaughterhouses to be allowed more effectively, so that the animals escape this long transport journey? It's not to hide that it's just being transported that a lot of these injuries and sufferings happen among the animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e312	This issue represents precisely the very difficult balances of an economy that is growing, which is growing stronger, where growth and efficiency are increasing, and it in principle puts pressure in the negative direction of these issues. At the same time, we're going to try to improve animal welfare. These are many difficult compromises. I think we should admit that. We are gradually getting, in order to maintain the necessary efficiency and profitability requirements, among other things, a centralisation of these facilities that pushes the transport time to the limit. Now, fortunately, we have very clear rules for how long the transport can be. Then we also have to say that where new plants are built – I myself was present and opened a new chicken slaughterhouse yesterday – the transport distances become large, but animal welfare inside such a facility, with killing methods and everything, becomes much better than it has been before. But that's right: these are difficult balances, and we have to find the right balance between animal welfare on the one hand and reasonable efficiency on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e319	There will be two follow-up questions – first Grethe Fossli.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e322	The slaughter structure is a daily theme. Values are now being rationalised, for example: its slaughterhouses, which in turn lead to longer transport distances, and the eight-hour rule is threatened in some cases. We have received several enquiries about this. My question to the Council of State is: to what extent does the Ministry assess possible alternatives to these large slaughterhouses, such as: Farm slaughterhouses, mobile slaughterhouses? In addition, we have also received a number of enquiries that in some cases the Food Authority does not follow up well enough on this with animal welfare. I understand that the reorganisation has resulted in a lot of time being spent on it, but to what extent is it possible to strengthen the relationship of the Food Safety Authority with the work on animal protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e329	It is only to confirm that the large slaughterhouse companies are rationalising. There will be larger installations and longer distances between installations, and thus longer transport. However, I believe history over the last 10 to 15 years shows that a structure has been maintained, precisely in the light of the concerns of the representative here, which has caused problems with the economy of these businesses. It is only to compare with other countries where they have slaughterhouses that operate 24 hours a day, while in Norway we have kept on a structure where slaughterhouses may slaughter six to seven hours three to four days a week to keep a good spread. The economy then pushes these businesses to a greater rationalization. It happens. The government has opened, among others: for the use of mobile slaughterhouses in traditional domestic animals in Norway. It is entirely on the edge of EEA legislation, but we have nevertheless chosen to open it up. If it's possible to get it economically profitable, that's a bigger question. This also applies to other small-scale slaughterhouses, which we open to as long as it can provide satisfactory food security.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e336	Åsa Elvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e340	I want to go back to the main question from Ryan, because in spite of increasing attention, animals are still suffering unnecessarily. When Stortinget dealt with the animal welfare report last year, we said in the committee that we wanted one to work to find alternatives to the use of animals for research purposes. Experience suggests that new technology means that using animals for research purposes should be unnecessary, but it requires bets, and it requires a lot of action. We've been told that nothing is happening on this front, that one is not betting, and one is not active in relation to letting animals suffer unnecessary suffering in connection with research. Is that right? What does the Council of State intend to do to comply with its decision on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e347	I can assure you that all aspects of the animal welfare message – to which the Stortinget agreed, and where there was an extensive commitment on my part in these issues – are continually being followed up. It is a set of different measures that are being worked on. One of the areas that is a challenge, which is the eternal, difficult, balanced compromise, is that we use animals in research, not least in medical research to serve public health and improve life for humans, and that animals in that context are both deprived of freedom and suffering. It is a reality. And then we have to minimize the use of laboratory animals and reduce the suffering to a level that we can accept. It's working on it. This is a lot of a volume question: can we limit the number of trials and the volume, i.e. the number of animals used? Using modern computer technology, simulation programs, etc., which can reduce the use of animal testing, is exactly what we're working on. And I can assure you that this is being followed up, as the animal welfare message has added up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e356	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e359	I also have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. In the context of the reorganisation of the Food Authority, there was a broad consensus in Stortinget to add to an organisation to ensure a uniform and, as much as possible, equal control across the country. However, the funding of the Food Authority has given greater and greater cause for concern, as the majority of the Grand Duchy, in line with the Government’s proposal, has adopted a form of funding which means that a very large proportion of the funding is charged. This is a form of financing that affects, in particular, the smaller installations. We receive daily reports of small processing plants, small slaughterhouses, which are having problems because of this. For example, a small plant in Melhus in the south of Trøndelag receives a cost increase of 1.2 million. NOK due to fees to the Food Authority. The Central Party agrees with the Minister of Agriculture that it is necessary to stimulate diversity and small scale and niche production. But how has the Minister of Agriculture intended to achieve this, with the method of financing to which the Government provided and agreed in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e368	If I'm going to see this main question a little bit in the light of the previous main question, this shows how difficult it is. Then it was about animal welfare and the importance of having a good and good oversight, as the Food Authority is. It requires resources. We get just as much supervision as we pay for. And that's important for animal welfare. Now we are facing the opposite end, that this costs, and it has to be paid; a little above the tax bill and above the budget and a lot – gradually – of the individual user, as the Stortinget has decided. It's so that after what the Storting has decided, we can finance up to 80 pst. by the Food Authority, using fees and charges. We're not doing that much now. I can assure you – and I have said that in the past – that the government in the 2005 budget will reduce the fees represented by the Food Authority. This year we're adding up to be the most expensive year for users. In addition, as the Storting has asked, in the revised national budget, which was presented yesterday, it is widely discussed how the Government is now working to reduce the costs of the meat inspection. It is special for slaughterhouses or meat establishments that, in addition to the regular food inspection costs, special meat controls are imposed on us internationally and represent substantial costs. It is clear that small slaughterhouses with small volumes, with the difficulty of obtaining large volumes passing the veterinarian’s eyes, are subject to high costs. We are now working a lot to bring down the costs, so that all the slaughterhouses only pay for actual costs related to this. I would also like to remind you that the meat inspection now, as an integral part of the entire Food Safety Authority, allows us to use these professionals, the veterinarians, also for other work, when it does not run through slaughter in the slaughterhouses. And in practice, we now see that they are using hours off to do other work around the farms – or on what it might be of oversight. And that's the rationalization we're after.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e375	I would like to thank the Minister of Agriculture for an answer that I saw as very positive. It is good that the Minister of Agriculture realises that the financing model provided by the Government, which actually meant 90 pst. the costs were to be financed by fees, not sustainable in relation to the preservation of the small slaughterhouses that we agree we want to take care of. Because it's just those who disappear, it's those who get the biggest increase in costs, because – as the Minister of Agriculture said – they have small volumes. And when it is a goal for all of us to preserve the small slaughterhouses and the small processing plants, it is precisely necessary to set up the financing system as has been done in other countries, that a large part of it is financed by the state budget and a relatively small part goes through the fees charged to each user. Such a conversion of fees is absolutely necessary and in line with the proposed Central Party during the processing of the organisation of the Food Authority. I just want to ask the Minister of Agriculture to confirm that there is such a transformation the Government is now considering, where a smaller part is to be financed through taxes and a greater part of the tax bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e382	That's not what I said in my first answer. What I said was that once we've put in place a uniform supervision that includes the three different inspections that were before, we have opportunities for an efficiency improvement that we're now seeing, which means that costs can go down. And the fact that we can reduce the total cost of food supervision allows us to reduce the fee charged to the industry. It is not an expression that the State should take a greater part of these costs. It is true that users face a large proportion of these costs. That's how you rationalize and be effective. Many users can do so themselves by facilitating and concentrating their work, for example: in the slaughterhouses. That's why it's important to keep this. But we have said that there must be more efficiency. 10 pst. have already been notified for the first year of operation after the year of establishment. It shall benefit users in terms of reduced costs. And that is what I have announced will come in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e389	There will be four follow-up questions – first Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e392	The party of progress was strongly opposed to introducing Europe's highest meat inspection fees here in Norway. With the significant cost level of food production in this country, it means higher prices, fewer farmers and job losses in the processing industry. But I'm going to go into concrete things the Council of State describes. Rationalisation in the area he mentions will be of very little importance if certain tasks are not allowed to become a public task, such as the costs of the Scientific Committee, emergency tasks, information, bureaucracy, etc. That's what's at the heart. If the Council of State wants to go in to let it become a public task, I can guarantee that there will be a majority for it in Stortinget with the support of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e399	I would like to stress that, as far as the financing plan for the Food Authority is concerned, the State currently takes a quarter of the cost of the budget, and the quarter is intended to cover precisely the directorate functions, regulatory design, scientific committee and all this that it is not natural to ask users to pay. Then there's the work done outside the user's office, like the approval of new facilities and the continuous inspection of meat, where users pay an hourly rate for the professionals who are in there. With regard to the introduction of the meat inspection fee, this is an old system that we have had and that we are internationally required to have. Many of us know this system, where the official veterinarian stands on every line of slaughter and stamps the carcass of slaughter for diseases that may be. That work can be rationalised significantly. In the past, there has been a separate system, a separate fund, which has had an annual cost of around 112 million. kr. Now we want to integrate this as part of the Food Authority. We should be able to use those people rationally for other tasks as well, and thus bring down control. But the stamp and the food security will never go on chords with this council.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e406	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e410	It is a bit funny that when society imposes on an industry tasks of supervision and food security, society is not willing to pay for that supervision and the requirements of food security, but the industry should do so. It is also a bit funny that when you want the structure to be maintained with the smaller slaughterhouses to ensure better animal welfare, you put up with a system that obviously needs to change the structure and that the small plants disappear because they do not tolerate the costs. It is also a bit funny that a government that is so eager to pay taxes like this government is so eager to increase taxes in different areas. Does not the Minister of Agriculture really see that this is both anti-business to the industry involved, and also socially, because it simply means that we all, whether we make good or bad, get increased food prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e419	There was a lot of fun here. I don't think it's funny that food producers are concerned that what they offer consumers is safe food, that they stick with regulatory authorities, and supervision that ensures that they deliver safe food. I have experienced nothing but the fact that all actors in the whole food value chain are happy that we now perhaps have the world's best food supervision in Norway. It's not unreasonable, as I see it, that it's the different actors in the food value chain, and at the end of the day consumers, who pay the cost of making sure that this food is safe. Then you could say that everything could have been paid over the state budget, but I don't know that we have a government budget that has those possibilities. So here we're talking about approx. One billion kroner to run the Food Agency, and as much money as the representative Arnstad seems to have to spend in this area, the Government does not have. I think it's right that users meet some of the costs, among other things. to organise effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e426	Inge Ryan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e429	We in SV are pleased that we received the new food inspection and the coordination that took place there. We are also impressed by how quickly it came to be in relation to the progress plan that had been put forward. What worries us, like previous speakers, is that costs are too high. Norway is a high-cost country in many areas, and we have problems having schemes that can satisfy agriculture. When, in addition, the costs of the Food Safety Authority are at least at the European summit, we find it worrying. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is more about this with head office. When you create new and heavy organisations, such as the Food Authority, it often becomes a heavy head office and relatively modest with resources to carry out the tasks. Does the Minister of Agriculture focus on the need to keep the head office down to a minimum, so that most of the resources are located where the supervisory objects are?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e438	Let me first express my joy at the commendation of the Food Authority that Ryan here expresses. I think that's the basis for it, and I think a lot of this attempt to get rid of a completely newly started organization, as some have done, is unreasonable. It's a huge reorganization this represents, with $1 billion in budget and 1,200-1300 people involved. This reorganisation has been carried out in such a way that trade unions are satisfied. There's harmony around this in such a great organization, and I'm very pleased with that. I am also pleased with the focus and efforts of the Food Safety Authority, and I am happy to receive support for that view. So I agree. When we chose this model, we chose a very decentralised model with a small head office in Oslo and important head office functions outside. I was in Sandnes last night talking to the regional manager of the area, who has had important head office functions, and who was concerned that we should now mark when the head office functions of animal welfare were to be opened in that area. So we've focused on this, and we'll follow up and make sure there's a real decentralised organization in the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e443	Grethe Fossli – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e446	To follow up on the last one, we all agree that the establishment of the new Food Safety Authority was good. I myself have been out at the local office in Asker and Bærum and followed that work there. They do a very good job, but it is not to hide that we were all concerned about the level of fees when we established the new Food Safety Authority. We have received many enquiries, and in recent enquiries about the fees on water. My question to the Council of State will then be: Will it be possible for the Council of State to carry out an evaluation of the charging system after the first year, so that, in the context of the 2005 State budget, we will have a review of how this works in relation to small and large enterprises, as well as individual industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e453	Yes, I can answer that affirmatively. It will have a continuous follow-up. Most recently in the revision, which was presented yesterday, we have a review of the meat inspection that we want to look at carefully and organise so that the individual can reduce the costs. It's only now that we've got the Food Authority, that we have the flexibility to be able to use people for other things when the slaughter line doesn't go, and we're happy about that. In the case of the other fees and charges, which are prices for services provided by the public authorities through the Food Authority, there will be an ongoing assessment of this, and it will be in the state budget at the latest next year. I have notified that we will take this something down. So the efficiency that we expect to achieve next year should benefit users in terms of lower prices of these services. That means we have to go through the entire pricing system and see where it's best to bring down these costs. So I'm sure we'll have a lot of conversations between big business and government about this, and I have good hope that we'll be able to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e460	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e463	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture, and it's just going to the Food Agency and the Control Agency. 90-95 pst. the fish is exported. We had a control unit that took care of the quality control of fish, and that had an export certificate. Businesses have put down a lot of money, billions, to improve businesses. It has gone from the blusher's time that a blood clot fish. It's built up a giant system. Everything's gone. It's left to the Food Authority. The quantity control has been left to the control plant. It's the Food Authority that's supposed to take care of quality. Quality control of what we export is gone. As long as you don't get sick from the food, that's good enough. ‘Safe food’ is the slogan. Many who come from the Food Authority know no difference between usury and cod. And they're going to do quality control! Is the Minister of Agriculture satisfied with the system we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e472	I will briefly recall the story here. It was so that the Stortinget decided in 2003 that from 1 January 2004 we would set up a food inspection. The government proposed to have two supervisory bodies — a seafood monitoring system, as in the past, and a land-based food monitoring system. The size felt this should be a uniform oversight. I think the Stortinget came up with a good solution. We've got that in place, so it's been working from January 1st this year. I think most people will be somewhat careful about setting one too hard on such a big organization, as I experience doing a very good job, after the short time they've been running. I wonder a little bit about the approach that goes on that one is just concerned about safe food and not the quality question. I believe that a food inspection that also supervises seafood, in order to provide safe food for Norwegian consumers, is the safest and best quality control of fish and food that you can offer for export. I cannot see any contrast between that and the fact that we have food supervision that ensures that Norwegian consumers are facing safe food. It must be absolutely the best guarantee for exports. Even when I'm outside Norway, I like to eat the food that I know the locals feel safe and happy about. Therefore, I think the best quality stamp is that the food is clear for Norwegian consumption. I don't think, if I can allow myself to be so direct, there's one person in the Food Agency who doesn't know the difference between cod and hake. I just don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e484	In general, it is a good sign if the local population is alive. Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e489	I agree with the President that it is important to keep the population alive. It was supposed to be missing. The estate adopts laws. But they do not adopt regulations. The regulations are drawn up by the Ministry. I was one of those who voted in favour of a food inspection and an overall body that would be in charge of all controls, not that one should go from the control unit to the Animal Health Authority as the main body, and not that we should waive the right to quality control of the export, which was built up over decades. It's amazing that the Council of State is standing in this hall and saying that the most important thing is that one doesn't get sick from the food. It's amazing. Is the Council of State happy to have it like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e498	I don't think it's incredible, but it's actually true, that the Council of State has followed up the Storting's decision to create a uniform food monitoring system that includes both seafood and land-based food, and we've tried to do that as best we can. I am pleased that we have a food inspection that can give this seafood also a quality stamp that makes it safe to eat and high quality in all areas of the Norwegian market. Thus, in my opinion, it will also be safe and good and of high quality also for exports, which relates to a large proportion of the seafood.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e503	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e506	I have a question for the Social Minister. In Monday's pulse on the NRK, we met one of the poor in Norway, Mona Renate, who is a two-child mother from the Drammen. In a new book, poor to speak, published with the support of the Health and Social Directorate, she has courageously stood up and told me what it's like to be poor in Norway, what it's like to have only $132 a day to live for. This summer we couldn't afford to celebrate my son's five-year-old, she says. Support for child care and child care supplements is cut, the classroom is on its way back in, she says, taking from the poor and giving to the rich. Who's hit hardest? Yes, the poor kids. In the book she asks the following questions: Why do you have to take from such a vulnerable group? I think the Minister for Social Affairs should give her an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e515	Then I expect that it is the representative I will answer this question, and I intend to do so, because I think it is a good question. The government has been concerned about the poverty problem from the first day. Those who are overrepresented in this group are, in particular, those who go for a long time on economic social assistance, they're immigrants, they're lonely dependants. What we've done so far is target the measures. We know that the most important thing for those in this group is to get into work and/or education. For this reason, it has been important to increase the time spent by particularly lone-parents for education. In addition, we are now beginning to see results. I meet many of the same people to whom the representative Giske refers. We target these measures, especially in relation to work, education, support, also in relation to children, and the most important thing we can do for children is to help parents manage themselves. So far, the government has targeted measures for 2 billion kroner. This is a bet that we're going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e526	When the Minister of Social Affairs came in 2001, the fight against poverty was announced. What has happened in the two to three years? Yes, unemployment has increased sharply. The unemployment allowance has been cut by between NOK 15 000 and NOK 20 000, the benefit of child care for lone dependants has been cut, the baby allowance is cut in child care, more expensive medicine is introduced on blue prescription. At the same time, a tax reform is presented, which is to give DKK 35,000 to those who make $1 million. NOK, and NOK 4-5 for those who earn less than NOK 200000. Does the Minister for Social Affairs think this is fair? Does she think that is the right way to combat poverty in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e531	I think it's fair and fair that we target measures against those who have the most difficulty. That's why we've also spent $2 billion on it. We have targeted these measures, and we are beginning to see results. In 45 municipalities that have been involved in the project, we can now show results. In fact, among those who have gone for a long time on economic social assistance, over 60 pst. come to work and education. We often see that it's not as much as it's going to be. The government is busy making money before we spend it. That's what I thought the Workers' Party was too – to create, then to distribute. It seems that the Workers' Party is more concerned with distributing. With regard to tax relief, well-being and tax reform, the Labour Party has participated in 12-13 of the 20 billion that go mainly to business, just to create jobs, so that people can manage themselves, because we know that this is the most important measure to reduce the number of people living in poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e538	We are somewhat overtime in accordance with the Rules, but the President will allow up to three follow-up questions – first Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e541	The Council of State says the Government wants to fight poverty. So she has proposed an allocation of approx. 240 million. as part of the fight against it. However, in the context of the State budget, the Government proposed an increase in the excess of about 10%. 900 million. kr, and in the context of the revision we once again see an addition of the excesses of approx. 5 pst. or 135 million. kr. Is it possible for the Council of State to give its opinion on the impact of increased self-esteem on those groups of the population with the worst economic situation? How will it affect the appropriations made by the Government to strengthen the situation of the poor, that the excesses at the same time have increased far more than what you are willing to put in to help these groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e548	It was this government that introduced the Roof 2 scheme, especially in relation to those who have high costs of rehabilitation, dental health, etc. The government follows up with a further shielding by reducing the roof from NOK 4500 to NOK 3500. It's a target-setting just in relation to those groups that have bad advice and that have difficult living conditions. When we see that the increase in the revised, especially in terms of disability and sick leave, is over NOK 3 billion, the government has found that it is necessary to increase the excess. If the representative believes that 25 kroner in addition to physical therapy is what is the main issue in the budget, I think this contrasts with the fact that we are missing over 2,200 billion kroner to cover the pension obligations in the future. We know that the fractions are targeted, and that the shielding is present. It has been introduced and continued by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e556	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e559	What is worrying is that the Minister of Social Affairs, who is responsible in the Government for combating poverty, does not see that there is a link between having a government that systematically cuts in all kinds of welfare schemes that are important to the poor, while systematically honoring the tax system in relation to those who have the most of them. It seems that the Social Minister is fair and a good way to combat poverty. It's a strange angle of incidence. So the Social Minister says that what is important to target, what is most important, is to make sure that people who have been out of work for a long time, long-term recipients of social assistance, come back to work. I basically agree with that. But if there has been a target of employment policy, it must have been a complete failure, because in that time the Social Minister has been a social minister, the number of unemployed has increased by 80,000. How does the Minister for Social Affairs seriously think this is poverty reduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e566	I fully agree that getting people to work is the most important thing, and that action in relation to unemployment is important. That is why we now see that unemployment is falling and that the forecasts are good. Then I want to say, no, we don't cut into schemes that hit the poorest. We cut into arrangements that affect the representative Hansen and me. When self-interest was introduced, it was 140 000, today it is 900000. I don't think there are so many poor people in Norway. It doesn't seem like it is. But what we really are doing is putting in protective arrangements in relation to roof 2, which the representative Hanssen's government did not propose, but as this government has suggested. We're further reducing that, just to have a social device for those who have bad advice, and who need it the most. In addition, it is important that we increase what is going on in vocational rehabilitation, precisely in order to address active measures rather than go on passive social welfare schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e575	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e578	It was a strange answer the Social Minister gave to the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen that they were not cut off for those who had the worst advice, but were cut off for those like the Social Minister and Hanssen – thus also for those who were signed. Then it is strange that the Government, when presenting the 2004 State Budget, has just proposed that the self-interest rate, i.e. thank you 1, should be raised to NOK 2 500. But the Storting stopped it. It is also strange that this Government cannot provide a single budget without increasing its balances. Even now, in the revised national budget, proposals are being made to increase the proportion of self-employed persons. We know that very many people in the poor category are sick people with high expenses. How can the Minister of Social Affairs claim that it is Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, the Council of State and the undersigned who are being hit?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e585	I think I've answered this question earlier. The government is focused. We see that we have focused the measures on those who are poor, especially on helping people in work and getting into education. We know that's where the distinction between poor and not poor goes. In terms of the excesses, we have put in protective systems. They apply now and also in the draft budget for this year. It is not that there are 900,000 in this country who need protection, and it has been taken into account by the Government now. I don't think propensity is what's going to suffocate the daily economy for a large part of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e594	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e599	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 10, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Culture and the Church, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 12, from the representative Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, who has a disability. Question 14, by Bendiks H. Arnesen, representative of the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries, who will direct him. Question 17, from the representative Sigbjørn Molvik to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 1. Question 21, from Knut Werner Hansen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Finance, this question is moved and answered in response to question 1, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e618	The first question to be answered after these changes is question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e624	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘According to Telemarksavias on 3 May 2004, an Iraqi family with a 7-year-old multi-disabled child, who has received a residence permit in Norway, wants to settle either in the municipality of Tinn or Skien. None of the municipalities want to take in the family for fear of high future expenses related to the child's care needs. What can the Council of State do to prevent a multi-disabled child from becoming a throw-off between municipalities due to fear of excessive future expenditure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e633	Most refugees and persons with humanitarian status seeking protection in Norway need additional follow-up for the first time in the municipality, including: for the purchase of housing, Norwegian training and measures enabling them to get to work quickly or to continue training. The integration grant, which today amounts to NOK 393 000 per person. person over five years shall cover the average expenditure of municipalities on this work. It is the individual’s situation that determines the measures to be taken by the municipality. In the case of persons with known disabilities, on the basis of the application, the municipality may receive an additional NOK 120000 when they are settled, and a further amount of up to NOK 150000 if the expenditure is increased. Both grants are one-off grants. In addition, in the case of residence of persons with particularly severe disabilities, the municipality may receive a grant of up to NOK 500000 per person. years up to five years for expenditure not covered by other grants. When the five-year period after settlement is over, I assume that the municipalities use the arrangements that apply to all residents. For resource-intensive users, last year the Government established a scheme – i.e. for the current year – in which municipalities are refunded about 80 p.m. of net expenditure above NOK 700000 per year. user. Such state top funding allows municipalities to provide resource-intensive users with a customised offer, whether they are Norwegian or immigrants. I don't want us to set up special schemes for immigrants where a distinction is maintained with other citizens, in addition to the arrangements we already have for the first five years. The housing arrangement we have today is based on a cooperation between the state and the municipality. The Central Association of Municipalities provides guidance and information in the municipalities, in particular with a view to inter-municipal cooperation on the settlement and integration of refugees. It is a pre-requisite of today’s settlement system that municipalities take collective responsibility for resettlement of all residents in Norway. It is unfortunate that municipalities reserve their reserves against the settlement of individuals. For caregivers in particular, long reception stays will be unfortunate. I therefore hope that one of the municipalities that the Foreign Affairs Directorate has assessed is the best for the family in Tinn, can settle it, and do not shift responsibility to other municipalities. Per. Today we have no opportunity to oblige municipalities to settle refugees. I don't want to do that either, but the assumption is that the voluntary housing scheme is still working, even for the weak groups it's about. So the grants we give are relatively liberal for the first five years, and then they come under the new top-financing scheme for heavy users. But I don't want to hide that it's hard to get people with multiple disabilities to live, and also by people with behavioral abnormalities, for example. with a criminal background from the time of reception. People who have been in reception for a long time are currently one of the most difficult groups to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e646	Norway, as a nation, assumes both national and international obligations by accepting refugees and by providing humanitarian residence to those in need of protection. Thus, it must also be a national responsibility to ensure that those to whom we are staying do not experience again being unwanted, and almost becoming refugees in their new home country, because the municipalities refuse to settle them. This is an unworthy situation, and even more unworthy and unacceptable when it affects sick and disabled children. The Council of State said that this is based on voluntary action on the part of the municipalities, but is the Council of State also in this area dependent on great municipal freedom? Or does she see that there may be a need for greater commitment and government from the state in situations like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e653	I think that precisely these problems are some of the most difficult we have in relation to the settlement system. There are twenty-thirds of people we are struggling to live around the municipalities by means of the voluntary scheme. At the same time, we have regular and long conversations with current municipalities, including to provide them with guarantees of the money they receive and to inform them of the possibilities. It's not always just a money question. When, for example: as regards persons who have received convictions during the reception and asylum-seeking period, it is also often on the will of the politicians and the desire to receive persons who have previously been based on crime. People are afraid to take responsibility for putting the population at risk. This is one of the major challenges of the voluntary scheme. As I said, we have put in quite reasonable arrangements, according to my concepts. In fact, in individual cases, we have gone beyond these general possibilities of having individuals live, because we see that the costs are going to be very large at the beginning. With regard to the principle of volunteering, there is a principle on which the Storting has to be based at the latest during the budgetary procedure in the autumn. We have a reference to the settlement system in the revised national budget, and it is fully possible for parties in the Storting to take the initiative, if necessary, to make a premise to do something else in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e660	I thank you for your answer. I refer to the first response of the Council of State, which gave a good overview of the arrangements that exist. The Council of State shows the sea to the revised national budget, where I understand that it will carry out an evaluation of the settlement system. It would then be natural to ask the Council of State whether, in this evaluation, it is appropriate to modify or strengthen the various State instruments in such a way that, in the future, we can avoid such unworthy situations as in this specific case, where a sick child becomes a caste ball between municipalities over a year before the family can have a safe and stable life situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e665	Yes, it is particularly relevant in this context to look at the situation of those who are most difficult to live, and it is those who are severely disabled. There is also a group of lonely men, especially from Somalia, with whom we have problems. Municipalities are very happy with families with children without disabilities, and they are at the top of the wish list. The question is how much freedom of choice each municipality should have. At the same time, I would like to say that the premise for the mission we received from the Stortingen in the autumn was that this should be based on volunteering, and, secondly, that it should be within the same economic and cost framework as today. And then maybe the operating framework is a little limited, if we're going to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e672	We go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e680	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: «Technical installations represent an increasing share of the total investment on construction and are currently at approximately 35 pst. The tax depreciation rate for technical installations continues to follow the depreciation rate for barley, which is 2 pst. Technical installations, which can improve the working environment and mitigate resource consumption, thus have a low tax depreciation rate. Does it make sense for the Council of State that such a classification would distort investment towards less environmentally and energy-saving solutions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e689	Fixed technical installations in a depreciable building are depreciated together with the construction. The depreciation rates for barley reflect the actual average impairment of such means of operation with all components, including fixed technical installations. Depreciation rates were assessed in the context of the 2002 State budget. The rate of commercial building was changed from 0 to 2 pst. For factories, hotels and other buildings, the rate is 4 pst. I do not consider it appropriate to make fixed technical installations in buildings subject to specific depreciation. It would be very difficult to implement a breakdown of costs between construction and installations, respectively. Such a distribution would have to be carried out not only in the case of new buildings, but also in the case of the transfer of older buildings, with a difficult, discretionary distribution of the purchase price of the used construction and the used technical installations there. Such conversion would also result in the complete replacement of obsolete or defective equipment which could not be reclaimed directly as maintenance of the building, but would have to be activated for re-depreciation. Therefore, although the depreciation rate for construction is not accurate for all components of the construction, and perhaps not for technical equipment in particular, an overall assessment suggests that the construction is seen as a unit, including the installations, in relation to the depreciation system. The fact that replacing all old equipment with new ones can be treated as directly cost-effective maintenance and not as a new, mandatory investment should make it easier to live with this compromise. What I have said also means that I do not agree with the Hagesets representative's assumption that today's rules on the depreciation of fixed installations lead to investments being turned away from environmental and energy-saving solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e700	I hear the Minister of Finance says that this is a difficult delimitation. If you had differentiated this, so you got one depreciation rate for the building body and another depreciation rate for technical installations, I can't see that it was going to have an insurmountable problem setting. Now we've also had a revised national budget put on the table. It turns out that the social security costs and the health insurance costs are increasing. We also know that some of these costs are caused by asthma and allergies, which again include: have been saying that there are a lot of jobs that have a bad indoor climate. The government does not see that a reduction in depreciation rates is applied, among other things. indoor air conditioning facilities would provide the basis for a better indoor climate and also led to a reduction in the number of sick messages that have caused this?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e709	I think it's very difficult to see the relationship between depreciation rates on construction, including technical installations, and the development of sick leave. There is no empirical basis for such a claim. I disagree with the questioner, because I believe that today's system, where replacing old equipment with new ones can be treated as directly cost-effective maintenance, is a better system than the representative speaks for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e714	Treating initial investments as maintenance if they are maintenance could still be done, even if one had a better depreciation rate on technical installations. The problem is, as I see it, that when a set-up is done, it is twisted in such a way that one can risk saving on technical installations, because depreciation rates do not cover the real life of this type of investment. We also have a power imbalance relative to the rest of the world. I think if you had better depreciation rates, you'd also get an incentive to bet more on a loan. My question then is: Is the Council not in agreement that by improving depreciation rates, a stronger investment and investment in this area will be achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e723	I have not seen any agencies in this country go in for a change in depreciation rates. It may be that I do not have a full overview, but so far I have not seen it used as an argument in any of these debates. On the other hand, the Progress Party often uses it as an argument against our tax system that it is too complicated. But every time you go into the details of the system, you're going to make it even more complicated. Here it's about keeping your tongue straight in your mouth. If you want a simple system, you have to make it simple and not more difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e728	We're now going to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e734	This question, from Knut Werner Hansen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e737	« The municipality of Tromsø wants to remove the manorless garbage. This necessarily has to be delivered to waste receptacles. This costs money. [[e.g. NOK 522 per year. tonnes in final handling charge to the State]] Does the State Council consider that the position of the Ministry of Finance in this matter contributes to a clean coast and a good environmental policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e744	It is correct that the municipality of Tromsø has applied to the Ministry of Finance for exemption from the final treatment fee in connection with the cleaning of garbage. The municipality has been informed that the application for exemption from the fee obligation must be addressed to the Tollregion Nord-Norway as the first instance, with access to justice to the Directorate of Customs and Fees. The Ministry of Finance has not taken a decision in the matter. However, the Ministry of Finance has presented to the municipality of Tromsø the background to the waste tax and applicable legislation. The purpose of the levy is to reduce the total amount of waste and to price environmentally harmful emissions from the final treatment of waste. Waste collected in sufficient or similar ways creates environmental problems in the same way as other waste and is therefore subject to the duty. In my view, any exemption should be based on objective criteria. This means that exemptions will be difficult to limit to some specific actions such as «Rusken» and others, but must include waste from all activities carried out on an ideal basis. In that case, the control problems and opportunities for circumvention could increase significantly. In my view, on this basis, it is not appropriate to provide for a general exemption from waste submitted by special groups or with a particular origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e760	For me, this is about environmental policy, not financial policy. I register that I get a response from the State Council Foss on behalf of the Government. My question, however, was addressed to the Minister for the Environment, because I believe this is about environmental policy. Governments have not answered my questions – whether the attitude of the Ministry of Finance contributes to a clean coast and a good environmental policy. The Minister for the Environment recently opened the ‘Hold Norway Clean’ campaign. This campaign is ‘a national effort to combat congestion in public spaces’. The vision is ‘A clean and pleasant Norway’. The charging system we have in Norway is contrary to such a vision. In England you have a good system, at least with regard to the final treatment fee. The question is: Will the Council take the initiative in evaluating this instrument, i.e. the final treatment levy, in waste policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e771	I have answered the question, and the answer is justified by environmental policy. The environmental impact does not depend on who collects the waste, the environmental impact depends on how the waste is treated. We would have a strange environmental system if it were to be such that the environmental impact was to be measured after the waste was collected by voluntary effort, or if it was municipally paid guards or other personnel who collected it. The answer to the question of an evaluation is: Yes, when the scheme has worked for a few years. But it doesn't yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e778	Everyone agrees that garbage is ugly, and I think everyone has to contribute here. The ‘Hold Norway Clean’ campaign, as I mentioned earlier, is behind ‘all good forces’ – it’s on their website – including departments, state agencies, etc. In my opinion, this has become an accounting principle. The answer from the Ministry of Finance to the municipality of Tromsø, to which the Council of State has referred, points out correctly that a derogation can be applied for in relation to the customs region. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance makes some general comments that give little hope of getting a positive response. Therefore, I could be tempted to ask if the Council of State could contribute to a softer interpretation of the treatment of customs authorities in retrospect. If not – what will the Government’s contribution to a pure Norway in this context be?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e785	It would be that you pay your taxes, as Stortinget has foreseen. I just remind you that the fee has not been introduced primarily for aesthetic reasons. I agree that trash is a udder, that it should be collected, and that we should have it neatly around us. However, the treatment of waste and the impact of its treatment are an environmental problem. That is what the charge is supposed to apply, and then the question is which person has collected the waste, the environmental policy is entirely on the side in relation to what the charge is supposed to affect.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e790	We go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e796	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘More than 20,000 people in Norway get cancer every year and the number is increasing. Media surveys show that there are different treatment practices for patients, although we have clear national treatment guidelines. There is reason to fear that the treatment is of different quality from one hospital to another. This is unfortunate. What can be done to ensure that patients with cancer receive the best treatment, regardless of where they live or which hospital the patient chooses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e805	Knowledge and experience are important for good results, including: in the treatment of cancer. I have previously answered questions about quality in relation to breast cancer surgery in this room. Measures have been put in place to ensure better quality so that more women are offered breast-rescuing surgery, which is currently possible. The methods of cancer treatment are developing rapidly. Actual experience — which can only be gained by treating a minimum number of patients each year — is required to maintain the competence that patients are entitled to meet. This could lead to a change in the division of tasks between hospitals. It is therefore gratifying to report that all five regional health establishments have now taken action in this respect. In northern Norway and in central Norway, it is decided how cancer surgery should be distributed, that is, collected, in fewer hospitals than today. And I've been informed that the others are on their way with similar decisions. This is in line with the governance document of regional health companies, and I quote from there: «Regional health establishments shall plan and operate according to professional guidelines and research-based diagnostic and treatment methods. Where there is clear evidence of the link between volume and quality, e.g. in parts of the cancer surgery, this shall be used as a basis for the organisation of the service.» This would have to involve centralisation of certain functions. At the same time, however, we also build out decentralised solutions – for radiation treatment and for parts of the cell poisoning treatment. We use modern telemedicine solutions, so that we can follow patients in a professionally adequate way, for example. in case of radiation treatment in Ålesund and in case of cytotoxicity in Alta. The Norwegian plans for the expansion of jet engines now cover the need for radiation treatment and facilitate the use of capacity across regional borders. We also have good experience using research directly to ensure the quality of cancer treatment. In a project on rectal cancer under the auspices of the Cancer Register, a registered treatment results have been used for systematic training of surgeons and other specialists. At the same time, a feedback is given to the individual hospital on how their results are compared to the average. This project has demonstrated significantly better treatment outcomes and far less local differences than originally observed. The Government, in cooperation with the Norwegian Cancer Association, has appointed a working group to propose a new national strategy for cancer prevention. The group submits its report to the Ministry of Health next month. I am aware that equivalence and quality in cancer treatment will be fundamental to the proposals that this working group will put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e823	I think the answer was very satisfactory, but I use my opportunity to ask at least one additional question. I am not a strong spokesperson for centralisation, but I fully support what the Minister of Health has done in relation to the division of labour between hospitals, especially in the area we are talking about here today, in order to ensure the quality of treatment. I also have information that patient volume means something too many kinds of treatment, whether there are cancers or other diseases, so I think it's important to use it. It was also gratifying to hear that regional health businesses and health businesses are doing a job in this area. The question I would like to address briefly is: Will the Minister of Health and/or the Storting be informed about what is now planned or implemented by changes in the structure of cancer?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e832	I would like to thank the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen for the good qualities of the answer. I want to say that what's exciting about cancer is that it illustrates some of the things we're facing in the health care in general, that in some areas, here, surgery, it's right for the patient to centralize. In other areas, including cell poisoning and radiation treatment, it is right for the patient and for professional reasons to decentralize. So we're both doing it, and we're doing it using the tools that the hospital reform has given us for stronger coordination across previous county boundaries. So to the specific question. In the planning and reporting section that we have announced that we will present to the Stortningen in connection with the government budget for the autumn, we will explain the plans of health businesses for major changes and structural work. I notice the desire to be further briefed on what is happening in the field of cancer care, and it will be natural not least in the extension of the national cancer strategy investigation that I mentioned in my main response.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e841	I still think the answers are very satisfactory in this area. It is often the case that plans are discussed – implementation is sometimes different. But I understand that this work is in progress and is in a good track. However, I would like to ask the Minister of Health: if we look at this in the light of the experience we have, with differences which cannot possibly be justified on a professional basis, could there have been economic reasons and not professional reasons why we have had discrimination until today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e848	The last additional question is far too far to be easily answered during the time available, with one minute's speaking time. But I think the causes are quite complex. I think one of the reasons is simply what kind of competence you are recruiting for the individual hospital. You get several of the kinds of operations and treatments that they can get, the ones that get recruited. It is an expression of coincidences that should not guide health care priorities. I think another reason might be that what characterizes Health-Norway is a strong perception of what a full hospital is. There has also been an obstacle to a division of work between hospitals that could have ensured better quality of treatment for patients. I now see that with the hospital reform, this kind of force is being challenged. That, I think, is a positive result of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e863	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Many people are prescribed by doctors vital medicines that are not authorised for ‘blue prescription’. The doctor must apply for the patient and it may take a long time before the application for reimbursement of the medical costs is accepted. What will the Council of State do to ensure that patients who need vital medicines do not come into a situation in which they cannot extract their medicines for economic reasons?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e872	The majority of the expenditure on medicinal products for human use in the population is linked to medicinal products authorised for prescription on a blue prescription without a prior application from a doctor. For a small proportion of the medicinal products reimbursed under the BIP, an individual application for the BIP is required prior to the use of the BIP. The reason for individual application is usually either that the medicinal product is so new that it has not yet been included in the list or that it has not been included in the bladder prescription list because it is considered less cost-effective than other medicinal products included in that list. A third possible reason is that the disease to be treated is very rare. As the representative of Eirin Faldet points out, the examination of such applications will necessarily take some time. If the application procedure takes so long that it threatens patients’ health, this is most undesirable and action must be taken against it. I am aware that the number of individual applications has increased in recent years, and that this can contribute to an increase in the length of proceedings. In 2003, the social security system received 135 000 such individual applications. The average processing time was probably 4 weeks. However, there are considerable differences in the time taken to deal with such a case. Many curative matters are quickly handled, while advice from medical and pharmaceutical specialities is needed in more demanding cases. In order to meet the new challenges, the Swedish National Agency for Drugs has set up a working group on current pharmaceutical organisation and possible improvement measures. The working group shall assess organisational, working and case flows, system support, competence and the need for management data. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the law already guarantees individual patients access to vital medicinal products. If the patient is in urgent need of a medicinal product and does not have the money to pay for the medicine itself, the pharmacist is obliged to deliver the medicinal product to the patient without payment, if the doctor has informed the pharmacist that the patient needs the medicinal product immediately. This can be seen in section 6-2 of the Pharmacy Act. The question raised by the representative Fallet has thus already been answered in the legislation. In practice, such situations tend to occur in hospital pharmacy. In such situations, the hospital pharmacy has the opportunity to deliver up to one month of drug consumption at the expense of the public interest. The obligation of apothecary to supply a medicinal product without being paid is a safety valve in this system. If the safety valve is applied more frequently than usual, there may be a basis for looking at what causes it. That's something I want to do, too. I would like to take a closer look at the relationship between individual and general reimbursements and how best to reconcile the desire for the best possible offer for all and the need for efficient resource use. I would further — no matter what the role of individual reimbursements in the future — seek the most effective treatment, so that the patient is less likely to experience a difference than at present between medicinal products that have individual and general bladder disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e887	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad that now there's going to be a medical report where you get the opportunity to look at blue prescription medicines. The background to my question is that I have been contacted in the case of a medicine called Plavix. I don't want the council to know all the details, but this is a medicine that's given to heart-surgery patients, who are totally dependent on this medicine. It is clear that this should be a general authorisation. I ask the Council of State to carefully evaluate the drugs on the bladder prescription list and whether to take additional vital medicines on it, so that patients do not have to carry ‘lua in hand’, to say the same, at the pharmacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e896	I welcome the fact that that assessment has been carried out and that the response to that assessment is contained in the revised national budget, as the Government presented yesterday, proposing a reimbursement scheme for Plavix.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e901	Now I was particularly happy, because then I can report it back to them. But there are two things I want to get into the Council's answer. One is that the processing time is probably 4 weeks. That means that many things take a lot longer, and that someone takes a lot shorter time. Then the State Council refers to section 6-2 of the Pharmacy Act, which opens up that patients can get medicines without paying. Once this has come up and come to my mind, it is clear that this has something to do with information. There are probably not so many people who have got the right that it is possible to extract medicines without paying. It is also not so nice for people to go to the pharmacy and say that they may have to pay later because they have bad advice. It's a human aspect of this as well. I'm glad that the Council of State is now considering this, because there are also medicines other than Plavix we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e912	There's two angles of incidence for this. One is that the social security system must have an acceptable period of time. The fact that the National Agency has set up a group to look at how they can better organise their area of medicine in order to reduce the duration of the procedure is an expression of dissatisfaction. It is an assessment I support, and I expect that there will be measures that will provide shorter time to deal with these matters. The second is that there is a safety valve in the system, in the Pharmacy Act § 6-2. A safety valve is there in case of an emergency. It's important that it's there, and I think it's well known to the doctors, who are going to prescribe drugs in these cases, and it's those who need to know it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e919	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e928	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The size of the sample decided on 21 February 2002 that children needing cochlea implants should be offered investigation and treatment within a reasonable period of time in order to avoid a deterioration in the value of the treatment. If this did not happen in Norway, there would be an immediate offer of treatment abroad. A deaf-born pick of 1 and 1/2 years was referred by Buskerud Hospital to the Rikshospital, where the treatment period turns out to be 15 months. Does the Council of State consider this to be a reasonable waiting period for this type of patient?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e937	The short answer to Alvheim's question is no. I'll be allowed to elaborate on the answer. As the representative Alvheim pointed out, Stortinget has asked the Government to ensure that children with hearing impairments are offered investigation and treatment with cochlea implants within reasonable time limits. In many cases, a cochlea implant will provide children with severe hearing impairments with the ability to retain hearing residues for the rest of their lives, which also involves the possibility of improved speech function, thereby improving social function. The discount has also decided that it should be possible to spend money on treatment abroad if this is not possible to offer within reasonable time limits in Norway. Of course, when the investigation and treatment of hearing-impaired children should preferably take place before the child reaches the age of two — and this must be done before the age of three in order to benefit fully — it is essential that children and their supervisors should not be subjected to excessive waiting time in order to achieve good results. A treatment period of 15 months, to which the representative Alvheim referred, is unacceptable in this context. I have asked Health South for an explanation of how long the waiting period for the treatment of children at the Rikshospitalet is now. After I have been informed, the waiting time for cochlea implant treatment in children is now 10 to 12 months. According to the Rikshospitalet, this is due to a gradual increase in the number of patients referred to with special multi- handicaps and meeting the criteria for implantation. Overall, treatment consists of a total of three phases: an investigation prior to the operation, the surgical intervention with the implantation itself and subsequent follow-up including language training. The limiting factor at the Rikshospitalet is not the operative intervention, but the work to be done in advance and after by audio physicists and audio-pedagogists, i.e. inter alia: language training. In particular, the follow-up phase following the intervention may be long-term, with numerous and frequent controls or lessons. The challenge now is to expand sufficient audio-physical and audio-pedagogical capacity. Cochlea treatment is performed in both adults and children. With increasingly improved treatment outcomes, adult demand is increasing, which in turn requires a prioritisation between patient groups. The National Hospital has a national function for the treatment of children, and it is my clear premise that this capacity should and must be fully exploited. The number of children in need of this treatment in early childhood is too small to make it appropriate for this to be done in more than one hospital. However, Health Bergen, i.e. Haukeland University Hospital, perform the current treatment — feasibility studies, implantation itself and subsequent training — in adults. The increased waiting time we now see for children requires more adults to be offered cochlea implantation in Bergen, in order to ensure optimal use of the capacity of the Rikshospital for the treatment of children. I will follow this up with the regional health companies that are affected. The waiting time is too long for children to be treated with cochlea implant. I have taken this up with Health South, to make sure that this is followed up with the Rikshospitalet. I have been confirmed that will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e954	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased with the attitude of the Council of State, also in relation to the clear leadership of the Storting. I have to be so specific that I ask the Minister of Health about the following: What do you do with this little dick in six months and a half that has received this answer from the Rikshospital? I believe that this is unacceptable, and the Minister for Health believes that it is unacceptable. What remains is to use the Patient Rights Act and ensure that this child is treated abroad as quickly as possible. Is the Minister for Health willing to take an initiative in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e961	The initiative I have taken is to make better use of the overall capacity for cochlea treatment in Norway, i.e. relieve the Rikshospitalet for the treatment of some adults who need it. This can be done in Bergen, thus increasing the capacity of children at the Rikshospitalet, where you have the national function of this type of treatment for children. It should be possible for a reasonable period of time to lead to shorter waiting times for those affected. The purchase of services abroad will be relevant, but it is mainly relevant for the operational intervention. The actual pre-treatment, and not least the post-treatment related to language training, will naturally need to be done in Norway. Therefore, this conversion and utilisation of capacity will be the main strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e968	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that treatment abroad for these types of patients is not optimal. This should be done in Norway with the follow-up to language development and all of it. Of course, I am also pleased that initiatives have been taken to redeploy work within this field. However, in my last question to the Minister of Health, I have to ask for an assurance that this means that the waiting time for the patient this is about needs to be considerably reduced, and that she will receive treatment this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e977	I take note of the views of the representative Alvheim. I don't want to go into the individual patient's waiting time in the Stortinges Question Time, but I can assure you that from Health Sør's management now there is a strong commitment to the Rikshospital to get ahead of this treatment. If necessary, health enterprises also have the possibility to use treatment abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e985	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘According to Aftenposten on Tuesday 4 May, Professor Erik Wist of Ullevål University Hospital asserts that if Norwegian hospitals had taken new drugs more quickly, more cancer patients could have a longer life and better quality of life. High prices and strict requirements for the authorisation of new medicinal products may be some of the reasons. Does the Council of State agree with this consideration, and what will the Council of State possibly do to counteract it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e994	There are no stricter requirements for the authorisation of medicinal products in Norway than in the rest of the EEA territory. In fact, new medicinal products are authorised under virtually the same legislation and at the same time throughout the EEA territory. Nor is it the case that new drugs are particularly expensive in Norway. The method of fixing maximum prices for medicinal products in Norway contributes to the relatively low price of new medicinal products in Norway. In addition, hospitals have their own purchasing cooperation, which helps to further lower prices. I cannot therefore see that there are strict requirements for authorisation or high prices of such medicinal products in Norway which may explain the minor use of these types of medicinal products in our country compared to other European countries. Although Norwegian prices are not particularly high in the European context, I, like most doctors and patients, would like to see drug prices in Norway even lower. Therefore, I am pleased that, through their purchasing cooperation and through their Committees on Medicinal Products, hospitals are assessing both the price and the effect of deciding which medicinal products are to be prioritised in the impact fields of the individual Committees. The medicinal products used in modern cancer treatment are mainly used in hospitals and are financed through the regular financing arrangements for specialist health care. The regional health establishments have overall responsibility for the specialist health services of those living in the region. This includes cancer treatment with medicinal products. Different patient compositions can thus contribute to different needs and priorities between regions. It is basically the doctors in each hospital who give this type of priority in relation to the treatment of each patient. In order to choose the best possible treatment, medical practitioners need to have up-to-date expertise in some comprehensive medical areas. That is why we are actively working and have launched several actions to improve knowledge. Firstly, the health care centre is established from January this year – in order to improve systematic access to knowledge. Secondly, we focus more on medical research than before. All regional health businesses have their own research strategies, and they make use of funds for clinical — i.e. patient — research. Thirdly, as an owner, I have made sure that all regional health companies are reviewing the way in which tasks, among other things. cancer surgery can be resolved better – through, for example, task breakdown. We will use the same approach in relation to the use of modern anti-cancer drugs. However, it is important to bear in mind that changes in the division of tasks and the conversion of treatment methods take time. These measures, together with the efforts made by the Government and the Storting through the cancer plan, show results. This applies, for example: the development of the capacity for radiation treatment and increased efforts in the form of relieving treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1011	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a thorough answer, and I do not expect the Council of State to start dealing with drug issues here and now in the Questionnaire. But it's still a little disturbing to look at the statistics on the use of cell poisons, among other things. in Norway versus other countries. Sweden has, among other things: approximately twice as high use of cell poison as measured in crowns per cent. is based on Norway, and only Austria and Turkey actually have a lower consumption than Norway has. Then the question is, are we so fantastic in other areas in Norway, or is there actually reason to look at just the use of this type of drug? There is also reason to note the large difference between regions also in its use. The size has decided to review the pharmaceutical policy in Norway – a full review will be presented to the Stortinget in the form of a notification to the Stortinget during the year. Is this something that the Council of State will look into so that the Storting can decide?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1020	As the representative of Nesvik is involved, there are some differences, among others. between the regions. And there might be reason to go closer to this in the seams to see what's causing it. I believe that the composition of patients and patients' diagnosis explains part of this. I would like to respond without further delay to the additional questions raised by Mr Nesvik, that these are questions that it is natural to discuss in the context of the major communication on the pharmaceutical policy to be submitted by the Government until the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1027	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think that the message that comes and the treatment that the Storting is going to do in terms of the medicinal policy for the autumn may be one of the most desperate and most important issues in this area for a long time. Hopefully you'll have time to deal with it properly. But what I ask myself a little questioning is: what is the reason why Norway and other countries are going to sit on each other's nose and do full approval procedures in each country instead of having greater and more extensive cooperation? For example, Norway and Sweden, the Scandinavian countries, could have developed similar guidelines to work after. So if these drugs are authorised in one of the Scandinavian countries, you may not need to spend that long in Norway. As regards the period of authorisation of new medicinal products in Norway, we are still exceeding the 90-day deadline. Could this be a thought that the Minister of Health will consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1036	At least the Minister of Health will assess this, and it has already been largely implemented. Today, we have extensive cooperation with the EU through the European Medicines Agency, which means that a large part of the medicinal products authorised are authorised by a single European system. With the new provisions now coming across the EEA area, the proportion of medicinal products treated under the common authorisation procedure will increase to an extent. This would mean that the national authorisation of medicinal products need not be granted to the same extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1045	I have a question for our Minister of Agriculture: ‘A farmer at Hwiesser has grown potatoes for 5 years based on the French potato variety rose selection. The variety is tasty, resistant and sought after. Following laboratory tests, the food inspection has declared the potatoes to be healthy. Nevertheless, the legislation requires their destruction. The farmer is forced to Sweden, where he grows the potatoes for deliveries to Norwegian customers. Will the Council of State propose changes to the legislation so that the industrious farmer can grow the desired potatoes in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1054	Potato is an important cultural plant that can be attacked by many pests. The aim of the regulation on plants and measures against plant pests is to prevent the introduction and spread of pests not detected in Norway or which we consider to be under control or deemed to have been eradicated. Most of these are more common in Europe. Norway has, in particular: EU import requirements for both food and seed potatoes. Therefore, when food potatoes are to be imported into Norway, consignments must be accompanied by a health certificate demonstrating that both the place of production and the potatoes are controlled by public authorities. It is not allowed to use food potatoes as seed potatoes. Although we have strict regulation of imports, the Food Safety Authority can grant import authorisation to authorised seed potatoes under certain conditions. The grower of Hysser has breached the plant health regulations by importing food potatoes of unknown origin and plant health status, which he has then used as seed potatoes without a health certificate. With this he has endangered both his own and others' potato production to become infected with plant pests that are not known to occur here in the country. The Food Safety Authority believes that a negative test result when testing 415 tubers is no guarantee that there is no contamination in the potato lot. The number of tubers sampled forms a very small part of the approximately 15 tonnes in stock. The grower in question asked me directly in March last year for help to import seed potatoes, referring to the import restrictions that did not give him the opportunity to import. We then made it clear that the supervision may, upon application from the authorised seed potato business, authorise such imports. As far as I am aware, no such application has been made. In the autumn of 2003, the Food Safety Authority became aware that potatoes grown in Norway were still sold in the same summer. The Food Authority has imposed on the grower a ban on the destruction of potatoes and the cultivation of host plants for one year. Samples will be taken on the property and samples analysed for quarantine pests during spring/summer 2004. As the grower at Håsser was informed in March 2003, plant health rules allow for imports under certain conditions, if it is applied for before the potatoes arrive at the country. If he does so now, the application will be dealt with in the usual way. The potato material must include, inter alia: undergo quarantine in Norway. So today's legislation does not prevent imports.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1071	I thank the Council of State for the answer. A number of samples have been taken, and plant pests have not been detected. But it's possible that you can do this even more rigorously. I remember that these potatoes have now been grown for five years, and the grower has admitted that he has broken a ban, but one should do the best of the situation. The Council of State says that you can contact a potato shop and that you can carry out quarantine. This grower is present here today. I spoke to him before the Question Time, and he says he has done everything in his power, but the authorities and the Food Authority have not been able to provide enough information. He got the message yesterday that Graminor has an approval procedure, and that you can import these potatoes on test tube. This may take years, and this farmer risks becoming a pensioner before he can start with a proper quality production in Norway. Is it not possible, in this particular case, to grant exemptions, so that we can get the value creation at Watser and not in Stroemstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1080	New varieties of potatoes may be imported into Norway and there are procedures in place to ensure that those imports do not cause irreversible damage to plant health in Norway and all potato cultivation. The grower has been given information on procedures for how this can be done and the opportunity to do so at any time. Obviously, the precedent effect is important, when you're in a situation where you say you've done something illegal. It could have gone wrong, and it is still not certain that it cannot go wrong. I said in my answer that this is done a limited check. There may still be pests that show up. Now we have to be allowed to do this legally. I agree, but it has to go through the normal application procedures. We can do enormous and irreparable damage if we don't have a code to ensure that we don't get these unnecessary damage to our plant health. It is not that if you have been driving illegally without a certificate in traffic for very many years, and are running well, then you must be allowed to drive without a certificate. It must be the role of the authorities to say that this is the procedures for taking a certificate, and that is the rules for allowing driving in Norway, in order to ensure others and themselves against reducing safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1089	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. Of course, we all agree that we should have safety rules. But now he has grown these potatoes for five years, and the growing area is isolated. A number of samples have been taken, and there is a robust type of potatoes. It is then possible to show a certain discretion. The result of this is now that the value creation takes place in Tanumshede. And this is an angry farmer, who will surely expand his production in Sweden, because he has many who would like to buy these potatoes in Norway. Of course, he will export them from Sweden to Norway with a health certificate, as these potatoes have been imported into Norway for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1098	We have one of the world's best plant health statuses in Norway. It's because we've managed to enforce good rules in this area. We have done that by having cultivators who respect the law, for their own sakes and their colleagues. I hope and believe that it will also be so in the future that we want producers who respect that we need rules and that we need procedures to ensure the world's best plant health. I can only encourage the manufacturer who is talking about this, and the representative Hedstrom also in his conversations with the manufacturer, about now trying to get his practice on a legal track. It should also give access to the lawful import of these potatoes, but so that we can be absolutely sure of other producers and the Norwegian community that these are plants that do not cause us incurable damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1109	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘After the extremely violent search and killing case in Stavanger, there have been several cases that have been brought to the fore for an examination of the whole case. The Directorate of Police has set up a group to review the case. Since the Minister of Justice has formal political responsibility, it would be sensible, in my view, to establish an independent investigation commission. Will the Council of State take the initiative in setting up an independent review of the Stavanger case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1118	Ranet by Norwegian Cash Services before Easter, where a police officer was killed, represents a very serious criminal act and a manifestation of whatever crime we as a society face in 2004. It is in retrospect, for example: through the media, raised questions about various aspects of police handling. One of the issues is related to possible information on the pending state of affairs, and how the police, if any, dealt with such information. The raid and the murder of the police officer are being investigated with great resources. Although the investigation is primarily aimed at clarifying the criminal responsibility for the killing and robbery, it is expected that the investigation will clarify the actual course of events. The Police Directorate has appointed a working group to examine important questions relating to the investigation and the murder. The working group is composed of representatives from the Police Directorate, the Police College, the Police Data and Material Service and Hordaland, Rogaland, South Trondelag and Oslo Police District. The recommendations of the working group are presented by 18 June 2004. When claims were made in the media that there was information in advance that could provide a basis for preventing the robbery, the police chief in Rogaland Police District requested the SEFO Special Investigation Body to investigate possible breaches of the penal code § 325 no. 1 on gross insensibility in the ministry. SEFO, Rogaland, receives assistance from SEFO, Oslo, in the conduct of interrogations in Oslo. Based on an overall assessment at this point in time, I do not think it is right to set up an investigation commission. I would like to await the necessary results of the working group set up by the Directorate of Police and the SEFO. I also do not think it appropriate to implement administrative measures at political or departmental level that could interfere with the ongoing investigation in Stavanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1131	I thank you for what I so far perceive as a positive answer. I note that at least the Minister of Justice does not close the door in order to assess it in the future. For my part, this is about the trust of the police within each other. It's also about the trust that most people have in the police, like the tool that it should actually be, and that they're able to handle these kinds of events. In a sense, it is about the appearance of the police as tidy and functional in all contexts. That's why I think it makes sense to have an independent investigation. The Minister of Justice, together with the Stortinget, has been working on a new scheme in relation to the old SEFO, based on questions raised by this scheme, whether it provided sufficient independence and whether it was tidy enough. Even if you didn't question the outcome and the conclusions from there, you might have questioned some of the processes. That's why I think it's important. I also see that the Joint Association of Police has taken the initiative in an independent investigation. Does this mean that the Minister of Justice will follow the case with the eyes of the Argus and perhaps come back after what is presented in June?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1142	I said in my answer that, first of all, it is important to me that the investigation to be carried out can be carried out with full security and strength. That it can, among other things, come. in terms of both money and text entered by the Government in the revised national budget. Secondly, I think it is very good that the Police Directorate immediately started to look at aspects of the case that did not affect the investigation, but how the police are equipped or can be prepared. They work in a fast-working group. Thirdly, I think it is commendable and correct by the chief of police in Rogaland, when questions were raised as to whether there was a situation that made it possible to raise criticism, made sure that that question was raised for clarification. These questions have also been commented by the police director, and she has said that once the investigation has come far enough, when the working group she has set up has delivered its conclusions and SEFO has carried out its work, the Police Directorate will review whether the various issues that have arisen require further review and evaluation. This is a work I want to wait for, and I will of course keep in close contact with the police director about. I agree with the statements she has made here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1149	I thank you again for the answer. I think the Minister of Justice is touching on the essentials, namely that there is a full review of what has happened before in relation to equipment, perhaps in relation to methodology, in relation to procedures and everything that makes it possible to prevent any similar incidents afterwards. At the same time, it becomes a general problem for me to think, who does what? In other words, does it make sense for the police themselves to look at their own routines? Is it reasonable that people who are top professionals here should have this responsibility? Would it not have been natural, based on the scale and consequences of the case, that it was already indicated that if there were uncertainties, would an initiative be taken afterwards to establish an independent investigation, precisely in the interests of the public and the confidence the police actually have? My question becomes quite simple: if there were to be elements in the internal evaluations that would require further progress, will the Minister then consider an independent investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1158	That's how confident you either have it or you don't have it. You haven't graduated trust. I think the police trust everyone in Norway to conduct a full investigation. They have the full support of the Government, and I also assume the Stortinges. It is also the case that the police department has my full confidence when they look at aspects of the police's work that are not affected by the investigation. I think the chief of police in Rogaland is acting wisely when he asks someone to look at things that have been criticised. The police director has said that once the investigation has been far enough, when the working group has delivered its conclusions and SEFO has carried out its work, the Police Directorate will look into whether the various issues that have arisen require further review and evaluation. In my opinion, this is an open attitude to constantly learn and evaluate. I agree with that attitude. I have full confidence that the Police Directorate will do it properly. But of course I want to keep close contact with them in the matter, because the seriousness and character of the matter require it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1168	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: «The Government proposes in St.prp. No 42 that the number of persons subject to protection is to be reduced to 9 500 each year. [[2003-2004]] At that time, well under half of young men carry out protective service. Civil service is an alternative for a group that does not implement a protection obligation. Does the Council of State believe that civil service appears as a fair alternative when fewer implement initial service, or will the Council of State take initiatives to promote greater consistency between the provision of first-time service and community service?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1177	The military duty of protection stands in a special position among the burdens that society imposes on its citizens. For individuals, military protection obligations may create a conflict of conscience such as that of society by law of 19 March 1965 No. 3, the so-called military denial law, has taken into account. This law grants the right to refuse military service for reasons of persuasion. The law lays down the conditions for exemption from military service, and only the compulsory teams applying for exemption who fulfil these criteria are granted military denial status and transferred to civil protection. Thus, the Military Rights Act does not intend to make civil protection an alternative to military protection. The civil protection administration shall respect the rights of data subjects under the Military Dispensation Act. The administration will be planned on the basis of the number of conscripted compulsory ratings granted exemption from military service under the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1184	I thank you for your answer. I feel that civil protection duty could be defended as the duty of protection was one that could be called general. So now, the defense needs 9500 of an annual youth coal of about 1 year. 60,000, that's approx. 16 pst. What, in the opinion of the Council of State, will be the greatest disadvantages of possibly eliminating the whole system of civil protection obligations? I understand, of course, that the law has to be removed, etc., but what will be the big disadvantages?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1193	Now it's so far, my acquaintance, not suggested to remove the protective duty. There is one thing in Stortinget about how to organise the defence and the duty of protection, and that means that the principles depend. What's happened in practice, because there's been fewer calls, is that the government already in St.prp. No 1 for 2002-2003 informed the Storting about the conversion of the call for civil protection procedures in line with what happened in the Defence. That is, the coal of the year is called in first. In this way, there has been a natural reconciliation without changing the principles of the law. It is also the case that we will carefully consider whether to make an additional tip in the selection of crews to do community service, but the idea is to wait for a transfer of crews after the Defense has made its selection. If one of the extracts of the defence meets one who has been granted an exemption, it is transferred to the performance of civil service. These must continue to be the basic principles, and we must continue to base the main principles set out in the Long-term Defence Plan, which is being dealt with in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1200	I'm sorry if I said the removal of protective duty, I meant the removal of civil protection duty. Int. S. No 342 for 2000-2001, which was the setting-up of the previous long-term plan, the members of the Defence Committee, all except the Progress Party, showed that one had proposed a third category of protection obligations, namely personnel who could be involved in tasks related to the vulnerability of society, civil humanitarian tasks and today's civil defence. The majority of the Committee asked for an investigation and presentation of the Stortinget during the spring 2002 session. As far as I know, the Storting is still waiting for this investigation. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State when this investigation can be expected to take place in Stortinget, and whether it will perhaps be included in the communication coming on Friday?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1209	It is possible that I have misunderstood myself, or more than that, but I have been of the opinion that we had made assessments of a third category in St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002, where we set out the Government's views. To the extent that we want to go further, we will of course deal with the Storting, but we will also present reflections on civil service related to Vulnerability Notice No. 2, to use the popular expression on it. Then Stortinget will also have the opportunity to assess the matter, when they get it on their table, as previously announced, during May.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1218	‘More than 200 million dividends have been paid since 1998. kr. Only in 6 of 32 cases are some people convicted. 20 of the items are considered unsolved. Heavy armed and highly professional perpetrators don't go off the road to shoot sharp at those who get in their way under the canes. The plumbers carefully monitor how the money is transported and stored. What can the Council of State do to improve and strengthen the procedures and control requirements of banks and other companies transporting and holding large amounts of money?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1225	I look with concern at the increasing trend in the use of gross violence in the implementation of armed robbery against money transport and businesses in Norway. The police have been working closely with the value-added companies and banks for several years. This cooperation is very important to prevent criminal estimates against industry. There is a strong emphasis on good information exchange between industry and the police. The quality of the information exchange is under continuous evaluation. This form of cooperation continues in the police action by means of so-called problem-oriented police work, a proactive approach that improves the police’s ability to take targeted action. The police do not have an authority to instruct banks or value carriers in relation to their internal procedures but make themselves available for guidance on the development of security procedures. In addition, the police are represented in the NSR Business Security Council. This is a central forum for further development of cooperation. Through this cooperation and increased local cooperation, the police are seeking to strengthen the focus on prevention measures. The Directorate of Police reports that the police in several cases have indications that inside information from money institutions has been passed on to criminal networks. This is very worrying. The police are therefore constantly reminded of the importance of thorough recruitment processes. Police are facing major challenges in preventing, detecting and investigating serious organised crime. I have therefore taken the initiative to further strengthen police efforts in this area. Yesterday’s presentation of the revised national budget briefed on the main features of a new organisational solution to strengthen national efforts against serious organised crime. These include: proposed the development of a new, attenuated, special body based on today’s Kripos.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1242	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree with the Council of State that it is the responsibility of the private banks and security companies to ensure that the procedures for the transport of goods are almost watertight. Well, basically, the routines that have been set up will theoretically be that. However, a statistic The evening post presented on 29 April shows that criminals are increasingly using sophisticated and reckless methods to reveal both the practices of the weight companies, and even more worryingly – as yesterday’s Newspaper suggests – almost infiltrates the privacy of policemen in order to reveal police routines if possible. Even more worrying is the fact that deer possess technological equipment that is not even available to the police. Finally, if the money does not work out, normal people will have to pay for lost money through higher insurance and interest. Does the Council of State consider that the State somehow places greater safety requirements on the storage and transport of large monetary values?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1251	I repeat what the police cannot instruct on – I say the police are involved in a cooperation body. I have to add that information about how banks and other companies ensure the storage and transport of money is security sensitive information that I cannot say anything concrete about. It is my general impression that financial institutions and companies responsible for the transport of money are continually going through their security procedures. It's a fact that the criminals are going on the weakest link in the chain. Therefore, efforts are being made to be farsighted, to continuously evaluate safety practices and to provide the necessary preventive measures. Since the security within the bank itself and the financial institution has been improved, it has been found that the banks have moved from the bank premises to the transport facilities in recent years. That is why in this field the safety procedures now need to be evaluated. There is also a focus on the amount of money held in individual financial institutions, which is transported to and from the telephone lines. The policy of banks and other companies has been reducing the amount of cash in recent years. Banks and financial institutions also cooperate with the Security Council of Industry, including: on the security of storage and transport of money. International cooperation takes place within the European Banking Union. Let me finish this by saying: Internally, necessary updates, continuous training of employees and awareness-raising work are provided for prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1262	I thank the Council of State for a very thorough answer. Organised crime is one of the strongest growing industries — unfortunately. Developments in recent years have been worrying. International leagues – under well-discovered companies – operate almost freely in some countries. Countries that do not want control, such as Switzerland, Liechtenstein or the Channel Islands, or countries that do not have the competence to control, such as Ukraine and Belarus, weakening the possibility of combating organised crime. Norway must be a driver internationally against organised and economic crime. However, resources need to be given to the police — in terms of competence, equipment and technical means of revealing this type of crime. Crime costs the Norwegian community more than DKK 50 billion a year, including resources for the judiciary, health damage and any material losses — to mention something. Will not strengthen legal certainty about society’s own guardians — the police, the judiciary and the criminal justice system — be given methods such as: space control and competence and resources to fight, then intelligently, a highly changing crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1273	Now it is a fact that this government and also this Council of States have done a great deal to facilitate the fight against serious organised crime through, among other things, organisation. by the Police Directorate and new police districts and the pointed national unit against serious organised crime referred to in the revised national budget, submitted yesterday. Secondly, we have made sure that new police methods exist. Additional methods presented in an investigation will be consulted in a short time. It is my opinion that we must seriously consider new ways of securing democracy and human rights, and do what we can specifically to prevent and combat terrorism. This will be sent to the hearing, and the Government will deal with it after the hearing has taken place. In the case of specific experience, for example: following the situation in Stavanger, the Police Directorate has set up a working group to be set up by the end of June to look at practical aspects of police security and security in the context of missions. This will continue to be based on having a general, unarmed police force for daily use, but the police must be rusted and secured for special and sharp situations. This work is in full swing. My conclusion is that we're doing a lot. We also need to do what the representative was inside, and we have very strong and close international cooperation, and we attach great importance to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1304	These questions are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1310	This question, from the representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1313	I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘The Debt Victim Alliance makes an invaluable effort for people facing debt problems, both as a spokesman for the victims of the debt and as an important advisory body. However, poor economic performance weakens capacity. In connection with the examination of the State budget, the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee last year confirmed that the Debt victims-Alliansen ‘should be able to apply for grants from the State budget’. However, they have now been refused such an application. Why will the Council of State not support the Debt Victim Alliance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1322	I will then answer the question on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. The role of the Debt Victim Alliance as an interest organisation for the Debt Framework can be of great importance to individuals and in many cases provides valuable assistance to them. I therefore understand that the Debt Victim Alliance wants to increase its financial resources for its operations. It is, however, such that the Ministry has limited resources to use in this field. I therefore consider it most important and most appropriate to give priority to the use of resources on the already existing public aid measures. This applies in particular to work on financial advice in municipalities. From 1993 onwards, the Ministry has been working both to build up and to maintain the municipal advisory service. A number of municipalities now have a well-functioning offer of advice and guidance to people with financial problems. It is also the case that debt problems are often related to other problems. By providing advice within the municipality, effective assistance can also be provided in a number of adjoining areas such as housing, social security, social assistance, care for drug users, assistance to make use of economic rights such as housing support, etc. Thus, together with the negotiator, who administers the Debt Scheme Act, the financial advisory service of municipalities constitutes an overall offer for persons with financial problems. I have also found it a concern to provide operating support to the Debt Victim Alliance, given that in any case part of the organisation's operations may be considered legal assistance. The law imposes certain formal requirements on the operator of such activities. According to the law, it is in practice only the public and lawyers and authorised legal agents who can do this. In addition, the application does not indicate the measures for which the Debt Victim Alliance wishes to use the funds, and it is therefore difficult to decide on such a general application. Following an overall assessment, the Minister for Children and Family therefore rejected the application for support from the Debt Victim Alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1337	It is right, as the Council of State points out, that indebtedness advice is also a municipal responsibility. Unfortunately, it has been found that the resource situation is often so poor that people have been referred to, for example: The Debt Victim Alliance from the Municipal Councillors. I think it would be foolish for us to draw a distinction between the municipal counseling and what is going to be the debt victims' own stakeholder organisation, and the importance of getting a debt-sacrifice organization on their own. I am quite told that we are repeatedly getting these fights between the Stortinget and the Ministry of Children and Family on the question of the victims of the debt. We have just had a similar case in terms of living rates. It is clear that the Stortinget and the Committee have to come with leaders in very clear letters in order for the department to take note of it. I think what has happened here is not to follow up on the leadership that has been posted from Stortinget. Besides that, I don't think it's necessary to ask any follow-up questions to the State Council, Clmet – we'll have to take it with Davøy. I promise to come back to this in connection with the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1346	Of course, I'm going to pass this on to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, but I remind you that what the Committee has said is that this organisation should be able to ‘apply for grants’ under the heading. 865, and so has the organisation. Operational aid has now been applied for and operating aid is not granted under this item, but it has the opportunity to provide funds for actions and projects in line with the budget decision of the Stortingen. This is partly due to a resource reason, as I explained. Further fragmentation of resources can make them even smaller in many ways. I also point out that there are some formal reasons here for providing indebted advice, which only some people have the opportunity to provide, under the laws and regulations in this area. But I will bring the comments from the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1354	My question goes to the Minister of Education and Research: ‘23. April is World Book Day. This year the Learning Centre marked the day by the fact that all the country's 6th and 7th grades received a check-up that could be redeemed into the nearest bookstore. However, it turned out that the box check only applied to printed books and that students who can only use audio books or electronic books could not avail themselves of the gift of the year. What initiative will the Council of State take towards the Learning Centre, so that all the 6th and 7th grades next year can enjoy a book on the next book day?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1363	In the question, Gunn Olsen's representative refers to the World Book Day, which was April 23, and the marking that took place by the fact that all sixth and seventh grade students received a boxing check. The idea of a «book for all» was launched at the Learning Centre of the Book Dealers Association in September 2003, as part of the «Gi Rom for reading» strategy. Despite very short planning periods, the Learning Centre and the Book Dealers Association jointly managed to realize this as part of World Book Day April 23. The Norwegian Children's Book Institute assisted in the selection of six books that were to be given as an accountant to students at 6th and 7th class stages. The books were then to be printed in a pocket version and were produced and distributed to the bookstores by the beginning of April of this year. There was a requirement that one of the books should be easy to read, one should be in Nynorsk, the books should be of newer date, have catching content and fit for both boys and girls. The books were printed in a total of 145,000 copies. Besides going to 120,000 sixth and seventh grade students, one set of all books has gone to 3,265 primary school libraries. The bookstores have covered half of the cost of the action and the Learning Centre the other half. The 6th and 7th stage student boxing initiative has been a pilot project. It is therefore important to consider how the initiative has been received. The bookstore association will gather views on how it has worked from the bookstore side, and the Learning Centre will retrieve views from schools. They will then examine whether this is an action that should be repeated. If they both consider it positive and appropriate for repetition, they will consider any changes or adjustments that may be necessary. The Book Dealers Association has stated to the Learning Centre that it appears that the scheme has not worked according to the intentions for 0.4 pst. by the students. This will be considered by the Book Dealers Association. With regard to the ratio of the box check to the printed book only, the Learning Centre and the Book Dealers Association will make the offer available next year also to those groups that need audiobooks or electronic books. This will be achieved through cooperation with the Audio and Braille Library. This year, all 6th and 7th grade students have received a book. I hope that this has been a pleasure for the students, that it helps to stimulate the interest in reading, and that it can come in the last 0.4 pst. for the benefit of the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1382	I thank the Council of State for a good answer, and I am very pleased with it. I think the book-checking initiative is very good; to stimulate children and young people to read we are very busy. What was particularly painful about the fact that the blind and partially sighted people did not receive this check-in, was that the Stortinget the day after the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2002–03 on the reduction of disability barriers. It was an example that kind of illustrated how far we really have to go. But then I trust the Council of State, so that this is corrected in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1387	This is part of a very comprehensive strategy to strengthen literacy and literacy in Norwegian school, a strategy that contains a number of measures, one of which was therefore. I hope that the evaluation will show that this is a good measure. Of course, I fully agree with the representative here that it should be possible for all students to benefit, even if they cannot read printed paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1395	This question, from Bendiks H. Arnesen's representative to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1398	I have a question that I understand the Minister for Fisheries is right to answer: «In Trondheim is a coastal and port laboratory. The laboratory is the only one in its kind in Norway and is at the top international in terms of competence in its area. In Europe today there are three alternatives to this laboratory. We have now received signals that this laboratory is in danger of being shut down due to it. non-financing. Norway is a coastal nation. What will the Council of State do to enable this important laboratory and environment of competence in Trondheim to be maintained and developed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1407	The characteristics of this environment in Trondheim as being among the highest, I'm fully committed to it. The coastal and port laboratory is an organisational part of the coastal and marine engineering department of the SINTEF unit SINTEF Fisheries and aquaculture. SINTEF is an economically and administratively independent foundation. Sintef receives basic and basic appropriations from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. In addition, the SINTEF Fisheries and Aquaculture Unit receives a basic allocation from the Ministry of Fisheries. SINTEF Fisheries and aquaculture finance the Coastal and Port Laboratory through mission research for public and private customers, through competitive funding from the Research Council and the EU Framework Programmes for Research and through basic funding. The University of Technology of Norway, NTNU, is currently using the laboratory for research and teaching activities. The sector principle is a fundamental principle in the organisation of Norwegian research policies. The principle is that each department is responsible for funding research in and for its own sector. Thus, the activities of the Coastal and Port Laboratory fall within the sectoral responsibility of the Ministry of Fisheries. The Ministry of Fisheries has discussed the matter with the Norwegian Research Council in the past. We have also been involved in the matter in relation to the situation that has now arisen. The economic problems of the Coastal and Port Laboratory are due to the failure of the market for the services provided by the laboratory. This applies to both public and private customers. On the other hand, the coastal facility is one of the laboratory’s most important customers, but in recent years it has reduced its missions in line with reduced port and fairway development activities. The port laboratory has a high competence and does a good job – there is no doubt about it. However, I cannot find a basis or room for exceptional financial support for the Port Laboratory in addition to the basic allocation given to SINTEF Fisheries and Aquaculture and the actual services still purchased by the Coastal Plant from the laboratory. The scientific assessment of the Research Council is that there will also be no prioritisation of exceptional funds for the activities of the laboratory. Sintef can, of course, apply for ordinary funding from the research programme. The main objective of SINTEF is to carry out research missions for business and management. It is primarily SINTEF that must take responsibility for the operation of the laboratory. It will not be the responsibility of the State to maintain the establishment if there is no market for the services provided by the laboratory.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1422	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We agree, because I understand, that the coastal zone is central to the creation of value added, and that much is happening in the future that requires a high level of competence in this area. What worries me is that we might lose such an important environment of competence at a time when we really need help developing the coast and the coastal zone. So I think it's a little weird that there's at all uncertainty about this lab's future, because if it's a little bit less mission right now. What is needed here is a basic funding for research. According to his response, can the Council of State influence SINTEF to earmark the means to maintain this laboratory?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1431	From the point of view of the port authorities and the ministry, it is desirable that we have this competence. We have been in contact with both the Research Council and other environments, and we must note that the interest in funding in addition to the basic appropriations and assignments that are being given today is not a basis for this. We have reviewed our forecasts in the Coastal Directorate and found that for a future decade we are seeing that we want to have assignments at the laboratory for approx. One million. kr per year, and then in addition any model tests that may carry out tasks of between 4 million and 10 million. kr. According to SINTEF and the laboratory, it is not sufficient for them to believe to be able to continue it in its form. Besides that, I have no promises to make, except that Sintef will be able to apply for funding from the Research Council, from the Framework Programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1440	I pray, as strongly as I can, the Council of State to follow this closely, because the signals actually go on that one must start to cancel people at the lab already now, and I think that's disturbing. I think, from the signal given by the Council of State, that you can try to apply for funds, so that they can use their competence to research new things within the coastal zone. But I have to say that I am disappointed that you cannot go in with any means and secure this competence, which is the only one in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1445	I just want to stress that this is a situation created by a lack of demand, and that this is also a consequence of the completion of the major port expansions, and that in recent times we have not invested to the same extent in new ports where model testing has been a prerequisite. We have been in contact with SINTEF, we have been in contact with different environments, as I said, but we note that SINTEF last week informed the trade unions that it can come up with permits in the laboratory.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1455	I have the following questions: ‘There is now an impact study on the construction of alternative routes to Bergen port with a calculation of 149 million. kr excl. VAT The price is significantly lower than that assumed over many years. It is also shown that the study of the project, in the context of the construction of Askøybrua as originally foreseen, is socially viable. The task of KU has been given by the Ministry of Fisheries. How will the Council of State monitor the progress of the project in order to build alternative routes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1464	I am very concerned about the sailing trail and the conditions associated with Bergen, not least from a travel life perspective, and this is of course a significant concern about future cruise traffic. The study of alternative routes to Bergen has been presented as the ‘Alternative fairway to Bergen’ project. The background to my decision in March 2002 that the Swedish Coastal Agency should develop a more comprehensive pre-project than had been done in the past was the desire for a good basis for a decision in the case. When the main plan for Askøybrua was approved by the Directorate of Road in 1986, the requirement was to establish an alternative sailing path across the Herdlaflaket and through the Nau. This option has then proved to be inappropriate because of protection interests. It is in the preliminary project that has now been submitted that a clear-altitude route has been established via Skelelangersundet. The background for this is that ships over 62 metres cannot sail under Askøybrua. Consequently, large vessels will benefit from this member. The cost of deepening and securing the member is estimated at 149 million. excluding VAT, as also referred to in the question. With VAT, it amounts to 180 million. DKr, and VAT-based money must be granted. The cost calculation has been carried out at pre-project level with considerable uncertainty, plus/minus 25 pst. Bergen is of great importance as a hub and attraction for cruise traffic to Norway – there is no doubt about that. However, the number of calls of ships of the size concerned is low. Other traffic of large ships will continue to be referred to the fairway under Askøybrua. For the pre-project, an impact assessment and a regulatory plan have been prepared for the action sent to the consultation of relevant authorities and consultation partners, so we have started the process. The results of this consultation are expected to be considered together with proposals for the regulation of the investigated solution during 2004. I will, before I conclude more, await the examination of the matter, and I will return to Stortinget with a further follow-up in connection with the draft budget submitted for the autumn. Whether we have come so far that we can draw conclusions, it is too early to say, but at least I will come back to the Storting with a report on the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1483	I thank you for your answer. I would also like to stress that initiatives that the Council of State has taken in the past to get the matter out of the water, I consider very positive. However, in response to written questions about this in November 2003, last year, the Council of State replied, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The framework is now at the end of the work on the pre-project. The status of work will be described in the 2006-2015 National Transport Plan, which is promoted by the European Parliament in spring 2004. – ‘The case will be submitted to Stortinget in an appropriate manner after the completion of the pre-project’. So there's still to be clarification of the Council's response. Is it so that when this case and this project are not mentioned in the NTP – because it is not – it does not mean that the project has been bombed in any way, but that it is about a delay, and that it will come to Stortinget as a clear case and in a suitable way to get a final treatment against realization?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1497	The progress of this new investigation and its thoroughness made it impossible to complete the work before NTP was sent to Stortinget. I did not find it natural to explain this matter when we did not have the new basis, which we had all agreed would be there. We've started the process. I will come back to the Storting in the budget for 2005 and explain in as thorough a manner as possible at that time. When it comes to appropriations, I have to wait for the budgetary procedure to come up with a more concrete response.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1504	I noticed in the Council of State summary of the history of this project, which unfortunately is very long, that it was a prerequisite for the construction of the Ashøy Bridge that you should also get a sailing trail. I would like the Council of State to confirm that it is perceived as a prerequisite, and that in relation to the assumption, which is about two projects, there is actually a lack of implementation of one.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1509	The background that I have taken care of this matter and come as far as this is the history. I think we have a common experience of that. In the case of any solution with extensions and appropriations, the Storting must enter the picture. There will be balances in the individual budgets, and I assume that the representative Sortevik agrees with me that I am not alone in deciding. This whole house should be on it. So now let's do the preliminary work that I think the case is well served, so that we don't go into a new set of investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1519	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘From 1 July 2004, BaneService will be separated from the Railway Agency to a separate limited liability company. Will BaneService AS bring the necessary equipment/machinery from the Railway Works such as transfers of production department in the State Road Service to Mesta AS?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1528	I refer you to St.prp. No 62 for 2003–2004, which was promoted on 7 May this year, including the following: has been briefed on the work on the competitive outsourcing of the production activities of the Railway Agency. It appears that the Government provides for a comprehensive and comprehensive review of how all parts of the railway works’ production activities should be organised and put out to competition. The government will await such a review before the BaneService is converted into a limited liability company and therefore does not intend to convert the BaneService business unit into a limited liability company on 1 July 2004. In the case of a conversion of BaneService into a limited liability company, the company will be transferred the necessary machinery, equipment and personnel. The Ministry of Transport will come back to the case in the context of the 2005 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1533	I thank you for your answer. While we are waiting for the AS model, which is exposed, both the National Association of Construction and the NHO have pointed out that the few companies that currently have sufficient knowledge and machines to compete with the Railway Agency are struggling because the Railway Agency has completely stopped placing construction work/maintenance on the market. Most people say that they will go bankrupt in a few months and at the latest in the autumn. Will the State Council ensure that the operation of the Railway Agency is fully competitive, in line with the Sem Declaration and previous decisions taken by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1542	Based on Stortinget’s comments and the extensive work done by the Railway Agency and the Board of BaneService AS, the Department wishes to step up its competitive activities at the Railway Agency. The Ministry is now working on an overall review of the organisation of all parts of the production activities of the Railway Agency and a timetable for the gradual launching of the production activities. This is a work that is in progress, which we are going to continue with, and which we are going to come back to in the 2005 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1547	I am very pleased that the Council of State will expose parts of the operation to competition, but she says she will do it step by step. Unfortunately, the railway works have gone the other way. In the 1990s, more and more were exposed to competition, and this was also the case at the beginning of this millennium. But in recent years, things have still gone the opposite way. Will the Council of State take care to correct this bias, which now makes us go backwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1554	It is clear that the signals from us are that we want the outsourcing of operational and maintenance tasks. It's at the bottom, and it's going to happen in the future. So that's how we do this because we're going to get more railways left for the money we spend in this sector. But then I want to stress that it requires that we actually spend money on the railways, as this government goes in for, but for which the Progress Party may not be as familiar. I would like to remind you that it is not that long since we have had budgetary reviews where the Progress Party may not have wanted to prioritise the railway as high as the Government. And it's not that long since it was pronounced by the Progress Party that they wanted to put down the Bergensbanen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1559	Question 17 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1565	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘The use of arrest is the most severe instrument of punishment that the Defence can use when individuals neglect military service obligations. Arrests may be imposed for up to 20 days and may include, inter alia: used in cases of illegal absence, intoxication and disrespectful behaviour. The form of punishment can be experienced as a mental impression for those concerned. Will the Council of State ensure that an evaluation of the use of the arrest in the defence is carried out, with the aim of replacing this type of punishment with other and more appropriate means of punishment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1574	The use of the arrest as a remedy in the Defence is governed by Norwegian law, namely the Military Disciplinary Authority Act of 20 May No. 32 1988, known as disciplinary legislation. The Chief of Defence’s guidance on the measurement of penalties shows that the arrest should be reserved for serious disciplinary offences, for example, in the event of acts of violence or prolonged illegal absence from the military service. This means that the residue as a remedy will not normally be used in more common disciplinary offences, such as: intoxication or disrespectful behaviour. Guard detention, as part of the Military Disciplinary System, has long traditions as a remedy in the Defense, and is closely associated with military criminal law as one of several means of maintaining the discipline of the Defence. If we had not had a watchdog as a remedy in the defense, the option would have been that several cases had to be sent to the prosecution authority with a request for criminal prosecution and civil conviction. In my opinion, it is not preferable, as military guard remains in response must be regarded as far less burdensome for individuals than civilian punishment. One of the benefits for the person concerned is, inter alia: the imposition of military custody is not recorded in the civil criminal record. The penalty shall be applied only to his military scrolls. The use of watchdog residue by the defence is in line with the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights. The detainee shall be removed from the arrest and shall participate in the daily service. Similarly, the arrestee, if he or she wishes to do so, is given the opportunity to be taken out of the arrest for one increase on Saturdays. In addition, the arrester is given an opportunity to attend church or equivalent on Sundays and public holidays. I would also like to point out that the Chief of Defence, who is responsible for the use of the penalties in the defence, is well pleased with the way in which the Rules of Distinction are managed. The Defence Manager therefore sees no reason to modify the current provisions in this area. Nor has the Advocate General proposed or taken any initiative before the Ministry of Defence to abolish the remainder of the watch as a remedy in the defence. For information, I can inform you that the Advocate General for 2002 registered 1,989 penalties, of which only 5,3 p.m. was determined with watchdog residue. Sentinel detention, or ‘cakebua’, which may be a more well-known concept for most, is an established, efficient and well-controlled method of punishment in the Defence. I therefore see no reason to initiate a change in disciplinary law with a view to abolishing the regime of security in the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1591	Most of us have heard of the cakebua, at least those of us who read Stomperud, have recorded that he is still away unfortunate and ends up in the cakebua. This is something that has existed for many years, but there is no reason to say that you should continue with it. What worries me is that some people can see it as mentally burdensome to be arrested for relatively minor offenses. Other criminal methods could be found that do not allow some to have mental problems. That's the main background for me addressing this question. I'm sitting with a travel letter from a 42-year-old man – a travel letter from the Værnes cakebua, where he sat for 12 days because he wouldn't earn the rehearsal exercise. When he tells how he experienced it, I think that young people between the ages of 19 and 21 will be able to experience it as stressful if they have facilities to wear a little psychologically. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State again whether she does not see that some people may suffer mental problems during such a stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1598	I can live up to the fact that it will be burdensome to be arrested, whether it is in military arrest, or piebu, or civil. But I would like to stress that the practice is not to use watchtower as a remedy for ordinary disciplinary offences. It is particularly linked to acts of violence or longer illegal absence from military service. As long as we have military service and duty to perform repetition exercises, it is important that there are sanctions that hold it in claim. The alternative would be to get a civil case, to go to civil authorities. I am not sure if the load on it would be anything smaller, on the contrary, it would probably take longer and in addition attach the scroll to the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1603	I record that the Council of State and I disagree on the need for a review. I still believe that an evaluation should be initiated and whether other and more appropriate methods could be found. But it's always been in politics -- there's someone who's had to fight to get rid of the gap stick, you've fought to get rid of witch burns, and you've fought to get rid of a lot of things. We who believe that this is an old-fashioned way of punishing people get to follow this fight further. Then the Council of State will consider taking inward some of the views that this is an old-fashioned way of doing it, perhaps it should be assessed, and perhaps it will come to the conclusion that there is time to assess other types of criminal practices. But I thank the Council of State so much for the answer and I wish her every success in the work, both with the cakebu and other things in the defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1608	Thank you for the congratulations. The questioner is quite right that there are nuances between different parties at Stortinget in relation to the use of punishment and arrest. But I would like to stress that here it is my belief that the use of watchdogs is actually a milder punishment than if we were to use the civil system, and that gives us shorter waiting time for the individual. We must have some sanctions in relation to violence or non-violence. It is important for us to be able to maintain the duty of protection and give it real substance. But I can guarantee to the questioner that this will happen within the framework of the guidelines of the Human Rights Commission, and that the Advocate-General will be used as he is supposed to be used, as an inspector, so that you do not abuse this sanction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1618	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘HV soldiers receive per d.d. non-divisional allowance after completion of initial training, such as other soldiers receive after first-time service. The Council of State sees this difference as a problem, and in that case what will the Council of State do to get more equality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1627	All soldiers serving first-time service are receiving a dispensation allowance today. The system of disbursement means that soldiers who are transferred to the Home Office or who, for various reasons, interrupt their initial service, for example in the event of a disease, are paid a disbursement for the number of days spent in the service. In the past, however, there have been different schemes. From 1 July 1976 until 1 January 1992 we had daily rates, and the dispensation allowance was paid for the number of days spent in service. At the end of the 1992 deadline, there was a scheme in which no disbursement was paid for three months of military service, i.e. personnel transferred to HV and half-dimitment compensation for duty from three to six months. In addition to six months of service, full disbursement was also paid at the time. This mechanism was repealed by the reintroduction of the day-to-day principle from 1 July 2001. This was in line with the instruments recommended by the Committee on Defence Policy, namely that with the longest absence from civil life they would receive the most compensation. As a status-enforcement measure, this government has initiated an adjustment of the dispensation allowance for staff with 12 months’ service. These received an increase of 1500 kroner on 1 January this year. The government also provides for a further adjustment to the disbursement allowance of NOK 15 000 in the next year's budget for soldiers with 12 months' service, as stated in St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004, to be discussed by the Defence Committee and the Stortinget. As a result of the Government's proposal to increase the disbursement allowance, the current rate of those serving less than 12 months is also increasing. However, the fact that the distribution allowance is paid proportionately, depending on the length of the service, is an established principle, which I support.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1651	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a complementary and far-reaching answer to the question of what has happened in the back, and what will happen in the future. There is no doubt that it is important, for example, to: the distribution allowance is increasing. After all, not many people are in the Defence Agency anymore, and therefore the dispensation allowance is a state-of-the-art measure. The reason why I'm asking this question is that I want the most possible equality and preferably the same equality in terms of economics, between those who earn HV service, and those who earn – let's call it – the usual military service. I've seen some reactions from those who go to the education center for HV, that they feel lost because they don't now get the increase of NOK 1500 that ordinary soldiers get. It is on the basis of what I have asked the question, and I want the Council of State to elaborate a little bit more on the condition of the HV soldiers when, among other things, it does. the distribution allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1662	I would first like to stress the consensus with the questioner that implementing status-raising measures for those who actually implement the military is important. It's actually going to be an important way of recruiting the best in the military, and it's also really important with study credits and a meaningful service, that you don't go around, but you have something interesting to do, which is also useful in the future work life. Secondly, I would like to say that in the increase proposed by the Government in the case that is being dealt with in the Storting, there is also an increase for those who are serving the duty of protection in the Home Office. But of course, the increase will be greater for those who take a twelve-month ministry than for those who take a six-month ministry or a three-month ministry, simply because they are several days away from civil life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1669	I thank the Council of State for deepening this matter. Now that we know that there is a big deal ahead of us in the Committee and in the Storting, about the reduction of the number of soldiers both in the common defence and within the HV, it is clear that it is an important matter that we get equality for those who use their time to serve first-time service, and also for HV, where you stay longer in the future. But if the Council of State, as I understand it, promises that there is a similarity between one who earns HV service, and one who earns ordinary military service, if one can use that word, I'm satisfied with the answer, and that's what I wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1676	We fully agree that there will be an increase in the disbursement allowance for all the groups that deserve protection, but with the clarification that it will, of course, be that those who are 12 months behind are given a relatively larger increase in the disbursement allowance than those who earn six months or three months.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1684	I have asked the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘More Norwegian departments have extensive cooperation with the Baltic countries. Can the Councils give an overview of the cooperation between the Ministry of Defence and the defence of the Baltic States, focusing in particular on any cooperation aimed at preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1693	I would like to confirm to the questioner that Norway has very extensive defence-related cooperation with the Baltic countries. That list is so long that I don't have time in my response to frame up everything, but I'm going to draw out something. I want to exemplify our work in saying that it embraces a great deal, and it involves cooperation between the departments, the defence sectors, the National Security Authority and the Defence Research Institute. Norway’s support in the defence sector has included personnel and environmental conditions, seminars on budgetary and long-term planning and transparency against the media. Support has also contributed to prevention security, host country support, training in winter warfare and officer training. I would also like to point out that since 1997, Norway has been leading a multi-national project to develop an integrated air surveillance system in the Baltic countries for both civil and military aviation. Today, NATO's defence with a temporary air traffic control unit is contributing to the Baltic region in order to ensure military air traffic control in the countries. Another important area in which Norway has contributed is the development of the ability of the Baltic countries to mine and explosive remediation. Norwegian support has gone to the establishment of a Latvian mining and explosive cleaning school and a Baltic mining diving school, which also gives the Baltic an opportunity to contribute important things to the alliance. Norway has also donated significant surplus material. Ten former Norwegian maritime vessels are still operating in the Baltic Operational Service. Six advisers and instructors are permanently stationed in the Baltic countries, and Baltic officers are in Norway for longer educational and training purposes. In addition, as a known spread of infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis is a challenge. Several Norwegian departments have established cooperation with the Baltic countries on the control of infectious diseases. This work has been coordinated by the Ministry of Health, not by the Ministry of Defence. However, I would like to point out that in 2002, the Ministry of Health, with the participation of the Defence Department, conducted a seminar in Oslo on the control of infectious diseases in the armed forces of the Baltic countries. This seminar provided the basis for the cooperation between the civil and military authorities of the Baltic countries to control the spread of infectious diseases in the armed forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1712	I am quite pleased with the answer. I think this is so important that we should focus even more on it. I would like to point out that from 1998 to 2002, the defense had a project in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania called ‘NORBALTPERS’ — The defence is known by abbreviations — with advice in human resources policy to modernise the military system in these countries. This was a success, as far as I know. In particular, as a result of the project, a trusteeship scheme was put in place for guardians in these countries. Based on what the Council of State has said about the potential for spreading infectious diseases, I would like to ask whether this is a methodology that can also be used to disseminate knowledge and competence on how to control infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1721	As Minister of Defence, I feel that there is little outside my constitutional responsibility when we start talking about the spread of infectious diseases. But at least I can point out that in the work I referred to, which was run by the Ministry of Health, and where the Ministry of Defence also contributed, probably the good cooperation we had on the military side, was an entrance gate for the Ministry of Health to organise a seminar and contribute to the Baltic countries' own plan to combat and control HIV/AIDS. To the extent that this can be an example of how to use an overall defence concept in Norway, namely, through cooperation between military and civil units, even outside the borders of the country, I am absolutely in favour of it. Then it is important to use the invading ports we have to achieve good results also on the responsibilities of other ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1728	It is not only HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis spreading in post-Soviet areas, but also syphilis, which everyone thought had been suppressed as a disease. That means that this is pretty serious, and when you have large, protective groups, it's an instance where it's actually possible to do something about this. So I would ask the Minister of Defence to bring up with his colleague in the Ministry of Health that once the Baltic countries have now become EU members, Norway should be able to continue to play a role in the fight against the spread of infectious diseases. The defence, including compulsory officers, is an instance, an accumulation of people, in which it is important to address this type of prevention of infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1735	Now I think I'm moving even further into the constitutional territory of another state council. It was launched enough a disease that is serious, but I will not give up to be an expert on. But I take seriously the intention of the questioner: because in the defence sector, we have such good cooperation between Norway and the Baltic countries, we have a special approach, based on mutual trust. We have been one of the countries that has been the earliest to help the new NATO countries adapt to the challenge they face. To the extent that the Minister of Health wants to know how to use this network, we will, of course, assist, and I will convey the concern and commitment of the questioner to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1742	That sounds good. Question 21 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1750	‘Despite the stable high level of unemployment, Aetat in Oslo and Akershus is now reporting that they will adjust the level of action in the second half of the year. They justify this, among other things. with the addition of more vacancies in the area. There is little link between the professional and educational background of those who have been declared unemployed and many have been unemployed for some time and the advertised jobs. Has the Council of State come up with any ideas on how to bring them into the labour market with the weakest starting point without action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1757	Following its accession in the autumn of 2001, the Government has implemented comprehensive measures to improve the labour market situation. In particular, I would like to emphasise that we are pursuing a responsible economic policy that strengthens the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. This is the most important thing we can do to reduce unemployment and strengthen employment. We see the results of this policy. We see improvements in the Norwegian economy. Employment is in a cautious improvement. We must be allowed to see that the bottom has been reached. We're on our way up, even though it's going gently and slowly. In no way is the job done. In particular, it is gratifying that it is in competitive activities, in industry and construction, the growth of employment is now coming. It gives cause for cautious optimism. The reduction of unemployment and the strengthening of employment must be addressed by a broad strategy. Action sites are important, but the number of action sites and sites is hardly a good target in themselves. The aim must be to help people without work back to work as quickly as possible, and it must include instruments that go beyond the scope of action. The Government and the Minister of Labour and Administration are very concerned about assisting those who face the greatest challenges of entering the labour market during an unemployment period. This is particularly true where Aetat has to put in a wide range of instruments, and so does Aetat. We have behind us a period when the employees of Aetat have increased their authority. We've been through a period when those who meet the unemployed in Aeta's offices have been given more opportunity to set up the measures individually. It is an important tool for increasing the number of jobseekers and is particularly beneficial to those with the greatest challenges in the labour market. This is a development I want to continue. I trust that the individual employee in Aetat uses the increased freedom to find the best solutions, which will be of great importance not least to those who face the greatest challenges of entering the labour market. Our follow-up to the disabled was also confirmed in the revised national budget yesterday, where we prioritised the group of disabled people and organised 750 new action places. Equally important is that we give Aetat resources that make an individual follow-up possible. So we give priority to those groups that have the biggest challenges in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1772	The strength mentioned by the Minister of Labour is, of course, resources that in their time were in the State of Social Security and are now transferred. There is therefore really no strengthening of the actions to be taken by this group. Despite what the Minister of Labour here says, that one has tried to strengthen Aetat, and despite the fact that one has improved access to jobs, there is actually as high unemployment in Oslo and Akershus as in the past. More than 34 000 are still out of work in this area. It is precisely the measures that have proved to be a bridge for many unemployed people into the labour market. In this way, is it not somewhat worrying that the revised budget now actually weakens labour market measures, which should have helped the unemployed into the labour market again?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1781	I can calmly and probably delight the representative Hildeng to inform us that the effort we put into the revised national budget of 85 million. kr, is in addition to the resources transferred by Aetat from the Rikstrøgdenverket. This means that the 160 jobs in the Aetat and the 750 new response sites are fresh resources, which are in addition to the resources with which the Aetat was strengthened through the transfers from the Rikstrøgdeverket. This will make Aetat much better able to follow the individual out of work, and it will ensure that we not only help people get out of work, but also, through individual follow-up, ensure that they remain in sustainable income-bearing work. This is why the Government’s warning of a great deal of bet yesterday was very important for the most vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1788	Despite this, there is a deficit in the budgets in Oslo. This is why they reduce the number of intervention sites. Will the Minister of Labour follow this up and ensure that Oslo and Akershus are provided with sufficient funds to have the same level of action as they have had in the first half of this year? They will also need this level of intervention in the next six months, because they are unable to reduce the number of unemployed. That's the same thing as before, even though you've done a lot of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1793	The labour market situation in Oslo and Akershus is clearly improving, as in the rest of the country. The number of jobs announced in the first quarter of 2004 is 27 pst. higher than in the first quarter of 2003. The law of the labour market in Oslo and Akershus has been familiar with the framework within which it has to work, both for the first half of 2004 and probably for the second half of 2004. I have full confidence that Aetat locally itself dimensiones the measures rationally in relation to fluctuations in the labour market, unemployment and employment. I also trust that Aetat himself will find a reasonable and correct dimensioning. We present in the revised budget proposals on the same number of action places for the second half of the year as we proposed in the national budget, despite the fact that the employment situation has been forecast to improve in the second half of the year. I therefore assume that the number of action areas is well-dimensional in relation to the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1802	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-12.ana.ud1550e1813	There is no record.
