ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e32	The representative Per Ove Wideth, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The called alternate of Akershu County, Dagfinn Sundsbø, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e45	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e50	I suggest Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e55	Ranveig Frøiland is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Ranveig Frøiland is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e74	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party 10 minutes each, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e85	Int. S. No 124 for 2003-2004, which was set up by the Committee on Transport on the activities of Posten Norge AS, it is a group of commuting committees that say that the Post has been an important part of the infrastructure that has made it possible to maintain a spread of bus services throughout the country. It has also been a common understanding that the Post Office's basic services should be equivalent to all and at the same price throughout the country. A comprehensive committee points out that postal services will still be an important part of the basic infrastructure in the country. I am very pleased that a joint committee is so clear that the Post Norway AS has an important role to play in the infrastructure of the country. There is also a joint committee that says that the Post has had a clear social responsibility, and that there is a broad commitment to retaining the Post as part of the social services that the whole country is going to benefit from. At the same time, the Committee is aware that the Post is facing major challenges with today’s postal market, including: with a view to liberalising the letter market and structural changes. The Committee agrees with the Ministry of Transport that the liberalisation of the postal sector should not weaken universal service provision but, on the contrary, contribute to the improvement of postal services throughout the country. The users of traditional mail services should also be guaranteed good and reasonable mail services in the future. There is also a joint committee that emphasises that the Post's board should have a long-term focus on the enterprise's core tasks. It is important that this focus is maintained in a process of further efficiencies and conversion. The Norge AS item has seen its overarching objectives for the operation during the planning period. After the Post’s own assessment, there will still be a need for more efficiency since the desired effect has not yet been achieved. However, the Committee is concerned that this should not affect the societal requirements for country-wide postal services that the Posten has. There is also a joint committee that shows that in the conversion work that has been done and that will be carried out in the post in the future, it is important how the enterprise manages it internally and how the Post takes care of its employees. The extensive shifts that have been made have had an impact on the situation of many added workers, and more employees will notice new efficiency processes in the future. It is therefore crucial that the processes are carried out in collaboration with those added to an open process, and that the Post follows up those who are affected by the conversion measures in the best possible way. In recent years, the post has had a very high sick leave and a large number of mishaps. Although speech has shown a flare, priority must be given to reducing sick leave and the number of disability benefits. This also means that there is reason to stress the importance of taking care of the additives. The post must carry out conversions in such a way that the enterprise can be seen as an attractive job where it is both a good working environment and a central goal to give them the opportunity to develop. This is the basis for recruiting and keeping staff with the right skills. Leiningen i Posten Norge AS and representatives of them added their organisation Postkom pointed out in the hearing of the Committee on Transport on St.meld. No 11 that it could be unfortunate that the Post must do relatively detailed things for its strategic plans and assessments through the so-called Section 10 messages. The Committee understands that this may be problematic as the Post is increasingly exposed to competition. The Committee therefore asks the Government to assess the level of detail of the message. However, the Committee decides that the provision of Section 10 notification should continue. The Government's task is therefore to find the balance between a Section 10 message that does not provide the Post's competitors with detailed insight into the Post's strategic plans and assessments, and the Storting's need for a message that allows them to assess and record an important part of the infrastructure. What I have said so far in my post shows that there is a group committee that is behind many of the comments in the Inn. S. No 124 for 2003-2004. A single committee emphasises the great value of the Post as part of the infrastructure, and is aware that the Post has a social responsibility and through the concession is required to perform equivalent services throughout the country. The users of the Post must be very good mail services at competitive prices. Cost savings within the Posten’s activities should not affect the services imposed by society. The Committee is aware that not all the activities of the Post are imposed by the concession will be able to meet strict remuneration requirements. However, it is important that these services are also provided in such a way that the company may at any time offer a good nationwide offer. Although the Committee is converging on a number of important fundamental comments on the Post, the Committee shares some important points. I want to use the rest of my post on these areas, and focus on the Center Party's position. I expect representatives of the other party to do their best for their positions. The Central Party has a note with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left in which we express concern that the Post Norway AS, as the responsible for important infrastructure in the country, is at risk of being reliant as a result of an additional liberalisation of the postal market. In line with the concession, the Post Norway AS will provide good equivalent services throughout the country. At the same time, commercial operations are required if the market is to be opened up to competition through the EU postal directive. The concern of the three parties is that these requirements may not be harmonized. The transmission requirements are another point where the Committee is divided. The Committee agrees that it is positive that the national average item is well above the 85 pst concession requirement. linked to the delivery of A-mail overnight. But when, for example, for Finnmark is only 40 pst. Of the A mail arriving overnight, the difference between different parts of the country is too large. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party believe that the big difference in the delivery time of the post-regions is not acceptable. Of course, it is positive that the entire committee believes it must continue to work to reduce the delivery time of the counties where the delivery percentage is lowest, but the three notable parties believe that when individual states in the delivery percentage reach less than half of the national average, it is necessary to be more precise than a single committee has been. So we have a proposal to ask the Government to work to ensure that the concession requirement that applies to the national average also applies to the A-item in and between the regions. The later time, almost the last year in fact, there has been a strong focus on postage on magazines and newspapers. In the past, the Post has taken account of its contents when setting a postage for newspapers and magazines. This has been part of the social responsibility that the Posten has carried out, and so Norway has been able to pass on a wide selection of meaningful newspapers. Now that one has gone away from the content criterion when setting leaf postage, this will lead to a sharp increase in newspaper and leaf postage, at worst an increase of up to 75 pst. over a few years. For many local viewers this will be a cost the papers cannot live with, and the risk of closure is great. Other questions from, for example: The centre party of the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Transport to find solutions for hard-hit newspapers has not led to anything concrete. On the other hand, the two government councils have played ball between themselves when there are questions about avisporto or other ways to ensure a wide selection of opinionable newspapers in the future. There has been little willingness to find and evaluate solutions. For example, a current model that might be interesting to assess more closely is: The Danish one who receives a government award for avisporto. But this hasn't happened. It is interesting that the Right and Christian People's Party in the vote states that it is the press support to ensure the shortage in the Norwegian newspaper market. Why has this not come out in response from the two Councils, who have been asked many questions about how to ensure a wide selection of meaningful newspapers in the future? Finally, a few comments on returns and exchange for the Post. The return requirement for the Item is set to 10.8 pst. The working party, SV and the Centre are unsure whether this may be too high a requirement. The entry shall carry out societal and service-related tasks which will be difficult to perform. It is important that the objective of an equivalent postal service to the whole country should not give way to consideration for economic gain. The high yield requirement could lead to excessive efficiency and excessive centralisation of the Post. At the end of the day, I will take up the proposal where the Central Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e125	The representative Jorunn Ringstad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e128	Today, the Storting deals with an important principle theme, the state of Posten Norge AS. The Section 10 Communication raises some issues about the future situation in Posten Norge AS and the postal market in general. The Norge AS is operated after conversion into a limited liability company according to commercial principles, which in itself facilitates increased liberalisation and increased profit-thinking regardless of EU law. We in the Workers' Party are quite concerned about this. We are also concerned that the Post Norway AS as an important Norwegian infrastructure is at risk of weakening as a result of further liberalisation of the postal market. The entry Norge AS shall provide good and equivalent services in line with the concession requirements, while increasing returns and dividends requirements. I am critical of whether these requirements can be combined in the long term. In addition, we in the Workers' Party are concerned that the returns and dividends requirements could lead to pressures for excessive efficiency in the Post Office. The main task of the item must be to provide qualitatively good, reasonable and equivalent services, not at any cost to generate profits to the country. The item should primarily be an important infrastructure and service provider, not necessarily a source of income. Let me take a little historical look. The first stamp in this country came out on 1 January 1855, after the introduction of a system of equal postage across the country. That time, in the 1850s, it took between seven and nine days to bring a letter from Christiania to Bergen. The peasants were responsible for the cargo on land, with horses and cattle. The boat was used along the coast. The entry shall be preceded by a known term and that term shall also be added today. Bad roads, snow and storms did not stop the mail then. It went on honour and on pride loose to get the mail out. The single postal system with cross-subsidisation of correspondence has so far made it possible to offer quality postal services throughout the country at a reasonable price. The working party is uncertain about how to maintain the unit portfolio when the basis for geographical cross-subsidisation disappears with the lapse of the exclusive rights area without increasing the state purchase of services. We would therefore point out that, in order to maintain today's system even after the withdrawal of the exclusive rights area and possible withdrawal of the single sports system, increased public purchases of unprofitable parts of the postal services may be necessary in order to maintain adequate postal services in less profitable areas in a competitive situation. We also believe that other alternatives should be considered to ensure that the system is not weakened. An equivalent good postal service across the country must be a goal. The Labour Party considers that a solution should be considered in which a joint negotiating arrangement between the State and State AS should be established between the State and AS to which the State is dealing in determining the purchase of services in the companies concerned. Maintaining the Post as an important part of Norwegian infrastructure means strengthening the company, not weakening it. The Labour Party will point out that the postal performance is not good enough especially in Finnmark, which is part of the North Region. It is very unfortunate that some regions are significantly below the national average in relation to the concession requirement for postal services. The carrying-over of priority items between, for example: The West, Trondelag and North Norway are significantly lower than the national average. Therefore, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party ask «The Government is working towards the concession requirement of 85 pst. of the A-item, up to night, relating to the national average, shall also apply to the A-item in and between the regions.’;» We must not leave all the management of the Post as an important part of our infrastructure entirely to the market. I think we're in a situation where, in our opinion, we're moving at a pain limit. We need to follow closely and cooperate on what is happening in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e147	St.meld. No 11 for 2003-2004 is a so-called § 10 notification explaining the developments in the Post Office and the postal market since the previous notification, as well as the plans and challenges of the Post Office in the coming years. The government proposes to continue the main lines of existing postal policy with the continuation of today's concession and state purchases of unprofitable postal services. It is a pleasure to note that there is a broad connection to the main lines of the message. The left side has some critical comments, but the government does not get the majority against it in any area. In its ownership management of the Post, the Ministry of Transport is concerned that: the company provides a postal service offer tailored to the needs of individual customer groups and at competitive prices the company provides the State with the highest possible value creation over time the company fulfils the social and regional obligations in a cost-effective manner; The item’s results over the period 2000–2002 show that the company has a low profitability and the 2002 figures show a negative annual result. Over the period 1999–2002, the post carried out a manning reduction of about 6 000 annual works and an increase in the number of staff in the subsidiaries of around 2 500 annual works. We record that the Posten's plans for the coming period correspond to a downtime in the parent company of approx. 3 700 annual works and a crew increase in the subsidiaries of 880 annual works. Sickness absences and the development of the number of new unemployees are still high. Compared with recent developments in 2002 the number of new unaccompanied persons and the number of unaccompanied sick leave flared up. We see that the Post is facing major market challenges. The development is characterised by significant volume cases for letter mail. The market is further characterised by the eradicating of former trade barriers, globalisation and increased competition. The EU Postal Directive sets out a plan for the gradual full liberalisation of the postal sector, which will also apply to Norway through the EEA Agreement. The major postal companies in Europe are expanding across borders. The development is a serious threat to the profitability of the Post and presents the company with major challenges related to product and service development, efficiency and market positioning. In order to strengthen the focus on the core business of the Post, the company has separated several support and service institutions into its own units. In addition, a major shift has been made in the postal sales network, which together has improved the availability of the company's services by increasing the number of postal sites and increasing the opening hours. A major conversion of the sorting network has also been carried out. Restructuring will reduce the number of terminal messages from 32 to 12 and will reduce the number of terminal terminals from 21 to 13 by 2006. It is gratifying to note that the comprehensive reconversion measures of the Post have had a positive effect. However, wage and cost increases and loss of income have resulted in a greater impact on the company's profitability development. In order to ensure satisfactory profitability, further cost-reduction measures, focus on core activities and increased revenues from new services are necessary. The company has launched an efficiency plan to ensure a cost reduction of DKK 1 billion by the end of 2004 beyond what has already been foreseen in adopted plans. We agree that the Post will continue the main features of the company's strategy from the previous period. The strategy is aimed at further improving the efficiency of operations, business development, selective procurement and alliance construction. Measures will be put in place to further improve the efficiency of operations in terminal work, distribution and administration. At the same time, the company will continue its efforts to develop new services to extend and replace traditional products. The main change contained in the message is that the Item is now able to make agreements with financial institutions other than the Postbank. A unanimous committee asks the Government to assess the level of detail in the future § 10 messages. It is desirable that the Post, which is becoming increasingly competitively exposed, should not explain in detail its strategic assessments and plans, as this may impose a competitive disadvantage on the Post. It is assumed that the overall plans and assessments will continue to be available to the public. A relationship that has received a lot of attention is the penetration rate in Finnmark. Here's the performance rate for A-mail of 40 pst. There is a carry-over rate well below the national average, which is about 90 pst. The requirement for the national average is 85 pst. and there are no specific requirements for performance in and between regions. The problem for Finnmark is the great distances. If the penetration rate is to rise in Finnland, delivery times elsewhere in the country need to be significantly accelerated, and this seems to be a scarcely appropriate grip. It should also be noted that the internal A-post in Finnmark has a performance rate of 75 pst. Although, for Finland for logistical reasons, it is not possible to reach the percentage of A-mail carried forward as a whole as for the country as a whole, it is important that the Post tries to get as high a percentage as possible in all parts of the country, given the constraints that exist. As mentioned earlier, there is a broad consensus on the broad lines of postal policy. The strong noise as it was around the Post and postal policy a few years ago has now ceased. It is positive and gives Posten the opportunity to develop the company so that we still have good and reasonable postal services in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e193	The Post Message shows that there is a high degree of agreement between the various parties in the Storting on the operation of the Post. The progress party is largely satisfied with what the Post has achieved during the last period, although much as described in the notification should have been done in the past. Post in Store is such an example. In the early 1980s, the Progress Party ordered the Post to go to the store and that this would be beneficial for the maintenance of shops in the district of Norway. Later on, we've shown that we were right. Unfortunately, too many shops have been closed down during all the years it would take before Post in Store became a reality, simply because a majority on Stortinget is opposed to any innovation that implies competition. The Contracting Party is satisfied that the Post Norway AS is far above the requirements of the concession, where the national average for the carriage of A-mail is required to be 85 pst. Even if the performance to, among other things, Finnmark is approx. 40 pst., I see it as difficult to improve this up to the national average. This would in case lead to demands for very early delivery time in other parts of the country and/or large costs. This, of course, does not mean that the Post should not do its best to improve the performance. One problem that emerged in the hearing of the Newspaper Union is that the Post has set up the price of the transmission of journals and periodicals quite strongly, which could threaten the existence of many newspapers. This is one of the behinds of the Post's monopoly on the delivery of letters weighing 100 grams down. This monopoly prevents effective competition and is therefore price driven, as also emerged in the hearing of the National Associations of the newspapers. Therefore, the Progress Party proposed that the Posten monopoly be abolished when examining the State budget of the year. Unfortunately, this did not get a majority. If it had been adopted, it could have led to lower prices for all the small newspapers in this country that create a diversity. When this was not done, it would have to be the press support that ensures a diversity in the newspaper world. With regard to returns and dividend policies, the Progress Party is clear that, when engaged in a private company, the State should have a return claim in line with private actors. On the other hand, the dividend policy has to be determined by the board, based on a profit in the company. Unfortunately, the state has had a completely different dividend policy, which takes more account of how much money the state needs in individual budgets than the company's welfare and well-being. This is no one who's earned, neither the state nor the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e208	The government’s postal message is a message about a very important part of the country’s infrastructure. An effective postal system for the whole country is an oak in the social wheel. For SV, it is important that a policy is put in place to make the Post the best of what the Post is set to do, namely to be infrastructure. The government's notification does not imply any dramatic changes to the Post Office's activities. But for those who are on the wrong track, the absence of course change does not necessarily mean that you are on the right track. I am thinking with this of the worrying trend that the Post as part of the State-owned infrastructure should continue to be subject to corporate economic profitability requirements. To borrow the words of Øyvind Thorsen: Today the Post will no longer go by post. Today, the post office is going to make a profit. The post today has a claim for 10.8 p.m. the return on capital. I think essentially that profit is a honorary word. But many times we see that the profitability requirement goes across infrastructure. And in many cases, the profitability requirement becomes completely irrelevant when talking about infrastructure. Let me give you three examples. The pressure on profitability leads to an increase in the ‘direct marketing’ and ‘unaddressed’ C-post rates, i.e. advertising, in order to meet the return requirements. The return requirements de facto lead us to the situation today that a state-owned infrastructure company is staying liquid by disappointing tons of unaddressed advertising into the country's mailboxes or by selling the names and address lists to companies that want surgical advertising bombing aimed at being lonely women, cohabiting men or large families of children. Only in the case of unaddressed C-mail, will the item be traded for 850 million. kr per year. We're talking about almost $1 billion in advertising. This is what you would in other contexts be called to be at the limit of the parochial, and far above the limit of what you're going to use a state company for. Secondly, we see that postal services in the districts are constantly being weakened in order to cut costs in order to achieve the government's demand for returns. On a national basis, i.e. on average, the Post is doing fine concession requirements for that 85 pst. of the A-item shall appear on the following day. But if you break down the numbers, we see that for example. North Norway is becoming increasingly poor, both for mail to the region and for mail out of the region. Here, in some cases, the percentage is down to the 50s. This is not sustainable and, in our opinion, violates the role of the Post as an infrastructure and as an oak in the social wheel. So we see that when the government's demands for profitability are put ahead of everything else, the Post is undermined as an infrastructure in very specific areas. On the overall level, it is unfortunately a sign in time that hospitals, postal services and railways – what we commonly call infrastructure – should be economically profitable. It's putting things completely on your head. Everyone understands that calculating the profitability of infrastructure, such as: Lier tunnel or E6 is a pointless exercise. The question is not whether the infrastructure is profitable but whether it serves an important purpose. The post is infrastructure, and the post serves an important purpose. Letters from Grong in the North Trøndelag are very likely to appear in Stavanger the next day. A major part of the letters and packages collected in Flekkefjord on Monday are delivered 400 different places in Norway the next day. These are qualities that need to be developed, not discontinued. With the government's return policy, we are facing a gradual decline in the Post as an infrastructure and a construction of the Post as a financial dairy cow. Recently, we've seen a development with Post in Store. I think this change is good, and SV has been a driver, because it means in many places – not least in the districts – a more efficient operation and not least a safer offer than before. But what worries me is the increasing degree of ‘Postal Business’, i.e. that the Post finds all sorts of gaps in order to increase its performance to meet the returns requirements, whether in the form of advertising, poorer postal services in North Norway or that you could meet a wall of Postman Pat videos for sale in the post office. I don't think the Post's future is in more circus, I think the future of the Post is in less circus and more glow. For SV, it is important that there is a postal policy that gives the Post glow and that makes the Post the best in the Post that is set to do, namely be infrastructure. The item needs to have a framework that ensures that quality is constantly evolving. But this is something quite different than saying that the Post should have a framework that makes the basic services and the Post as a concept and brand gradually thinn out, as we see today. The post today has a claim for 10.8 p.m. the return on capital. I have to say that I am surprised that the Left – I assume that the Left here is in the majority – and the Christian People's Party is going in majority with the Advance Party to get this done. I record that the fight for the districts and infrastructure of the Christian People's Party and the fight against the advertising spiral for the Left is not important enough to use the argument in the Government that two parties are more than one, and use this weight to join in and reverse the slope of the Post today. SV has two suggestions to mitigate this trend. SV proposes to change the concession terms of the Post in such a way that the role of infrastructure is given priority over profitability and by providing A-post as quickly as today in all regions. In view of future cooperation, I am pleased to note that the Workers' Party and the Centre are also involved in our proposal to change the terms of the concession in such a direction. Secondly, many today receive advertising, either in the form of unaddressed C mail or in the form of subscription newspapers. You only have the opportunity today to make reservations about advertising in the mailbox, and you have to say that actively about it. SV wants – and this is our second proposal – to investigate the consequences of a reverse evidence system on the issue of advertising. SV wants to investigate a system where only consumers who actively want to receive advertising in the form of unaddressed C mail and subscription papers. I take our suggestions into account in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e238	The representative Geir-Ketil Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e241	It has been said that without the Post Norway stops. That's why the Christian People's Party believes that there's a very important message the Stortinget has for treatment today. The item is in a demanding period with many new challenges. Technological developments have increased and competition in the market is high and has had a major impact on the Post Office’s activities. This call for proposals should therefore be of great interest far beyond this hall and in particular to all those concerned with the Post as a viable enterprise. It is the ‘good old post’ and not the ‘Circus’ that in the foreseeable future must ensure that people in all parts of the country receive an equivalent and good offer of postal services at the lowest price possible. Despite the liberalisation of the postal market, it is unlikely that actors other than the Post will be able to take on such a task. In the Christian People's Party, we still believe that the Post is and will be an important part of the infrastructure in Norway. The company is important to maintain a widespread settlement in the country, and we want to facilitate the development of the Post so that the company is well equipped to meet new challenges. The post has a clear social responsibility, and I am pleased that the Ministry of Transport strongly emphasises this in its ownership management of the company. Through the concession, defined by the Ministry, the Post is required to carry out important postal tasks throughout the country. During the hearing in the Committee on Transport, the Post of Norway explained how the company complies with the requirements of the concession. The postal service for most people has not become worse, as some claim, but on the contrary much better. For example, the Post has now more than 1,500 outlets throughout the country, and 99.95 pst. by all households, mail is distributed six days a week. It is also reassuring to read that the requirement of 85 pst. all A-items shall be promoted overnight, observed with a good margin, and additional quality improvements planned. I don't want to hide that many in the Christian People's Party have asked questions about the process that the Post has been through, but today we know that the transitions have given the Post better economy and greater competitiveness in meeting new challenges. In this way, the painful changes have been necessary. Technological developments that no one can stop have meant a significant drop in volume — and electronic alternatives have taken over too much of the old item. In addition, the postal market is becoming increasingly liberalised. Last spring, the Stortinget adopted a change to the Postal Act which will initially entail a gradual reduction in the Post Office's exclusive jurisdiction. In the long term, our EEA membership may require full liberalisation of the postal market. The Christian People's Party is excited about this development. For us competition has never been an end in itself. But we believe that the Post can get well into the meeting with this competition, provided that the company continues to evolve. Although the Christian People's Party is strongly concerned with the Posten's social responsibility, we are also concerned not to impose requirements on the company that are difficult to implement and that may go beyond other parts of the company's social activities. That is why we do not agree with the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre that the concession requirement of that 85 pst. by the A-item overnight, shall also apply to the A-item in and between the regions. Like the proposers, we are concerned about the postal delivery in Finnmark, but do not think the way to go is to adopt such a bombastic formulation here and now. In any case, a thorough examination of the consequences and costs of such a proposal is essential. In any case, the Christian People's Party will follow developments closely, especially in Finnmark, and we know that the Minister of Transport has given this matter a high priority on his agenda. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring the Post Norway AS predictable returns and dividends requirements, and we believe that the Post should have returns requirements in line with its private competitors. This is necessary in order to build strength to meet competition and ensure orderly conditions in a more open postal market. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to commend the rapporteur for his good work, with comments that have helped to bring together the Committee around important parts of the communication. The treatment in Stortinget shows that the parties have the same goal for the Post, and that we are all concerned that people in this country should have good postal services at a low price, no matter where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e267	We're discussing the Post today. The item is part of the privatisation process that we have already experienced. By converting the Item into a limited liability company, it no longer falls under the State company but under the Share Act. And then it is the Share Act that governs the Post. It is the Share Act that governs state companies that become a limited liability company. It is the share law that governs municipal companies, intercommunal companies, etc. – it is neither municipal law nor state law, but it is the share law. Then we have to be clear: when we decide in this house that one company after another will become a share company, it joins the ranks of the privatisation wave you experience. I have experienced sending mail from Brønnøysund and down to the Oslo area, which took five days. It was an A-mail. I have experienced the opposite, sending A-mail from here to Brønnøysund, it took one day. There is no doubt that the process we have been through has done something about the service offer. That's perfectly obvious. We've got a worse offer. We experience that when we send letters to each other, the mail is sent to a sorting centre. Then it is sent back again to be distributed. It may take several days. So there is no doubt that the service has become worse. We've moved from the post office to Post in Store. It's good in some areas. So everything's not wrong, but we have to be aware of what we're doing. That's not good all we do. I can go in to support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox We have ourselves decided that the service offer would be good, and that would be just as good when reorganization took place. Otherwise, I can agree with the setting put forward by the Committee. I can support it, but I also support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e281	The government has submitted a communication on the activities of Posten Norge AS, which will form the basis for the ownership management of the company. I see that the Committee has also commented on a number of issues that are more regulatory in nature. It is natural from the great importance of the regulatory aspects of postal policy. However, I would like to stress that the big message that is being addressed here is not meant to be an adequate communication of the overall postal policy. This is a notification of the activity and ownership management of Post Norway AS. I am pleased that there seems to be a broad political consensus on important goals for the ownership of the Post Office. The Committee's position underlines, inter alia, that the Post is an important part of our country's infrastructure and that the company must be able to adapt to meet the challenges of today's society. I think there is reason to stress that the Post Office has improved the quality and service of the universal service in the last few years overall. 99.95 pst. Of all households in this country, the highest figure is now delivered six days a week. The number of non-performing households is reduced from 1500 to about 1000 in four years. The overall availability of postal services has been improved by the extension of opening hours. The number of postal sites, including Post in Store, has increased from about 1 300 in 2000 to about 1500 in 2003. A recent customer survey shows that customers are increasingly satisfied with the new sales network. This applies in particular to Post in Store. The number of customers in post offices was record high in 2003 and the waiting time has decreased significantly. The proportion of priority mail arrived at the following day has increased on a national basis, from 78,3 p.p. in 1999 to 86,7 p.m. in 2002, and is now well above the 85 pst concession requirement. This positive trend has continued in 2003, with an average transmission quality of 87.7 pst. This is a quality improvement and the quality improvement has taken place at the same time as the company has been able to make significant changes to ensure the economy of the company. It is very positive and absolutely necessary for the Post to be able to provide good postal services, including in the long term, at a reasonable price throughout the country, thus also contributing to a good and modern district policy. There appears to be broad consensus in the Committee that a strong and economically viable postal enterprise is needed to achieve the objectives of postal policy. I am pleased because changes will be necessary in the years to come. It is a prerequisite, not an obstacle, for ever better postal services and a viable Item Norge AS. I would also like to emphasise that all changes will be made in cooperation with and with great transparency towards employees. The Committee also agrees with the Government that the Board of Directors of the Post should have a long-term focus on the core business of the company, and a majority considers that the overall economic governance should be based on predictability for the company, in relation to the return and dividend requirements. It is thus in line with all important aspects of the ownership management of the State postal company in Norway. Nevertheless, there are some areas where there are different views. The Committee is pleased that the Post is well above the 85 pst concession requirement. transmission of A-mail by night, and an overall committee asks the Post to continue to work to reduce delivery time in those parts of the country where it is the worst today, without weakening the standard of delivery in the rest of the country. I would also like to stress the importance of delivering the post that cannot be delivered overnight as quickly as possible, as the Committee also points out. I am concerned that we will have a good postal service throughout the country. The postal and telecommunications authorities have now announced that they will require the Post to make measurements at sub-national level, in order to facilitate proof that the Post has a good and equivalent offer throughout the country. Such measurements shall be carried out within the second half of 2004. I notice that a minority believes that the concession requirement of 85 pst. transmission over the night ‘to be understood in such a way as to relate not only to the national average but also to the A-item in and between the regions’. I would like to stress that the minority’s proposal is not an alternative interpretation of existing concession requirements – as it may appear in the minority’s wording. This is a completely new concession requirement, which will be a significant intensification and will result in significantly higher costs, either for the inhabitants or for the State. I have not yet seen in the annual budgetary proceedings that there has been a similar willingness to increase the government purchase of postal services to which this remark would be added. In my opinion, the natural time for assessing any changes to the concession requirements will be the preparation of a new concession for the Item from January 2006. However, it is important to be aware that strengthening the requirements will lead to the need for significant increases in the appropriations for the purchase of postal services by the State. The government has started work on assessing further liberalisation of the postal market in Norway. I expect to come back to Stortinget with a suggestion about this in the course of the year. Here it will be appropriate to discuss different aspects of the postal activity, such as future unit portfolios, level of service and the question that the Post through its shipping network will contribute to ensuring that all parts of the country are offered basic banking services. I have noticed that the Committee asks the Government to assess the level of detail with regard to the Posten's §10 plans. I assume that the scheme of Section 10 plans will continue, and that the Stortinget, as today, will be provided with owner notifications of the General Plans and Strategies of the Post every two years, in order to gain transparency in the Posten's activities. In addition, in line with the Committee's comments and the input from Posten Norway and Postkom, I would like to assess the level of detail when discussing the Posten's plans in the light of the new competitive situation. I would also like to assess the frequency of submissions of Section 10 plans from Posten to the Ministry, which today has to be submitted twice as often as the Ministry sends statements of ownership to Stortinget. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have asked the Ministry to look at the possibility of using one model for the government purchase of unprofitable services from state companies. I agree that it is important to treat as much as possible, but I still have to point out that the services to be purchased are partly very different, and that the state purchase therefore needs to be adapted in the form of the individual purpose we want to achieve. The Ministry is constantly working to find effective arrangements for public purchases. Finally, I would like to refer to the Committee's comment on the Post Museum, which points out that there is natural coordination with the other establishment museums. I agree with the need for coordination, but I believe that, for the Post Museum's part, coordination with the Tele Museum is natural, more than with the other etats.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e333	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e336	I would like to ask the Council of State if she has any thoughts or tools about how to improve postal delivery, especially in Finnmark, if she has thought through how to solve it. She said that you might want to see that it would be even better, but do you have any tools for it? Does she have any thoughts about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e341	If I had had the answer in detail on how we should have changed the postal delivery in all the areas in the country where we feel that the postal delivery is not as good as we would have preferred, we would have used it a long time ago. What's important is that we do the Post Norway AS shot to run as efficiently as possible, and actually get handled in a sensible way. The challenge will lie with the Post Office. They will now have the attention – and I am sure that you will also in this room – to improve the quality and service of the Post Office, so that you can experience good service and fast delivery wherever you live in the country. And then you have to remember that there are alternative technologies -- we see them more and more in use -- that will send us a good deal of what we want to send, quickly, even in minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e348	My question also concerns Finnmark. I was going to decline when I heard that Stroem took up the question, but after hearing the answer from the Council of State, I have to re-examine the question, because the Council of State gives you the impression that you do not know what to do to increase the level of transmission in Finnmark. In 2002, it turned out that only 40 pst. of all A-mails in Finnmark arrived to the recipient the following day. And 75 pst. by A-mail from the sender in Finnmark to the recipient in Finnmark came the day after – that is, far below. After all, Jan Sahl said in his post that he was familiar with the fact that the Council of State prioritised Finnmark on top when it came to improving quality. But now you get the answer that you don't know exactly what to do. I would therefore like to ask the question again: does the Council of State give priority to improving the quality of Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e355	This has been a topic earlier in this room, and then I have emphasised that it is important to improve the quality and get a faster transmission time, not just in relation to Finnmark, but in relation to the whole of North Norway. It's an important problem. What we can do on the part of the authorities is one aspect that the Postal and Telecommunications Authority has been gripping about, to get an overview of how much time the mail actually spends. First of all, we are concerned about the transmission during the night, and we are also concerned about how much will happen in the days that follow. How long does the mail take? It is one important aspect that priority posts should arrive overnight; another is predictability, that people should be sure that A posts will arrive quickly. That's why I believe that if we get a better overview of how it works, it will be a tool both for Posten Norge AS and for us who are ombudsmen for the inhabitants of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e362	We have a large number of newspapers in the country, and this particular case of newspaper shortages is important, among other things. for freedom of expression. For this reason, it should also be an objective in the future to keep the newspaper gap. Int. S. No 124 expresses the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Central Party's concern that the large postage that the newspapers now mark may lead to the absence of newspapers that we've had. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party are not on that note, but say, on the other hand, that there are press supports to ensure the lack of newspapers. Can the Council of State confirm that it is also the Government's holding that there are press supports to ensure the lack of newspapers, and that there is therefore a main responsibility for the Minister of Culture when it comes to ensuring the lack of newspapers in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e371	I think there's a broad consensus here in the hall that it's important to keep the newspaper diversity. What has happened to avisporto and leaf postage is a change in the concession. That change was made under the government of Stoltenberg, and we have followed it up. Now, when it turns out that we get a higher postage on newspapers, I think it's important to figure out what this means. What does this mean for individual localities and for those affected by this? The Ministry of Culture has stated that the state media administration is currently investigating the economic impact on the smallest localities as a result of the postage increases. When you have more knowledge of this, there are opportunities to assess possible instruments, and you have to discuss where these tools can best be deployed. Press support can be such an instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e378	The last part of the post to the Council of State was, to a large extent, a reply to the minority, but I'll leave it. I also do not want to contribute to a description of poverty, because there is a lot of good in the Post. But there's a lot left, we're in the Working Party, before we have equivalent services in the whole country. Last week I had my home as my base. Then I had a little experiment going on, easy to see if I got the mail from Stortinget overnight. And I did! I actually didn't do that the last time I tried, so it goes forward some places. I'm still a little bit crooked, even though it's not that far from Stavanger. But I got the mail from here overnight, and I'm in the hands of a lot of people. I want to ask the Council a little bit more about how it will ensure this when people don't get the post. If I wait for a letter and don't get it one day, I won't be impatient until the other day. But if it goes a week, I'll be terribly impatient. There may be some damage when there is something that needs to be done. How will the State secure information on this, as the Council of State calls it? And how will she see that one day becomes two days, right?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e389	I'm glad to hear that there are several people who have positive experiences with the Post, because I think that's actually quite a lot of them. And that also shows the numbers. We are concerned with this with equivalent services, and I can guarantee that Posten Norges AS is also. I believe that the most important aid we can then have is simply to check whether we are able to follow the post, and that Posten Norge AS itself keeps an active eye on how long the mail will take. The entry Norge AS will itself be earned with it. Whatever's going to happen in the next few years, we're going to see increased competition in the long term. If the Post Norway is to be protected for this, it is in the Post Norway’s own interest to be able to show high quality. At the same time, as the owner, I would like to say that it is very important for me to show that we have this tool, and that people should have a certainty that there is predictability in the transmission. Both the Post Norway and the Post and Telecommunications Authority have a job to do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e396	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e400	A very important perspective on the Post as the owner’s perspective is the customer perspective. From the point of view of customers, postal services are available in more locations than ever before. The opening hours are longer than ever before – until long after normal office hours. If you can't get the package from the Post office, you can get it all the way home. The item meets the concession requirement of 85 pst. of the A-post shall be received by night. When the requirement was introduced in 1999, it was only 75 pst. by the A-post that arrived during the night. So overall, the post office has become better for the customers. The problem of the performance in Finnmark is the background to the proposal to consider requirements for the performance of A-posts also in and between regions. It would contribute to meeting the requirement of equivalent postal services across the country. It would strengthen the Posten’s competitive position vis-à-vis other actors when the last monopoly also falls. At the same time, we need to be aware that such a requirement will make greater demands on the performance of the Post and, rather, strengthen the need for efficiency and conversion or the need for increased appropriations from the State budget. There is a broad consensus that the Post is fulfilling an important societal task. The post will bring letters and packages from the sender to the consignee fairly quickly and reliably. But we must not forget that the post office, fortunately for the customers, is not alone in completing this task. On the package side there have always been alternatives for customers. Now there is also an alternative on the letter page, with everything from bicycle delivery to car delivery. But more importantly, for many years we have had faxes as an opportunity. In recent years, e-mails have come as a quick and inexpensive alternative, not least to the benefit of districts. Distance and time are gone as a problem with these forms of communication. This is good for the customers, but a challenge for the Post. Therefore, it is so important that the Post is able to adapt to this new situation and meet competition. If the Post does not do this, it becomes much more difficult to maintain the Post as the central actor in terms of these tasks for people and businesses. If the Post is to succeed, it is essential that they have the ability and the ability to adapt to technological developments and to the increasing competition for customers. The purpose of the Post is not to be a source of income for the State, as pointed out by the Advocate General. But that doesn't mean the Post can ignore profitability in its operations. Therefore, it becomes a dangerous signal when the SV in the setting says that it is not so dangerous if the post office does not have a large profit, only they do the job. It may sound like a festive slogan: the post office's task is to go by post, not by profit. But it is a dangerous slogan for a company that must live in competition with others. Without any profit, the Post loses the opportunity to invest in new technology, and they are not given the opportunity to do so, for example. to buy up other actors in order to strengthen competitiveness. The item has a turnover of NOK 15 billion. In 2002, there was a deficit of 106 million. kr. After the third quarter last year, it was 60 million. kr i plus. It is unpleasantly small, not just to meet owners’ returns – that is not the most important thing – but to have an operation that generates funds for necessary investments and conversions. NOK 15 billion in turnover and a surplus of even SEK 400 to 500 million. kr is – to say it in a political language – as a life below the barrier. The unpleasant perspective of the Post is that more than half of the revenue comes from letters, which are most vulnerable to competition from e-mail and other actors. There shall not be much failure here until the Post is a deficit enterprise. And who's going to cover it? What would the Competition Authority say if the State had to provide funds in addition to the purchase of socially unprofitable services, in relation to the distortion of competition it would create against other actors? Geir-Ketil Hansen wanted to limit Posten's ability to compete for advertising. So it's almost $1 billion on the income side. I don't think this will lead to less advertising in the mailboxes, just to less revenue for the Post Office. And then the concern will not be if the surplus becomes too large, but if not the deficit becomes unpleasantly large. A life dependent on government budget appropriations can quickly become a risky life, including for Posten’s employees, in the face of growing needs in health businesses, elderly care, kindergartens, schools or increased road appropriations. The representative Bastesen believed that it was the Share Act that governed the Post. With all due respect for this hall, this assembly is hardly the most suitable one in the country to determine where post offices or sorting terminals should be in order for the Post Office to fulfil its social role and fulfil its concession requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e433	In this case, the rapporteur has done a good job, which a joint committee largely ends up doing. The entire Committee notes that postal services remain a very important part of our basic infrastructure. Letters and parcels are still good ways to be operated, although a lot is happening today via e-mail and telecommunications services. The social responsibility of the post is clearly, with an equivalent service provision across the country, not least in order to maintain a competitive situation for industry in the districts. The migration within the Post Office has been large and has improved the economy, and has in many cases led to better availability by having received the mail at the post office and thus extended the opening time for the users. Today’s EEA Agreement provides for increased competitive tendering. This will lead to a gradual reduction in the exclusive rights of the Post Office, which we believe should have the strength to cope with its competences and framework conditions. Good and equivalent services throughout the country should therefore be maintained. It is good to note that postal services are well above the 85 pst concession requirements. related to the delivery of overnight A-mail. However, it needs to be clarified here that this is the national average and not applicable to Finnmark. The post’s further challenges will therefore be to work for an improvement in Finnmark. The concession does not contain specific requirements for transmission in and between regions. The introduction of such requirements leads to significant intensification of concessions and thus to higher costs. As far as the many local authorities we have in our country today are concerned, which is an enrichment for many districts, their economy must, among other things. be secured through press support and other instruments. An overall committee notes that there has been a significant conversion of the Item, including significant efficiency and conversion of the employee’s employment. This change must take place in cooperation with employee organisations in an open process. Finally, the Christian People's Party believes that the return must be predictable for the Post Norway AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e456	Through the concession requirements, the item is required to provide postal services and basic banking services throughout the country. The post has a clear responsibility to be able to offer what we call equivalent services, whether it's in Oslo or in Hammerfest. The strong change in the post of Norway over the last few years has probably been as demanding as it needs to be. The Post continues to face some fundamental challenges as a result of the liberalisation of the letter market and more general structural changes. This, combined with the business requirements, will continue to require changes. I have a great deal of understanding that the decline in general mail and the ever-increasing use of electronic alternatives are a threat to the company's profitability. Nevertheless, I am seriously concerned that the Post Norway as responsible for important infrastructure in the country is at risk of further deterioration. There is good reason to ask whether continued liberalisation of the market and requirements for commercial operations can actually be combined with the role of the Post as manager and supplier in relation to key societal tasks. There is reason to ask whether it is possible to combine requirements for good operation and profits with the role of the Post and the social responsibility of the Post. The post office has concession requirements that say that 85 pst. all A-mails must be delivered overnight. The company is well located here, without me thinking that there is particular reason to be satisfied. The concession requirement is, as has been said, based on a national average. Then it could be 40 pst. in Finnmark and 90 pst. in Oslo, and the cut makes the Poster turn on the chest and say, "Everything's hurt well, we've met the concession requirements." The working party believes that the concession requirement of 85 pst. it shall also apply to ‘A’ entry in and between the regions. It's a fair claim, promoted by business in our northern part of the country. It's a claim that it's regrettable that the bourgeois parties won't stand behind. These differences not only clearly violate the principle that the Post should perform equivalent services across the country, but are in line with the range of measures the Post has launched that severely discriminates against our northernmost state. And the other thing we're going to notice is that of the 18 places in Norway that lose their postal terminals, 13 of them, 72 p.m., are in North Norway. Nor can the post office guarantee that the delivery of business packages goes as fast as in other parts of the country. We just have to regret that. The postal office in Alta has also been closed. I have received a stream of enquiries from our business community. They do not have much good to say about the service provided by the Post regarding express parcels and other mail in the north. If we are to maintain a scattered settlement, we cannot continue the discrimination of our northernmost state. We believe that both businesses and individuals are entitled to the same services. Post and telecommunications have been concerned with the quality of the postal service, including: in Finnmark. It's a good promise. We look forward to the review that the Post and Telecommunications Authority is now going to do, to see how the concession terms are going to break out across the country. We have hopes for that process. There is now a gigantic industrial snow-white adventure in West Finland. In a few years, developments will continue in the east, with oil and gas. It's clear that we have to be able to offer the business that's going to invest billions of dollars, a postal service and a postal service similar to what they'd have otherwise in the country. Then to the Council of State. State Council Skogsholm has earlier in this room answered questions about the mail production to Finnmark. The Minister of Transport then promised to follow developments closely and assess measures. The answer that the Council of State gave here today was not to be wise, and it was little promising. My advice to business in the north will be to keep the powder dry still.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e473	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e476	The representative Svein Roald Hansen provoked me to take the floor. He is quite right in what he said, that Stortinget is not the right forum to decide where to find a post office. In that case, the local government must decide, but we in Stortinget have deprived the local government and Stortinget of the political governance with which we are to have a post office. It is subject to the provisions of the Share Act and it is the profitability of the shareholders to determine the location of the post office. That is what we have a responsibility for. So if the representative Svein Roald Hansen has not understood it from my post, it is finally clear from this that it is the profitability of the shareholders who will determine where to find the post office. We have been deprived of political governance in a way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e481	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1897]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e497	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be divided into groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three sequences with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is regarded as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e508	It is very gratifying for me as the case rapporteur to record that there is broad agreement between all the parties in the hall on the main objective of this big message. All lots underline that they will ensure a good transport standard on the Bergen–Kirkenes route. It is of great importance for coastal settlements, workplaces and tourism. All parties stress the importance of the fast route offer for the coast in general and North Norway in particular. Oscar Wilde should have once said: A cynic is one who knows all the prizes, but no thing's worth. In the case of the fast route, it is difficult to quantify the value of the fast route offer. The socio-economic benefits are difficult to calculate. But a living tradition that goes back to 1893, when the first fast-tracker set the course to the north, is definitely worth taking care of. Over the course of its 111 years, the fast route has developed a very special position in people's consciousness, and has an important function for people's lives in many states. I can't avoid telling you that I've had the pleasure of growing up near a fast-moving house and daily experiencing the feeling of sharing with the rest of the country that the fast-route approach represented. In addition, we got a meeting with the big world when the tourists landed with their camera on their stomachs. The fast route continues to provide positive ring-effects throughout the country by being a unique tourist magnet that attracts people from all over the world to Norway. This meaning will certainly not diminish after National Geographic recently renamed the Norwegian fjords to the world's best destinations. In addition, both Lofoten and Nordcap are tourist attractions in the world’s measuring stick. But we should not forget, of course, the primary function of transporting people and goods. It is very important to clarify that government purchases are not subsidising tourism transport, but the purchase of distance travel for the local population. Many coastal small communities depend on the fast-haul service to achieve the necessary transport standard. In addition, the high-speed service offers help to distort the transport of persons and goods from road to sea. Good fast-tracking policies are also good environmental policies. I am pleased that an overall committee expresses satisfaction that the Government still wants to purchase transport services on the Bergen–Kirkenes route, and that the Government's primary and desired alternative is still the purchase of a continuous route Bergen–Kirkenes, based on today's route structure. So this is the whole starting point of the committee. What distinguishes are the means by which the various batches will use to achieve this objective. I'm counting on the different parties' spokespersons to justify that for themselves. The government has proposed in the message that a secondary option be launched to ensure that the government payment is not unnecessarily high. Tenders based on a continuation of today’s transport services to the long-distance passenger could provide a limited number of providers, not least because there is high investment costs related to fleet construction. The secondary option is based on four weekly sailing south of Tromsø and four weekly sailing north of Tromsø, with different capacity requirements south and north of Tromsø. The Christian People's Party agrees that it is very important to keep control of costs. It is far from desirable for the state to pay more for the fast-haul service than today. Increased costs could affect other transport areas dependent on public service procurement, such as: Purchases of services on the Short Track Network in North Norway. Over a longer period, even what appears initially to be a modest cost increase may mean that other transport areas lose allocations. Of course that's not desirable. We may also be at risk of doing a speedy bear service if we are not concerned about keeping control of costs. If the fast route is to retain its goodwill in the future, it is important that the shipping companies extend to operate effectively. The Christian People’s Party is therefore concerned that the use of resources related to the public purchase of transport services on the Bergen–Kirkenes route should be within today’s level. We can't see that per. Today, there should be any reason why tenderers should not be able to operate with the same route structure at least as effectively as they are today in the future. Due to the socio-economic importance of the fast route, it is desirable to maintain the overall transport system of today, with daily departures from Bergen-Kirkenes. If the secondary option launched in the notification were to be selected, it would result in a significant deterioration in relation to the current concept, which is also underlined in the notification. The Christian People's Party has chosen to cooperate with the majority that only the primary option should be published. We want to point out that the secondary option, by sailing four days a week and sharing the route in Tromsø, is so much worse than today that we couldn't have stood by it if it had been realized. And if there's any sense in lighting out the secondary option, it can't be ruled out that that particular option had finally been chosen. However, I would like to stress that this is to a large extent an instrument debate and not a debate on the objectives of the fast-track policy. The Christian People's Party, like our government partners, is committed to securing today's sailing patterns at the lowest price possible. That's why we're going in to keep resource use within today's level. Nor do we think anything about the majority's comment that the matter should be referred back to Stortinget after the tendering process. It's a very unfair procedure, and in our opinion, it's pretty unclear what the different parties put in this remark. I hope that this debate will clarify it. We're already under time pressure in relation to ESA's demands, and in the Christian People's Party, we're concerned that the process should not be further delayed. As a major representative from Nordland, I am pleased that an overall Committee on Transport has so clearly underlined the importance of the fast route offer, and that there is unanimity to continue to spend government money on the purchase of transport services on the Bergen–Kirkenes route. It means a lot to my state and my part of the country. Let us hope that the proud tradition of a continuous daily route between Bergen and Kirkenes can continue for many years to come!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e544	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e547	The government, including the Christian People's Party, first entered an option 2 - a split box. I'm happy for the turnaround of the Christian People's Party. I think the representative of Sahl is too. But I'm very curious about what's happened, what's new, and who didn't know when the government put forward its proposal. As I said, I am quite provoked when the representative Sahl makes a problem because the matter is going back to Stortinget. That's what I thought was quite bold. When he knows the process in the committee and knows that he and the Christian People's Party could have prevented that, I thought it was a bold exercise. So says the Christian People's Party that the amount should be within the level we have today. Does that mean that it's absolute? If it's not absolute, what's wrong with the formula that we thought it was unfortunate that the amount should be an absolute number? So I'm looking for whether that means that the amount should be exactly what it is right now, or whether it means that it should be like this, and that it's a little bit of a swirl.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e568	I'll try short and concisely to answer the three questions. First of all, the Christian People's Party has a history of fast-tracking, so it's not an unexpected position from the Christian People's Party that we want the transport standard that we have per. today, continued. That's also why, when it formed a majority as it did, we chose to join that majority. I can't believe it surprises the opposition parties that we don't want it to run a big business. It is quite natural in such a case that it is the responsibility of the Government to decide a tendering procedure. So we've said that the amount should be within. This means that we put a strong pressure on those who are going to tender to get within what is today's level of the state's payment for high-speed services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e582	I'll follow up on what was taken up here. When you know that the Christian People's Party is in the Government and actually has the Head of Government, I think it's an impeccable way to act that you don't come up with your views in the Government until you submit the message to the Stortinget. I also think that in part it is populist when you change vision during the process. I also want to get into the tender process. There is no majority in the Committee in any way in terms of the cost of driving the fast route in the future. It is the Stortinge which, through the budgets, adopts the State budget, and is it not right for the Stortinge to be presented with what costs are actually required to continue the fast route? It does not have to be passed on at any cost. Where does the border of the Christian People's Party go? That would have been interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e591	It is amazing to hear that the representative Kenneth Svendsen of the Progress Party has now found out that the Christian People's Party is populist, when we continue the policy that we have been pursuing over a long period of time in the matter of the Rapid Route, while the Progress Party has now been gallantly changing policy in this area because it could be populist at the moment. So that's not my choice. We have heights below the roof also in the government fraction, and in relation to the concerns of Kenneth Svendsen about the ratio within the fraction, I can say that it is still the very best. There's nothing unknown that the Progress Party wants to run big business. That is what those who have not been in government before want. Perhaps the pipe will get another song that day the Advance Party may be in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e600	No more people have asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e603	It is not without reason that a journey with a fast route can be proudly marketed as the most beautiful voyage in the world. It applies here at home, but also on the international tourism market. Quick route as good, old, well-known Norwegian brand is and becomes a tourist magnet. There are not a few great experiences that you can get by taking a fast route, where Norwegian nature is at its best on the road northwards and southwards, night as a day – everything from the Jugendstilen one gets to experience the timane ship lies at berth in Kristiansund, to the experience of midnightssola's kingdom at the sight of the polar circle globe at half past seven in the morning, and to the green, crystal clear water one experiences by stretching over the line as the ship passes through the throne and shallow Risøren after turning into the Churches. Or what about the experience of the 87 tins in the Romsdalsalpane in the panoramic view of the ship when there is a berth in Molde? A trip on the fast route offers many great natural experiences, and perhaps the most special of all is the northern lights one at a time. Seeing the northern lights makes many people feel like a pure adventure, and it looks like a laser show over the sky. The northern lights seen from the sea are something very special. Unfortunately, I have not been able to take a fast route from Bergen to the Church, but I have traveled a few shorter trips, and I know that I will take that trip. Both the short trips and not least the involvement in this matter have given me even more desire to take such a trip, to experience everything I have now described, and much, much more. So for over 100 years, the fast route has been part of our culture along the coast. The fast route visits 34 ports on the way north and south, and each port has its own special history to live in, and not least daily life at the berth, in the city. This makes the quick way a very special Norwegian brand and a unique tourist product. But the fast panel is much more than that. The fast route also represents an essential daily means of transport for the population along the route. The fast route transports goods and people on the whole route and has a large security and surveillance role. This is important for the whole coast, but is particularly important for the northernmost part of the country. So the fast route represents entirely necessary communication along our coast, and good communication is a driving force for construction. Over 110 years, the fast-moving route has been very central to urban and industrial development, which has found its way along the coast. Changes in route structure would, therefore, have a negative impact on industry, the coastal population in general, tourism and cultural life at the relevant sites. Therefore, for us in the Workers' Party, it is a completely natural choice to say no to the outline and weakening of the Quick Panel, as the Government enters into its proposal with a possible split grid. It would destroy a lot, a lot. Only the thought of this has upset the coast. The Labour Party believes that all-year sailing and today's route structure are absolutely necessary. Among other things, coastal communities have largely based their business life on their day-to-day calls. It provides a safe and holistic transport option for goods and people along our coast. A decision on the choice of route structure 2 would, in our opinion, lead to a weakening of its function as a good travel product and an environmentally friendly transport system for goods and people. And it is quite unmistakable that the northernmost part of the country would get a speedboat instead. I would remind you that during the treatment of the national transport plan, it was last said that there is an extensive objective of getting more freight from road to sea and rail. The government's proposal for an alternative route structure also does not depend on that goal. The working party therefore believes that the fast route's sailing pattern should be maintained as today, and that option 1 with a coherent route Bergen-Kirkenes based on today's route structure with day-to-day all-year sailing is selected. We are pleased that we are part of a number that now secures its existing sailing pattern. This provides the basis for maintaining a good quality of what is not only a good travel product, but a historically important factor for business and coastal settlement. We can best take care of a good means of communication on which the inhabitants of the coast depend. The coast can now exhale easily. We maintain the fast route – a means of communication for people and goods in the West and northwards, a cruise offer with a unique combination of tourism and daily living. This is the world's finest cruise ship a high time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e640	The high-speed route is an important part of the transport offer on the Bergen–Kirkenes coastline, but also has a significant impact on the overall social and economic development of this coastal route. Not only the Government and the Storting, but the whole nation is committed to ensuring the fast route as a transport offer and travel life product. The fast route is a national clenodium and a brand of great international value. The fast route offers a magnificent and radiant voyage of sea which is rightly called “The world’s most beautiful Sea Trip”. It offers an amazing tour that goes from Bergen and the West to the North of the Churches and the Arctic. Therefore, the right hand and the government see it as desirable and important to maintain the fast route. In order to maintain the current transport standard, the Government proposes that transport services continue to be purchased on the route between Bergen and Kirkenes. The current Quick Route Agreement involves a State payment of 170 million. 1999-krone per year. years or approx. 200 million. 2004-krona. This Agreement expires on 31 December 2004. The government primarily proposes that the country continue to purchase a continuous route Bergen-Churches based on today’s route structure with daily and full-year sailings within today’s level of subsidies. This, of course, is also right-wing. The Government proposes that this box be suspended on the basis of a tendering procedure. It is important and necessary to control the state allocations for the high-speed route in order to ensure the overall best possible use of State resources for transport purposes. If maintaining today's scheduled services involves increased costs, this could affect other modes of transport that depend on state service purchases or other transport investments. In order to ensure that the state payment does not become unnecessarily high, the Government proposes that a secondary alternative with a route Bergen-Tromsø and a route Tromsø-Kirkenes be published at the same time, each with four departures per. week all year. In addition, it may be appropriate to strengthen the offer north of Tromsø by speedboat and air route. The Government proposes to select a continuous route from Bergen-Kirkenes with full-year and daily sailings if the need for grants is within the current level of the grant. Right supports the Government's proposal to primarily continue the current navigation pattern for the fast route, and the proposal for a reduced sailing pattern if the need for grants by continuing the current sailing pattern exceeds the current level of grants. We note that the bulk of population opens up to raise the state grant to current sailing patterns and that they are opposed to announcing the secondary option. The position of the majority reduces the possibility of keeping the level of grants at or below the current level. The consequences may be that funds need to be taken from other transport tasks in order to finance the rapid transit routes. In that case, this would be an unfortunate effect. The majority would also like the matter to be brought before the Stortinget in an appropriate form before the conclusion of a new contract. This could further delay an already tight approach to the tendering process and increase the risk of the termination of the existing agreement before the establishment of a new agreement. Therefore, the right does not want a proposal where the matter has to be returned to Stortinget. As mentioned above, the Right considers that the use of resources related to public purchases of this transport service should be within today’s level and that this is ensured in the manner stated by the Government in its main message. When the majority does not support the Government's approach, the Right takes note of it and will stress the need for the grant of current sailing patterns not to increase. The setting adopted today by Stortinget will make it more demanding to set up a new fast route agreement before the deadline expires, than it would have been if one had followed the Government's arrangements. When the Government's arrangements do not come to an end, the right-wing vote for the option will be taken to call for tenders. The right will stress that we are behind the Council of State in her demanding work to achieve the best possible fast-haul agreement based on the premises that are being made here today in Stortinget. The right will also be constructive, predictable and recognisable in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e679	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e682	I want to ask the representative, Mr. Hoddevik, why it is so important for the Right to stand at the Government's suggestion on a route option 2 in terms of the pattern of sailing, when you know what kind of rebellion this has created along the coast, and the uncertainty this has led to, and when you have also got a split in the Government. I'm a little curious about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e687	I would like to refer to my post, where I have clearly emphasised that the Right objective is to maintain today's sailing pattern for a high-quality fast route offer, as we all want. With regard to the proposal on alternative sailing patterns, it is only a necessary tool, as we see it, to have cost control of the tendering process that we all agree on. What's the problem in this process, as we see it, is that the majority can't show up with a similar tool to have cost control. And then we still have to see what kind of results we get. It has been imperative for us to stand firm on the well-thought-out arrangement that the Government has, where the rice behind the mirror would be an alternative sailing pattern to maintain the pattern we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e696	There are several things I could get hold of, but there are two things I'm going to deal with. Mr Hoddevik stated that the majority was in favour of increasing the need for grants. I want to ask, where does it say? One of the reasons why the Progress Party has said that the matter is to be brought back to Stortinget after the tendering process is that we do not want to take a decision on that question at this point in time. As far as I know, there is no majority to increase the need for grants. In this case, it must be a majority of the governmental parties and the Workers' Party. The Party for Progress shall not participate in such a majority. – So I would like to know where this is. So Hoddevik says that the government's arrangement is the only blessing in limiting the costs/cost side. It is only then to state that the Right, which has been a party that has talked about competition and offers to limit price growth, has now gone away from it. This does not apply to competition as a price-reducing instrument in society. What will be the next area where the Right goes away from competition as a tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e705	We read the setting so that when the comments in the setting bear a message that a ceiling on the cost of the sailing pattern is undesirable, there is a clear opening for the price to go up, and no signal whatsoever that it is possible to get the price down. It is true that the Progress Party and the Right very often agree on opening up competition and tenders, and there are good instruments in a market where there is real competition. The competition we see regarding today's sailing patterns for the fast route is taking place in a very slippery market. From this point of view, the right-wing principle is that there may in reality be a private monopoly as real competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e712	My question concerns the same theme. What is particularly important here is the introduction of a new practice in the area of high-speed services, in the purchase of transport services, in relation to other transport areas. It's not like you're going to go out with a crown sum initially, and then you say that if you exceed this crown amount, the offer should be reduced. It is not a practice we use when it comes to public purchases on the railways, on the short-distance network or on national road transport operations. But also in these areas, we want cost control, we want to keep costs down. My question is: what makes the Right and the Government conclude that when it comes to the purchase of high-speed services, you have to go out with a price tag in advance, when you don't want to follow that practice in the other transport areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e721	This is going to be multiple turns on the same screw, and we might have to be prepared for that. It is such that the outside world has demanded that we have an open and verifiable process in relation to the fast way. There has been no particular objection to the fact that tenders are an effective way of doing this, and perhaps that is the only way to solve it. Then it is that when the market does not exist to the extent that we wish, the government has looked for alternative ways to keep cost control. It is a very thoughtful solution in which an operable offer has been flagged, but not as desirable as the real rice behind the mirror, in order for the companies we have today to show moderation in their operations. This is necessary, but we also support that proposal when the majority is clear, and should help to achieve the best possible solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e730	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e733	When VDS, Vesteraalen’s Steam Ship Company, launched the ‘Vesteraalen’ fast-track ship in 1893, it was after a tendering process decided by Stortinget. Since then, the rapid route has been treated several times in the Stortinget, but unfortunately based on agreements, which has given many strange outcomes and heavy costs both for the fast route and the taxpayers. It's kind of nice to look at history and Storting's participation in decisions about how the fast route should be in the future. On 22 September 1978 St.meld. No 19, about Hurtigruten Bergen–Kirkenes, presented. This message ended with a comprehensive discussion on the type of ship. It actually ended up that the type of ship was ‘designed’ at the committee’s table. The construction site, financing solution and even engine manufacturing were in fact decided on in the Committee on Transport. After a long debate, the fast-track companies got the impression that there were not Wickman engines in the boats, as the committee wanted, but a Bergens diesel that the companies wanted. The result was «Narvik», «Midnatsol» and «Vesteraalen», which came in 1982/83. They were significantly more expensive than intended and had to be rebuilt later. It's a good proof that all skills are not present in the Storting, even though some people like to believe it. In April 1990 came St.meld. No 39, About the transport standard along the coast from Bergen to Kirkenes. The Communication actually proposed that the fast route should be closed and replaced by fast boats and roads. The size decided, by a very limited majority, to give the rapid route a conversion package of 11 years. In December 1999, the Stortinget adopted a five-year agreement. It was also clarified that the current fast route was to be maintained throughout the transport planning period, up to and including 2011. The contractual period was later shortened to three years due to ESA. Now I'm not going to take any credit on behalf of the Progress Party because the fast route is what it is now, because it would be a history falsification. But I don't think the rest of the parties are going to take the big credit when you look at the development of the fast-track route the ten following years after 1978, after the famous decisions in which the committee was to choose both restaurant solutions and engine options, with subsequent failure in the number of passengers. This shows the need for companies themselves to take responsibility for the products they want to use and for policy makers to keep their hands on details. In the case of the Contracting Party, tenders and competition are particularly important instruments for carrying out transport operations. Of course, it is not the case, as some claim, that the Contracting Party wishes to submit a tender for the part of the tender. In the case of the Procedural Party, tenders are an instrument to reduce prices, which in turn leads to lower costs for taxpayers. In addition, contrary to previous negotiations, open competition allows other players to participate in the competition. Therefore, the Progress Party is in favour of the submission which concludes with the use of tenders; it is in line with the policy of the Progress Party. But when you first select tenders, you do it in a very special way. They say that you prefer a continuous route, while the department says that you want a split-up offer. It's unprofessional in my opinion. A tender should not be made which is no more than a right of retreat that is not really desired. Tenders as forms of purchase are undermined when a light is published which you really do not want. Norway, in my view, risks scaring away any new actors from such practices. In my view, it would be better to publish one tender, so to reject this if the Storting does not want to pay this cost. From the Ministry, a tendering period of eight years shall be opened. I think that makes sense. Possibly it should have been all the way up for ten to twelve years. The background to this is that new players who want to enter this market depend on a long depreciation period to invest in capital goods, as is the case. The longer, the bigger I think the possibility of competition is. I believe one of the reasons that competition on the regional aviation network is little is just the tendering time. We shouldn't make the same mistake here. Since I'm in the regional aviation network, it's interesting to see which passengers travel with what. The experience we have from the short-distance network is that prices are high, although I am aware that Onkøe has incorporated a new price concept with lower prices. It's mainly public servants, people going to hospitals, and business travelers, and common to most of them is that others pay the bill. My experience with the fast route is different. If you look at the passenger group that travels domestically, there is a large proportion of ‘common’ people. You can see a lot more families and older people, that is. those who pay for the journey themselves. The development of the passenger base of the fast route is one of the reasons why the Progress Party is more positive to the fast route now than before. If we look at the evolution of passenger traffic from the high-speed route in the 1960s and partly in the 1970s, where it varied between 500,000 and 600,000 passengers per year, to the dramatic decline of the late 1970s, to a stable low level beyond the 1980s and early 1990s, we see that growth is coming, a rather strong growth. In 2002, we were at about the same level as in the best years of the 1960s, i.e. 500,000–600 000 passengers per year. In the case of freight transport, most of it is commercial. But even if that's the case, the sailing pattern of the fast route fills an important function. There are no major problems in sending goods from Bergen to Ålesund, or from Trondheim to Bodø, or for that matter from Bergen to Kirkenes. But there may be major problems in sending goods from Nesna to Svolvær, or from Rørvik to Nesna, or to other «uncurant» routes along the coast. In this area, the navigational patterns of the fast route fulfil an important function. Unfortunately, it looks like some of the municipalities that depend most on the fast route, and the municipalities that cry out loudest that the fast route needs to be rescued every time there is a change in sailing patterns, are also the ones that are most inventive in filling the port register with port charges. I think it's sad. It should be the opposite. It should be such that the local authorities were more likely to reduce the costs of accessing the fast route. This would help to ensure that the fast route continued to go, simply because the public subsidy needs fell. To put it straight: although the Progress Party wants the fast route to continue to follow the old pattern from Bergen to Kirkenes, both in terms of frequency and standard, it should not be done at any price. Therefore, it has been important for the Progress Party that the Stortinget has the opportunity to intervene if the tender is too high, i.e. that the Progress Party will return to the level when this is submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner, but before the contract is signed, as the majority of the Storting expressly stated in the submissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e765	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e768	As the representative was in the room, there's a mass mass that today will be in favour of the sailing pattern we have. It's nice that the Progress Party is now part of the plural that secures this. As the representative Svendsen said, there's a little bit different history in the different parties, but we can put that behind us. The representative Svendsen is also very busy that it should not cost too much. Then I thought it was a little strange that the Progress Party could not at least be involved in giving a clear signal that there would be a ceiling on how much the state would pay. The representative Svendsen wants to sue the Stortinget to save money, he says. At the same time, the Progress Party notes that the majority “considers it unfortunate to put an absolute ceiling on the purchase of fast-haul services by the State.” Does this mean that the Progress Party may also be at a right cost than the current level?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e780	The representative Løvik and others have been involved in the history of the Progress Party in terms of the fast route. In fact, one of the reasons why the Progress Party has historically opposed the purchase of fast route services is that it has been negotiating with the company and has not opened up open competition. We believe that an open competition will help to reduce the price. As I said in my post, it is such that I will not be able to accept any of the offers that come in. But to set a roof or a level today I will not do, because there is something the Advance Party's group will decide on. We haven't dealt with a possible roof in the group, just the principle that we want it advertised, and we have done that now. We'll get back to it when it's treated properly in the group.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e787	This is a follow-up to the same question. The representative Svendsen has previously said in his post that the Progress Party does not take the credit for the fast route. That's absolutely right. The Progress Party has gone against allocations to the Quick Route. If the Progress Party had had had an impact on its policy, the rapid route had not existed as it appears today. But we're recording a change of course, and we think that's positive. It would be interesting to hear a little more concrete about whether the Progress Party will at all be involved in the public purchase of fast-track transport services in the years to come. Do you agree to grant money for this service at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e792	What I said before, that the Progress Party has not been involved in giving support in negotiations to the Quick Route, is quite correct. As I also said before, the basis for this was that we want tenders and free competition where we do not specialise in certain companies, but that every company that wants to give a price should be involved. Then the representative Hansen also stated that the fast route would not be what it is today if the policy of the Progress Party had gone through. Yeah, that's possible, but I'm not so sure. It is so that companies can develop in a reasonable and good way even if the state is not involved. And then it's nothing new that the Progress Party is involved in buying services. I just want to make the hall aware that the Advance Party was the ones who secured the short-haul network at the same frequency as today, and that was when purchasing services. As I also said before, in terms of price and level, I will come back to it when it has been through a thorough treatment in our group.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e799	There is no criticism in what I said about the Progress Party, on the contrary, just glad that there is a mass accumulation that will contribute to the state ensuring a full supply of the fast route. When I sum up what the representative Svendsen has said in his post, in reply to replies and in replies to others, I am still very uncertain about this with cost control. I understand the representative Svendsen so that the Progress Party will also have a control over the costs here, based on that, among other things. The representative Sahl said in his statement that we should not do a fast-moving service because the costs now flow beyond all the fields. But the representative Svendsen doesn't answer the question in my previous line, and I want to repeat the question: can it be that the Progress Party will go beyond today's level? So the representative Svendsen won't rule that out? That's the real question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e804	Since the committee leader added to a very friendly tone that we could enjoy together that we have agreed that the fast route should be continued, I would like to take part in that joy. It is also a pleasure for me that the fast route now has to be offered, where the Progress Party once again reaches one of its targets, and that we get the same frequency and standard as today. So to this with cost control, as there have been some questions around, and that have been part of the debate. It surprises me that those questions come from the right-hand side. The right hand side and the Progression Party have repeatedly, including in the case of the Short-Rail Network, gone out and used tenders as a means of pressuring the price down, and that is exactly what we are doing this time as well. There has been no other roof when we have made a bid. It's actually abnormal to put a roof when you put something out on the offer. A market price shall be established in the market. So to the last question about the price of the offer. If the representatives of Storting ask me until it's dark tonight, they're going to get the same answer: we're going to deal with that in the group.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e813	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e816	There is a broad majority in the Committee on Transport behind the decision that the fast route will continue to follow today's sailing patterns, with 34 calls from Bergen to Kirkenes. That's what's fast route, coast highway no. 1, which represents an important part of the history of the coast between Bergen and Kirkenes. It is this journey that has become Norway’s most famous travel product in the world – a success story without equal. The government's proposal to publish a secondary tender if the price would exceed the current budgetary level is what has created the most debate in this case, and it is this proposal that has produced the strongest reactions along the coast. The government proposes four weekly sailings instead of seven, as it is today, and divided route – Bergen – Tromsø and Tromsø – Kirkenes. It's not a fast route, it's a fast route exit option. The proposal is, in my opinion, syllabled. There is no evidence that there would be a more reasonable solution for the State, which is the starting point and the motivation for the proposal. The social consequences are not determined either. For this reason, all hearing bodies have rejected the proposal; the coastal communities, especially in North Norway, municipalities and organisations. It is documented in the report of the Institute of Transport Economics, on the basis of which the fast-track service has a major impact on the transport of goods and passengers along the coast, particularly in North Norway. North of Tromsø, the fast route represents an independent transport option, and several locations in Finnmark are the quick route the only transport options for goods. In addition to the transport function, the fast route has a high social benefit in terms of business, regional development and preparedness. These are aspects that have been ill-lit in the matter. When the Government has then proposed to provide a secondary alternative if the price would exceed SEK 170 million. 1999-kr, i.e. a certain amount of kroner, is a different procedure in relation to public purchases of transport services in other areas. It is not that one by public purchase e.g. on the short-distance network shall reduce the offer or cut in the number of aerodromes if the price is to exceed a certain amount of krone, rather in the case of the purchase of rail or national road passenger transport services. I would also like to comment that it is proposed to use a tender. It's the first time in the case of the hotspot. The background is the ESA’s requirement to purchase transport services based on an open process, which shall be verifiable and non-discriminatory. ESA has not requested the use of tenders. It is a weakness in the case that alternatives to tenders have not been determined. It is not obvious that tenders will be the best solution in this case, when the objective is to obtain the service at the lowest price possible. OVDS and TFDS have announced that they will submit a joint bid. It is not obvious that very many other companies in Europe will submit tenders for the fast route. Those who want to make money on the Norwegian coast are already here with their cruise traffic. Therefore, I do not ignore that open negotiations would have been the best solution in this case. It should be further investigated in the context of the next contractual period. The government has suffered a defeat in this matter. The matter has been so politically anchored and prepared that the government fraction of the Committee on Transport has cracked in the matter. The right stands alone – possibly together with the Left – in its defense of the Government. It is the fast route and Coast Norway that are the winners today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e839	The fast route has been and is an important means of transport along the coast. The fast route connects the coast and is an important supply to the people of many coastal communities, both in terms of freight and passenger transport. The fast route is a means of transport that people can trust. In bad weather, the fast route has often been the only option for many communities. But the fast route is also a broader offer than just communication between coastal communities. Conference trips, which have become an ever-increasing market, find an offer on a fast route. It is also important for tourist traffic. It's a roundabout that's known among many tourists, and many come to Norway just to travel by the fast route. The fast route is therefore a brand that is good Norwegian advertising. The preliminary work on the standard of transport and the purchase of transport services on the coastal route from Bergen to Kirkenes has been carried out by Mr. TØI, who has been listening. I agree with several of the hearing authorities who have pointed out that it has been a weakness that the mandate has been limited to the standard of transport and the purchase of services. Other important societal considerations have thus not been particularly strongly integrated into the report. This applies, for example: bus services, freight services, fast-moving business, fast-moving for civil and military preparedness and fast-moving value in terms of coastal travel. I think it's hard to get a complete picture of the value of the fast panel when the mandate is defined as in the basic report. It is therefore positive that the message has focused on the societal concerns that have been highlighted by several hearing bodies. Of course, one should consider the fast route towards other transport services on the Bergen-Kirkenes route. Of course, one should also pay attention to the state’s propensity to the fast panel. Large government proponents to the high-speed route could go beyond other provision of transport in the districts. But that's why it's especially important that we don't focus on a few social considerations when we're going to evaluate the fast way. The center party believes that one has to evaluate the fast path based on the cumulative value of this offer. In order for the fast route to continue to maintain its status as a good and attractive supply to large parts of the coast, it is decisive that we do not rock that sailing pattern and the available fast route stands for today. When the Government has an alternative arrangement with a route Bergen-Tromsø and a route Tromsø-Churches, where these routes do not have daily sailing, this is an unobtrusive offer that is far worse than today. The question of such a scheme is whether this will be a service that meets the transport needs of local communities that depend most on the fast route, both for passenger transport and freight transport. When it says in the message that by this option it may be relevant to strengthen the offer north of Tromsø by speedboat and air route, yes, then the Government itself has a negative answer to the question whether this is an adequate alternative. In other words, the government believes that the shared solution option without daily tours will not meet the needs of the communities in the north. It is therefore strange that the Government believes that a shared solution can be a current option, and that the Right supports this option in the setting. For tourists and round-trip passengers, this split option would clearly be a less attractive arrangement than today’s fast route offer, which would probably lead to fewer passengers in this category. A non-coherent round trip offer will not attract passengers to the current level. The center part thinks the quick route should continue as a suitable alternative, with a route pattern that today and with daily sailing. But, of course, there must be government purchases of services that are at a realistic but lowest level. I can't see that there's a big difference between the formulations used by the majority and those used by the two government parties when they say that the resource use should be within the current level. There is no "shall" in the comments of the two government parties. The centre batch has noticed that the transport service is now to be offered. I also feel that it is natural that the sum for the purchase of services is not finally determined in advance. The center doesn't want us to set an absolute ceiling on the purchase of services, but that the level should be kept as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e860	The representative Steinar Bastisen is next on the list of speakers. The President cannot see that he is present in the Chamber. We will then proceed to the next speaker, Councillor Torild Skogsholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e863	Initially, I would like to express my satisfaction that the message has received such a rapid response in Stortinget. This is important, because it is urgent to move forward in the work on a new agreement. I share the Committee's view that a good transport standard on the route between Bergen and Kirkenes is important for settlement and value creation along the coast. It is therefore desirable to maintain the route structure at today's level, as we have said in the communication. My assessment, however, is that one cannot assess the transport standard independently of the costs of the purchase of services. I am afraid that there may be few providers to a continuous route. Therefore, two alternative calls were proposed. Through competition, I wanted to test the market for a reduced frequency offer, and with different capacity requirements south and north of Tromsø. I record that the number of committees believes that a continuous route is so important that it does not want an alternative with a divided route and a reduced frequency. Of course, in the event of a call for tenders, the views of the majority of the committee will be followed up. I am committed to making the most efficient use of resources for the purchase of transport services in general, and for the fast way in particular. Not least the high need for increased investment in infrastructure in the transport sector, both for road, rail, ports and traffic controllers, suggests that we must avoid increasing resources agreeing to purchase the same transport services as before. In the message, I therefore assumed that in the future the costs should not exceed the current resource use. The two-alternative proposal was just promoted to identify and limit future resource use. The number of committees is also concerned with keeping the level of grants as low as possible. Of course, it's positive. On the other hand, the committee majority does not want to put an absolute ceiling on the government's purchase, as I have suggested. The majority, for their part, would like to be informed of the tender before the conclusion of the final contract. Of course, I will follow up on the majority's remark. However, I cannot imagine that this is a demanding arrangement, both in time and in relation to the division of labour between large-scale and government. Re-reporting could further delay a tight approach to the tendering process and increase the risk of termination of the existing agreement before a new agreement is in place. But I'll do what I can to keep pressure and pace up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e876	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e880	It was good to hear that the Council of State has intended to follow up the plurality. I had basically expected that. In the Labour Party, we've had one parole in this case, and it's that we don't want any split solution and anything reduced. So we want Option 1 -- that's our first and only parole. We're in the majority, asking to get the matter back to Stortinget, and we get it. We'll deal with it quickly. What I can't understand is that one can do so much of the difference at the «should be within the level of the day», as the Right says, and «should be within the level of the day», as the Christian People's Party says, and where an assumption is that the level of attendance is as low as possible. Wherever the difference is, I don't understand. This is made a big point, as if one were opening all the locks for money. Yes, where are the open locks? I would like to have said from this speaker that they are not particularly open. I just want it confirmed that the Council of State doesn't perceive it so that what's from the plural here means that it's free for tens or hundreds of millions more.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e891	I would like to stress that I very much appreciate recording that you do not want to open all the locks, to put it this way, in relation to subsidies for this transport offer. I take with me what I think is the attitude, that you want to keep a reasonable level of grants, given today's sailing patterns. I take that as an important signal for me. I also suggest that we have a good standard even after today's solution, but as we say in the message, it should not be relevant to pay more than today. That means that we really want a solution as cheap as possible, and I think that's a bit of the point of having competition. The reason why we went for two alternatives was that then you're going to find out if it's possible to get this more reasonable than what you can get with an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e896	The majority of the committee, which does not consist of the government parties, but of the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, forces the government to come back to the Stortinget on this matter if it goes the wrong way, that the bid is too high. I am pleased that the Council of State today confirms that she will come back to Stortinget in a suitable way if it would be disproportionately high. So the council says there's a lot of work and a lot of treatment if you're going back to the Storting to brief. What I don't quite understand is why the Council of State is not really concerned about getting the lowest possible price, as she says, because she has the opportunity to send this matter one more time to Stortinget if it would be such a disproportionate amount. Why has the government been so living afraid, and worked very eagerly in the committee, so that this matter should not come back to the Storting? The majority consisted of the Workers' Party, SV, the Advance Party and the Center Party, who would have the matter back if it was expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e903	Firstly, it takes a long time both to prepare and to carry out a tendering process, a process that we intend to put a great deal of pressure on for it to go quickly, because we need to get a new agreement in place quickly. It is different from us who have set the limits for how fast it must go. It also makes that if we are to run a new preparatory round in relation to Stortinget, it will take time. It may even happen that the Storting is not even assembled. It'll be extra demanding. In addition, if Stortinget doesn't think that the offer you have received is good enough, it again raises some questions that make us even more challenging than time. All of these assessments we have to think through in advance because there are no leads from the Storting for how to solve it. If we had two alternatives to assume, we would have had more to work with. We don't have that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e915	Also in the case of SV, the starting point is that you have to pay no more than the cost of the service. This also applies to all areas of intra-traffic transport, even if not all points are offered. My question is why the option of 'open negotiations' or negotiated solutions has not been further explored. You might think you're getting an offer, and then the government's proposal for plan a and plan b would be far above what we're paying today. So what's the situation going to be? Why has alternative negotiations not been investigated, because ESA has not requested tenders?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e922	Once they have been led by ESA, they have taken the view that there should be open, transparent processes involving a competition. Whether there should be tenders or other forms of competition where others can come in is, of course, an assessment question. Tenders are a clean process. You have a system that you can follow that is first of all transparent, and also so that others can participate in such a round. Finding such intermediate solutions is very, very demanding. It is thus not so easy to see what the process has been like in retrospect, and what kind of criteria have been put into focus. In a tendering process you define it in advance, and then everyone knows what you have to assume.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e927	I would first like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Council of State has been able to say from the fact that the majority of the population's views will be followed up. But then I get a little curious about the process of what has been going on, when, in the case of the Storting, there is so much emphasis on option 2, which should be with and keep costs down, and which also Right has put so much emphasis on in its comments. When the Government in Option 2 says that it might be appropriate to set up boat routes, possibly several routes north of Tromsø, would it be said that there was an alternative that would also stay within the current costs of the fast route? Or is it just throwing forward an alternative that could have led to far different costs than what we see today?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e932	Of course, it is the total costs that need to be assessed in such an option 2. There have been many skeptical objections to it, and it may well be with good reason. It may well be that that sailing pattern will be much more expensive. We don't know what economies of scale this could have meant, and what it would have cost in relation to quick boat solutions and flight routes. But what was the point for us was to get it on the table and figure it out. It could be that option 1 would be the most reasonable, but per. Today and in the future, we won't know, because we won't be able to reveal those costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e937	Does the Council not see that, in the context of a split up of the sailing pattern, parts of today's passenger and freight services would have to travel by bus and coach and have a negative impact on the environment? That is not the objective of the Council of State's environmental policy, is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e942	It is absolutely right that from an environmental point of view, we are engaged in transferring both freight and passenger transport from road to sea and rail. Now the path is not the most important option here. But as far as maritime transport is concerned, I have to say that, in relation to the number of long-distance passengers, this will not give the big impact on the environment, which we have as a major challenge. In the case of goods, much of it will still go by the fast route. It will be a more heavy release, because you have to change in Tromsø. But we don't yet know the meaning of this, and we're not going to go further with that model. That's why we're not going to find out. But in general, I am not afraid that it will lead to a significant transition back to road transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e950	The cord shift is over. Steinar Bastesen – who once again was too late for the time he was on the list of speakers. This has to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e955	I came a little close to the last team. The council came before me, but I thank you for giving me the floor now. Fast route is an important life source for many coastal communities, and it is of central importance for the marketing of Norway. Yes, it is perhaps the only marketing element that Norway has, and that is publicly funded. We used to have the Norwegian Export Council, but there's not much to marketing Norway. The fast route is a very good marketing element, and I think it can still be. The fast route is also part of the work to get more transport from road to sea where it is possible. When we talk about road-to-sea transport: the lake is maintenance-free. There it is «asphalt» throughout the year. The only one that can break the sea is the stretcher. The statistics say we have it quieter than we have stretchers, so it's a huge deal. Standby considerations also suggest that we should bet on the fast route. That makes sense. The boats have gradually become very large and cannot be compared with the old fast routes. With was in its time the first to sail along the coast, and it is not the same fast routes now as the time. Time is now moving on. We've got big speedboats. They've almost become called cruise ships. But it's a good offer for the locals. I am pleased that the Committee has agreed that we should keep the sailing pattern and that there should still be an offer for the local population. That's the most important thing, that we have an offer for the local population, and that the state is involved in financing it. In order to further develop the fast route, it is important to ensure adequate means of operation. That the Committee on Transport has been in favour of the sailing pattern is very good, and I am in favour of it. It's a cross of thought that it's only profitability, which I was in the past post, which should be the basis for the continued existence of the fast route. I say it this way, because today we experience that boats go from port to port with foreign crews who do not have a work permit and a residence permit. It's illegal, but we accept it. We have the means to put in place controls, but we don't. We have both the police and the Coast Guard who can control it. But they don't, because they're told not to. Can we accept that? It's a matter of time before it becomes cheap labour on board the fast route as well. If we don't say anything about it, if we don't do anything about it, it's the profitability alone that's going to decide if we're going to run one or the other, it's also going to be a time question when there's going to be cheap labor on the fast way. We can't accept that. We're in the EEA, and we can make demands. We can set directives and say that there should be Norwegian standards and Norwegian salaries, also for what is state-funded. At the same time, I have to ask whether we really want it so that it is the foreigners who are going to take over all the coastal traffic and also the fast route. We are part of the EEA Agreement, and it is a debate that is going on whether we are going to be part of the European Union. Are foreign shipping companies going on the coast? Is the foreign cruise ship to take over the role of the fast route? You have to be aware of what you're doing, if it's said yes. I have no problems supporting the setting that exists, and I am going to do so in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e976	Today we are dealing with an important matter, which affects many of us in this country. The Hurtigruten is an important part of the transport standard on the Bergen–Kirkenes coastline, but also has a significant impact on the other societal and economic development of this coastal route. One of the trademarks of the fast route is that it combines cruise with freight and coastal transport. Everyone can deliver a cruise product along the Norwegian coast, but I think the fast route can only stop in 34 ports between Bergen and Kirkenes to deliver people and goods and form an important part of the Norwegian infrastructure. The crew on the boats have noticed on each trip that some of the things that, among other things, is very interesting to the tourists, the unloading of goods in each port. This carries the command of life in our long country along the coast. The fast route thus represents a good overall transport option for goods and passengers, and it is a good travel product with a high number of tourists as users. It's not without reason that the fast route can be sold as a good Norwegian brand in all parts of the world. It's well-known. This is precisely why it is so important that we, as politicians, do what we can to maintain quality and facilitate the continuation of the quality stamp. For us in the Workers' Party, it has therefore been essential to maintain today's sailing pattern. The proposal on today's sailing patterns has caused concern around the coast, and I believe the Government's proposal for route structure as set out in option 2 would lead to a reduction and fragmentation of the offer and a weakening of the fast route. It has also repeatedly been shown that the fast route, with its sailing pattern, has played a significant role in preparedness, among other things. weathering periods. In addition, the fast route, with its relatively large passenger capacity, is included as an important response factor for coastal municipalities, inter alia. Finnmark. The Hurtigruten is an important part of the transport standard on the Bergen–Kirkenes coastline, but also has a significant impact on the other societal and economic development of this coastal route. It represents a good overall transport option for goods and passengers as well as a good tourism product with a high number of tourists as users. The Workers' Party therefore believes that the sailing patterns of the fast route should be maintained as today, and that option 1 should be chosen, so that we get a still good overall offer, with all-year-old sailings Bergen–Kirkenes, based on today's structure. We are therefore included in the majority to ensure that today's fast-track services are maintained. The Workers' Party disagrees with the Government that an absolute ceiling should be set on the state's purchase of high-speed services to the current level, as we are of the opinion that this could threaten the possibility of maintaining the operating pattern that we have today and that we want to keep. However, I would like to clarify, as it has been done earlier today, that it must be a prerequisite that the level of grants should be kept as low as possible and that there should be specific reasons to increase the grant beyond the current level. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the level of aid is realistic and at a level that ensures predictability and adequate quality of supply. But, in our opinion, it would be wrong to set a roof at today's level. In our opinion, the government’s tender solution is part of the EEA Agreement’s rules of procedure. In the context of tenders, it is important to have as much predictability as possible around the conclusion of the contracts. The Labour Party sees the need for long-term contracts and supports the proposal for a contract period of eight years for the tender. In addition, we ask the Government to return to Stortinget with a briefing on the tender before the conclusion of contracts. Finally and briefly summarised: the Hurtigruten has its strength as a complete transport system. This system covers a wide range of travel needs. The coastal population is supplied with regular freight transport and the system is a unique tourist product. That is why, as a representative of the Nordic countries, I am pleased today that we are maintaining the fast route as it is today and with today's sailing pattern. Then I'm not so concerned about what's most populist. Then I am concerned that it speaks in favour of the matter and benefits it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e999	I wished to speak in this debate to express what I have heard of reactions in many coastal communities to the future of the fast-moving route at the time when there has been uncertainty about the outcome of this matter. Many people around the country have been waiting for today’s clarification. There is reason to recall that the fast route serves everything from big cities, small towns and towns to very small coastal communities with a marginal transport offer. Many coastal communities have few other transport options. These too can be uncertain for the future. I feel that there has been an uncertainty about the future of the fast route that our coastal community should have been spared, and that has not exactly contributed to greater security for housing and business. As you know, many coastal communities have more than enough challenges to address, whether or not to create uncertainty about something as central as the fast route. Option 2 of the Government talks about dividing the sailing patterns of the fast route into two, Bergen-Tromsø and Tromsø-Kirkenes, and talks about strengthening the offer north of Tromsø by fast boat and air routes. This reminds me more of theories than of a professional assessment of what serves coastal communities, and what is practical and economically feasible. What kind of savings is there in such an alternative? Can anyone answer that? I wonder who has assessed and given advice on the use of fast boat between Tromsø and Kirkenes as an alternative to the fast route of winter. Is this done by people who know the weather conditions of this coastline, and who know what kind of transport you need in the area? Or is it just a money question? I also wonder that the government proposes a one-year cut in the short-haul network, while the second year is to strengthen the flight offer after first reducing the speed route's sailing pattern. This is very small, and only shows that there is a need for a more comprehensive treatment of the situation and the framework conditions for our coastal communities, as the Labour Party has mentioned earlier. I cannot believe that, with its presence along the coast, the Right can bring about a worse alternative to the fast route. I don't want the government spending to be too high either, but I can't imagine creating such a degree of uncertainty for our coastal communities of fear of going a few more dollars out of the treasury. The offer must also have a good standard both on a regular and quality basis and be predictable. This is about future settlement along the coast, and it should also understand the Right Party. I think it is good that the Christian People's Party and the case rapporteur Jan Sahl have broken with the government partner Right in this important case for Coast Norway. I am also pleased that the Progress Party has now adopted a different position and has realised the importance of the Quick Route. It hasn't always been like that. The fast route is unique in many ways. It is a great means of getting people and goods to our coastal communities, and it has a great appeal to tourists who will come to Norway. At the same time, the Hurtigruten has the capacity to strongly contribute to keeping the settlement up the coast, making these areas attractive as destinations for our tourists. I now hope that peace can be created around the future of the fast route, so that the population of the affected coastal areas can use their resources to solve other major challenges created in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e1016	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e1019	One can quickly agree that this has not been a simple matter for the Christian People's Party, but it is a matter where we have a clear history, and we have the will to preserve today's sailing patterns from Bergen to the Churches. This is the very life’s nerve along the coast, summer as winter. It's tempting to say that the fast route is branded no. 1 in Norwegian tourism next to Norwegian nature. It is a well-known and valued attraction out in the wide world, and not least among Norwegian tourists and coasters. The concept is unique and should be further developed as a tourist activity, but not least linking the entire Norwegian coast from Bergen to Kirkenes. The Hurtigruten has very long traditions and shows that it manages its tasks very well. All communities along the route are served by both passenger and freight traffic. I would like to mention in particular the importance of freight transport. The number of small communities along the route is particularly dependent on the offer, which in some cases is the only communication offer available, thus contributing to continued settlement and value creation in these areas. In particular, the Christian People's Party believes it is important to continue today's system of day-to-day sailing on a continuous route from Bergen to Kirkenes. That is why we have our position. When the tender for this service is due to be cleared, the Christian People's Party expects a great deal of urgency in the tendering process, and it should in our opinion be within today's level. The Christian People's Party does not need to get this case back to Stortinget until the final contract is agreed. We believe this can be arranged between department and offer. But we have taken note of the majority requirement in the case. So we expect the level of subsidies to be kept as low as possible, and so we ask the companies that have now had these important offers to show moderation in this way, not least in terms of the total economy we know today. The level of costs is not particularly high, and I pay particular attention to the recent reduction in interest rates in relation to the need for material investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e1030	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1897]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e1038	Then we are ready to vote on the matters that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e1045	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jorunn Ringstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, from Geir-Ketil Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The proposal of the Socialist Left Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assess the consequences of introducing a system whereby only consumers who explicitly request it are to receive advertising in the form of unaddressed C mail and subscription papers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e1071	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to work to ensure that the concession requirement of 85 pst. of the A-item, up to night, relating to the national average, shall also apply to the A-item in and between the regions.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-24.ana.ud1484e1100	After the debate, the President has understood that everyone wants to vote for you. It can therefore be added together over I and II.
