ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e36	The changes to the Government on 18 June 2004 entail the following changes to the composition of the Storting: the former members of the Government of Einar Steensnæs and Ingerd Schou have taken up their seat as representatives. A number of permit applications are available: From the representatives Bent Höie, Ingmar Liones, Marit Nybakk, Hill-Marta Solberg, Inga Marte Thorkildsen and Karin S. Woldseth on leave Thursday 30 September, all to attend the 59th General Assembly of the United Nations in New YorkFrom the delegation of the Stortinges to the 111th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Geneva, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Depositary Representative Karin Andersen, on leave Thursday 30 September of the representatives Karin Andersen, Thore A. Nistad and Oddbjørg Ausdal StarrfeltFrom the representatives of Olav Aksen, Heikki Holmås and Åse Wisløff Nilsson on leave Thursday 30 September, all to participate in the General Defence Course at the Defence College On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Hedmark County: Helge Bjørnsen and Yngvar AarebrotFor Hordaland County: Pål Berberfjord, Jan Koløy and Pål KårbøFor Nordland County: Tomas NorvollFor Uppland County: Morten Ørsal JohansenFor Oslo: Ragnar Bøe Elgsaas and Akthar ChaudryFor Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad and Jan Petter RasmussenFor Vestfold County: Lars Egeland3. Pål Kårbø and Morten Ørsal Johansen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Ingmar Liones and Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e148	Helge Bjørnsen, Yngvar Aarebrot, Pål Bererfjord, Jan Koløy, Pål Kårbø, Tomas Norvoll, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Ragnar Bøe Elgsaas, Akthar Chaudhry, Inger Lise Aarrestad, Jan Petter Rasmussen and Lars Aegean are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e153	The President will propose the election of the President-in-Office of the European Parliament today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Stortinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e163	Let me get a supplement, given the treatment of St. pp. No 83, that this is a purely technical change to the budget for the current year in the light of changes in the ministerial structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e168	The President will propose that St.prp. No 83, to which the Council of State referred, is dealt with in accordance with point (d) of the third paragraph of Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure and is taken up for consideration on the supplementary agenda today. – No objections were raised and it is deemed to have been adopted. The other propositions will be treated in an ordinary manner. A number of constitutional proposals shall be tabled, first by the representative Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e176	On behalf of Carl I. Hagen, Lodve Solholm and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to repeal the Constitutional Act § 107 on Odels- und Jässetesrecht.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e181	The representative, Steinar Bastesen, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e184	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a constitutional proposal to amend the Constitution § 26, 93 and 110d with a view to tightening up the rules on the conclusion of international agreements and to legislating the democratic system both locally and nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e189	The representative of May Britt Vihovde will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e192	I would like, on behalf of myself, to put forward proposals for the lifting of the fundamental rights of the state and – alternatively – of the state and the law of the state, cf. The Constitution § 107.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e197	The representative of Inge Wohnning will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e200	On behalf of the representative Julie Christiansen and myself, I am delighted to propose amendments to the Constitution § 93 in order to allow consent to the transfer of sovereignty to be given by a 2/3 majority if an advisory referendum has only been held.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e205	The representative of Kjell Engebretsen will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e208	On behalf of Jørgen Kosmo and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal to correct the language in a number of Fundamental Law paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e213	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e216	On behalf of Kjell Engretsen, Anita Apelthun Seele, Heidi Grande Røys, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and myself, I want to promote a constitutional proposal to legislate the local maritime administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e222	The representative, Martin Engeset, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e225	On behalf of the representatives of Inge Wohnning, Jan Tore Sanner, André Dahl and myself, I am delighted to propose amendments to the Basic Law § 54, 68, 71 and 112 on the right of dissolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e230	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e233	On behalf of the representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Per Steinar Osmundnes and myself, I have the honour to promote the Constitutional Bill on New Section 95a of the Constitution, protection of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e238	The representative, Marit Arnstad, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e241	On behalf of Åslaug Haga and myself, I would like to make proposals to amend the Constitution § 93 on a referendum.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e246	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e249	I have the honour to propose amendments to the Basic Law § 75 in order to facilitate a greater degree of stability and clarity in the policy and in the framework conditions for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e254	The representative Berit Brørby will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e257	It is an honour, on behalf of the representatives of Jørgen Kosmo, Berit Brørby, Siri Hall Arnøy, Olav Gunnar Ballo and Kjell Engretsen, to propose amendments to the Constitution § 17, 49, 73, 74 and 76-78 with a view to repealing the division of the Storting into two departments, i.e. The Odelstinget and the Laginget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e262	The representative of Ågot Valle will present two draft constitutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e266	It is a pleasure for me on behalf of the representatives Siri Hall Arnøy, Øystein Djupedal, Rolf Reikvam, Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself to propose amendments to a number of paragraphs of the Constitution which will involve the introduction of republican state form. Secondly, I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Siri Hall Arnøy, May Hansen, Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself to introduce a separate constitutional provision on protection against discrimination on grounds of sex and discrimination against minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e273	The representative, Siri Hall Arnøy, will present three draft constitutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e276	On behalf of the representatives of Ågot Valle, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, Øystein Djupedal and myself, I am pleased to make a proposal for amendments to a number of paragraphs of the Basic Law with a view to abolishing the Constitutional Law on the Church System and establishing the country's state and human rights obligations. On behalf of the representative Ågot Valle and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to amend the Constitution Section 5 with a view to abolishing the King's immunity from legal proceedings. On behalf of the representative Ågot Valle and myself, I would like to propose a new section 110d of the Constitution on the right to housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e285	The representative, Gunnar Halvorsen, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e288	I want to promote a constitutional proposal to amend the Constitution § 59.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e293	Then everyone who has submitted a proposal to amend the Constitution should have had the opportunity to make these. Constitutional proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. It appears that the Control and Constitutional Committee will have ample work to do in the next large-scale period. The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e298	It'll be a real anticlimate with a very common proposal. I am pleased to propose new rules to issue a tourist visa. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e305	The representative may be right that it could become an anti-climate. Of course, the proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e319	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 15 minutes each, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the Minister of Justice shall be given a speaking time of up to 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e330	During the period since the suspension was submitted, there has been a significant public debate on the Constitutional Paragraph. It is good, and it shows that it was wise for the committee to allow this very important matter to take place so long after the vote was taken, until the proposal is discussed in this Chamber today. I would like to take this opportunity to give the Progress Party and the Committee colleague Carl I. Hagen the honor of being too tidy, and for him to give early notice of their subsidiary voting. The parties representing the majority in the vote, having listened to some of the arguments raised in the debate this summer, have submitted an alternative proposal for a decision which we propose as a proposal for a decision instead of I in the vote. This proposal has been distributed among the representatives as proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Since the Stortinget has not been united, it has not been a practical opportunity to return the case to the Committee so that an additional position could be created that justifies and deepens the proposal. This, of course, would have been preferable. I will therefore now take some time to promote some common comments on behalf of the four parties promoting proposal No. 3, Right, Socialist Left, Christian People's Party and Left, which I will refer to as the majority in the following for simplicity. The debate in the summer has been mainly linked to the stage of censorship. The majority have noted that the proposal in the public debate has been interpreted in a variety of ways, contrary to the interpretation of the majority itself. The majority have therefore re-examined the various alternative proposals for the Constitutional Paragraph, with a view to finding a formulation that most clearly expresses the majority’s intentions. The majority refers to option 1 to the first sentence of the fourth paragraph as follows: ‘Precautionary censorship and other preventive precautions could not be used unless this is necessary to protect children and young people from the harmful effects of living images.’ The majority would point out that at no point has there been any desire to open up more censorship or any form of prior scrutiny of opinions than is the case with current constitutional provisions and with current legislation and practices. The majority have opted for a constitutional provision which provides for strict protection against pre-sensorship and sees it as clearly desirable that the new provision should have a separate paragraph to that effect. The majority would stress that there is a clear need for stronger grounds for action to be taken against an opinion through prior checking than is required to enforce responsibility afterwards. At the same time, the majority of the opinion is that the very few and little far-reaching ex ante control arrangements applicable per person. Today, as the Film Authority, the recording system for videograms, the requirements of the broadcasting concession schemes and the possibility, in special cases, of intervening in temporary additions to printed statements, should preferably not have to be changed as a result of the constitutional process itself. However, regardless of the Constitutional provisions, the Government has been open to make the pre-control of films for adults a voluntary scheme, and the majority have joined such an approach. As the majority understands the wording of option 1, the outcome of its adoption will be that this approach will result from the constitutional paragraph. The political result, that film censorship for adult films is no longer mandatory, will be the same as the government went in to do in ordinary law. The majority consider this consequence of accepting the Commission’s wording acceptable. The majority further indicate that, through legislation and practice, the State has waived preventive measures in the form of typical censorship schemes in a number of other fields: television, radio, theatre, music events, Internet newspapers, Internet websites, e-mail correspondence, etc. In a wide range of areas, the introduction or reintroduction of censorship has been impractical for a very long time, as understood by the Constitutional Act of today, and the intention of the majority has always been to design the Constitutional Law so as not to open up preliminary censorship in areas where censorship arrangements do not exist today. The provision is thus a constitutional codification of current practice and a tightening of the areas mentioned below. The majority assume that option 1 shall be understood as such a strict protection against prior checking and other advance censorship in all media, while the above-mentioned control systems currently in force may be continued to the extent specified in this article. Option 1 provides for prior checking to the extent necessary to ‘protect children and young people from the harmful effects of live images’. The majority understand the concept of ‘living Images’ in a broad sense, so that it includes not only film and video but also various forms of electronic games and ‘virtual reality’ technologies that need to be developed in the future. The majority assume that this derogation allows for the continuation of the current mandatory film censorship system for cinema films to be displayed for persons under 18 years of age. Furthermore, the majority believe that this derogation allows for the continuation of the current sampling system before recording videograms to be marketed in industry. The majority record that the Commission has assessed this differently, but will show that the real control of the age of those looking at videograms that are rented is worse than for cinema films, so that the consideration of children and young people suggests that a more stringent line can be taken on the basis of the Constitution for all videos to be rented out than for adult films in cinemas. The majority have noticed that the opinion of the Committee on Freedom of Speech is that the wording of option 1 would have to mean that the current system of broadcasting concessions cannot be maintained in an imaginary future situation where there is no longer a frequency shortage. The majority would point out that the reasoning of the Freedom of Speech Commission is valid only in a situation where absolutely all households can be reached with reasonable technology, and without any frequency shortage, i.e. in an imaginary situation that is likely to be very far ahead of time. The majority have also noted that both the Freedom of Speech Commission and the Government consider that general content requirements addressed to any provider of opinions in a market without an establishment control cannot be seen as ex ante control within the meaning of the Basic Law. For a long time in the future, including the digitisation of the ground network, there will be problems related to coverage, local radio shadows in the ground network, local shadows in relation to satellite broadcasting and significant costs for public or semi-public bodies related to broadcasting itself. The majority have therefore concluded that, in the foreseeable future, there will be a need for a system of concessions for radio and television broadcasting, both for local and national channels, and that concessions must be able to impose substantive requirements on the quality and width of the offer. The majority would stress that a purpose of today's concession system under the Broadcasting Act is to strengthen freedom of expression by providing the public with a wide range and quality of the offer. In the view of the majority, today’s concession arrangements are designed and practiced in such a way that they cannot be said to interfere with or damage the processes of freedom of expression. Furthermore, the majority would stress that this exemption does not allow for censorship or prior checking of the individual programme, but limits itself to content requirements regarding the width and quality of the broadcasts as a whole. With regard to the current arrangements for municipalities to impose requirements on the content of the offer as a condition for the presentation or marketing of films and videograms in industry, the majority assumes that this would conflict with the wording of option 1. If option 1 is adopted, it will only be possible to set requirements that are intended to ‘protect children and young people from the harmful effects of live images’. The majority have stressed that a restriction of the possibility of exemption in the basic legislation itself avoids an imaginary grey area where, based on a reading of the basic law, doubts could arise as to whether it would be possible to open up preliminary censorship in areas where it has not been intended. The majority would therefore recommend accepting option 1 as the fourth paragraph, first sentence. The majority thus notes that the censorship ban in today's constitution will continue in a broader form if the wording of option 1 is accepted. On this basis, the majority cannot see the need for a separate sentence specific to printed writing. In this context, the majority will refer to the desire to introduce a media neutral provision as far as is advisable. The majority point to the fact that, following current practice, temporary additions, seizures and withdrawals may in some cases be used to stop individual statements. Both the Freedom of Speech Commission and the Government indicate that there is a need to maintain this possibility. As the majority sees it, it is clear that the use of temporary supplements, etc. may damage the reasons for freedom of expression, but that publication may lead to irreversible damage to other interests, such as: in matters relating to the security of the State or to matters which could be seriously detrimental to individuals and that the fact that such damage should be avoided can therefore in some cases outweigh the gravity of the damage. The majority have noted that the Freedom of Speech Commission considers that temporary enhancements must also be possible with the strict provision on pre-sensorship provided by the Commission. With regard to the procedural procedural procedural procedural procedural requirements to be imposed on such provisional additions, the majority maintains its view from the submission that there is no need to introduce a specific procedural legal rule for temporary additions in the field of freedom of expression. The majority also refers to their comments in the setting. As regards the seizure and confiscation mechanisms, the majority would point out that these have decisive similarities with temporary additions. The majority thus subscribe to the Ministry's comments on these schemes and assume that these can be combined with the adoption of Option 1. The majority further points to the fact that, as a result of the amended recommendation, the recommended third sentence on protection against letter censorship would have to enter as the second sentence, and therefore the recommendation has been technically modified to achieve this. Furthermore, a formulation using the term ‘Brevcensur’ has been chosen rather than ‘Censur of Letters and other Correspondence’. This has been done to ensure that the proposal has the correct constitutional language and does not constitute a substantive change. The majority have also made a change to the recommended proposal for the general rule, i.e. the second and third paragraphs. We have done this because our intention with the basic law option 1 we chose in the setting was misunderstood by many, so we choose an option that hopefully better expresses what we've always meant. The main change is that we take back today's wording on 'Freedom of speech on the State Board', i.e. political opinions, and that we include a requirement that explicitly states that restrictions on freedom of expression must be justified by law. In general, the majority will also state that the proposal for the second and third paragraphs is intended to express the same intentions as those set out in the vote. The second sentence of the third paragraph is proposed to read as follows: ‘Only such clearly defined limits may be set for this Right, in which, in particular, serious consideration makes it liable to put an end to the grounds of freedom of expression.’ The purpose of this wording is twofold: firstly, the intention is to express clearly what is in our remarks, and which is in force today; there are certain restrictions on freedom of expression, including in the case of political opinions. The proposal here will ensure that this too is explicitly incorporated in the Constitution, so that the general citizen has the opportunity to see what is in force. The most important example here is perhaps racist statements. Although there has been some debate on this, there is full agreement that there should be some limitations here. The government and the committee have made it clear that there should be room for some restraints, as explained in the comments of the majority. This constitutional formula allows for the adoption of the amendments requested by the majority. When someone in the public debate has raised doubts as to what our proposal will mean for the freedom of expression of employees, I would therefore like to stress that the new proposal should in no way be seen as a weakening of this. Some might even perceive it as a strengthening of the freedom of expression of employees, because the wording on ‘Free speech’ is included. That's why the majority will make it clear, and here I'm sure I have a big deal with myself: the constitutional paragraph that we get adopted today will have to strengthen the freedom of expression of employees. Of course, it shall be permissible to report on adverse conditions at work and public sector employees shall retain their current freedom of expression in full. The practice we see, for example: in a number of municipalities, that no employee is allowed to speak in the media about almost anything that has to do with the activities of the municipality, is clearly contrary to the protection that the Constitution will now provide for employees. The wording of the second paragraph ‘on a different basis than a contract or other private legal basis’ could be interpreted separately in different ways. As today's wording is interpreted by an aggregate increase, it is clear that it merely discloses that there is a certain degree of freedom to impose professional secrecy on employees as is the case today, for example. on personal matters, matters relating to the security of the State or to business secrets. This wording in the second subparagraph shall not preclude the possibility for employees to say whether critical matters, whether in the private or public sector, and so-called ‘whistle blowing’, and the possibility of public employees to express themselves are not restricted either. In addition, the right of employees to express themselves politically is ensured by the section entitled ‘Freedom of speech’. With such a narrow understanding of the wording 'on a different basis than a contract or other private legal basis' to which the Stortinget refers, it would be quite right to state that the wording is, in fact, superfluous, because the exceptions in question are exceptions which, as it says, 'allow defenders to cease to defend the rationale of freedom of expression in the search for truth, democracy and the formation of the individual'. Therefore, at the end of the meeting, the chairmen of the political groups in the Committee will promote a draft constitution to remove the wording 'on a basis other than a contract or other private legal basis' only to remove any possibility of misunderstanding. Of course, the simplest thing would be if we had had this option available at voting today, but although there are many alternatives, the proposers behind Document No. 12:16 forgot exactly this opportunity. Furthermore, it seems clear that today there will not be a constitutional majority for a separate section of the Constitutional Paragraph on Commercial Opinions. In this context, the majority will refer to the majority comments in the paragraph. 4.8.1, where we point out that even in the case that the point of commercial statements should fall, it should be possible, by way of exception, in the general rule of the second paragraph, to maintain current rules on advertising. Among other things, it is stated that the current ban on sex discriminatory advertising and the prohibition of television advertising aimed at children should be maintained without breaching the Constitution. Thus, the practical political difference between whether or not commercial opinions are adopted becomes small. After I have so far presented opinions on behalf of the proposers behind proposal No. 3, I will now proceed with some more ordinary points of order. I would like to point out that what strikes me most in this matter is the extent to which everyone in this Chamber agrees on the basics, namely: We all place emphasis on freedom of expression as one of the most important rights in democracy. We agree that constitutional protection on freedom of expression should be considerably strengthened. We agree that we should have the most possible media neutral determination. We agree that the protection of political opinions is at the heart of freedom of expression and that political opinions therefore need special strong protection. We agree that freedom of expression for political opinions cannot be 100 p.m. either. absolute, there are certain other fundamental rights, such as the right to freedom from harassment and the right to privacy, which must be balanced against freedom of expression. We agree that the principle of disclosure should be enshrined in fundamental law. And we agree to legislate the state's obligation to facilitate a good public conversation. This is important to bear in mind when, in the course of the debate, we discuss differences of opinion between ourselves, which are important enough, but after all relatively small. The background to the Commission’s work was the recognition that the freedom of expression clause in Norway was, in many cases, not operational, because decisions against Norway in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg went further in ensuring freedom of expression than the Constitution and the Supreme Court did. The European system was not, in itself, a threat to freedom of expression, but it was inconclusive. And one might also say that a democratic country, with respect for itself, should ensure freedom of expression in its own constitution. Here, there is reason to thank the Committee on Freedom of Speech for its thorough preparatory work, which today makes it possible to adopt a decision on a historic constitutional change. The old paragraph has remained unchanged for almost 200 years, and that's exactly why it gives some historical suspense over this treatment. The general rule for the provision on freedom of expression, contained in the second and third paragraphs, provides guidance on what must be done in order to give up freedom of expression: any exception must be defended ‘obtained against the rationale of freedom of expression in the search for truth, democracy and the formation of the individual’. Similarly, political opinions have to be expressed, but here the restriction on intervention has to be even higher. The restrictions shall be laid down in law, which is both the result of constitutional customary law and which will now be reflected in the Constitutional Law. This means that the constitutional protection of freedom of expression has been given a utilitarian justification, in European, liberal tradition. Freedom of expression is something we have, and will ensure because it seems to achieve certain high-level objectives: It leads, over time, to greater knowledge, by the fact that unpopular views of the world and society are not kept down, that is to say, to the search for truth. Freedom of expression ensures the possibility of diversity in the public debate, which is a prerequisite for our political system to function well, as a democracy. And: freedom of expression ensures that the individual is given the opportunity to realize his freedom to believe what he or she wants on the basis of his or her conscience, without being coerced by authorities or from it at all times politically correct, i.e. ‘the free formation of opinion’. So such a justification is different from the basic American law's way of thinking, where freedom of expression is seen as a natural right, an inherent human right, which the Constitution recognizes and guarantees are not to be threatened. Of course, we haven't said that freedom of expression does not also result from natural law, but that will probably be different. But as the founding legislator, it's the utilitarian we choose, and we should be able to agree independently of the different philosophical and religious views we might have in addition. It follows from this that the core of freedom of expression is the right to political opinions. And it is not the political view of the majority or the political one that needs to be protected. The opinions and opinions of the majority are fine without any protection. It's the unpopular vision, the view of the minority, and the view of tone-provoking forces in society is taking a distance from, which requires special protection in relation to freedom of expression. At the same time, there is also a limit here: when opinions appear as and are perceived as hot and harassment by others, for example. in the case of racism, against religious groups and against homosexuals. We are to exercise some caution with which the limit is set, but the most severe and most reckless of such statements are not to be protected by constitutional law. The freedom of expression Commission points to the fact that there is a moving transition from attitude through opinion to action. The Commission then sets out the racist opinions which clearly encourage actions, which are particularly important for ethnic minorities to be protected against. The majority have not found the Commission's solution good enough here. The worst forms of verbal harassment and verbal violence can be as evil as physical violence. Particularly for children and young people with a minority background, a growing-up environment with a lot of racist expressions would appear to be very negative and would be very damaging to those who are exposed to it. The government has therefore signaled two small but important contractions, which are going in the opposite direction to what the Commission has proposed. Firstly, the debt requirement should be remedied, so that gross negligence provides the same basis for punishment as intended. Secondly, the definition of what should be regarded as public statements should be adjusted. Opinions falling in public places, on the streets, must be punishable even if few persons are present. These are statements that emerge in the public sphere. This does not mean that opinions in the private sphere are to be hit; in the home or equivalent you should be able to say what you want. The committee majority has joined this, and has also pointed to a third point where there may be a need for some tightening: the limit of what might be considered qualified invoking statements seems, as we see it, to have been set something high. The Committee majority also states that it is expected that the Government will promote proposals for the revision of Section 135a of the Penal Code along these lines. This case raises the question of the border between the public and private spheres on a more general basis. One side of the matter is that the right to privacy today is under the pressure of a media world that does not always know its limits. Another problem is the question of what kind of monitoring we have to accept and where the limit goes for privacy. A unanimous committee proposes to ask the Government to address these and related issues in greater detail. The fundamental law-making of the principle of disclosure and of the state's responsibility to facilitate an open and informed public conversation are also important reforms, but for the sake of time, I will refer here to the majority's remarks in the vote. The Section 100, which is hopefully adopted today, represents an important strengthening of the constitutional protection of freedom of expression in Norway. As an attachment to the suspension, there is a letter from the Minister of Justice to the Højres Storingsgruppe reviewing the whole of the new section 100 and comparing it with the current constitutional protection. The comments contained in the letter are still valid, even after we have selected a different and clearer constitutional text on some points. The protection of fundamental law is strengthened ‘in breadth’, by the fact that it will apply more justice than the classical freedom of expression, e.g. the principle of disclosure, and it will apply to all media. The protection of fundamental law is strengthened «in depth» by the fact that the new constitutional provision gives a stronger freedom of expression in areas already covered by current constitutional provisions, such as: in the area of the thresholds. Let me end by promoting the majority proposal, No. 3, distributed in the seats of the representatives, and II-V in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e520	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e523	When I hear the rapporteur's presentation of the proceedings in this case, it should be clear to everyone that the minority's proposals are best justified and based on what is most elaborate. The Workers' Party is the closest to the Commission's recommendations, and many of their recommendations are the best. Of course, from our point of view, it is positive that we have now moved in our direction, among other things. in view of censorship and the need for special protection of bold statements. But what is the background for the Right’s changing attitude to these important issues during the summer? Is it because you've realized that you've been wrong, because the counter-arguments have been good, or is it because you were initially too concerned about the relationship in the government? If the latter is the case, there is reason to recall that the Constitution should also apply on the assumption that government cooperation may have ceased.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e530	Already at the time of the suspension, before the summer, the majority who were then clear, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the SV, were clear that we looked forward to the summer debate and were open to follow it and assess whether there was a need for change. It is clear that when you promote a position in mid-June and the grand process will be 30 September, and the debate will start, I think it would have been a very small democratic approach to a very important principle case if you were just to close all the doors and be both blind and deaf and not listen to good counter-arguments. As I said in my case rapporteur's post, I do not feel that we in substance have changed our position, but we have chosen constitutional formulas that more clearly express the intentions that we have actually written in the setting. Furthermore, as the case-law rapporteur, I think it would be very sad if, after eight years of continuous work, we were to get a political stomach job where we did not get a majority for anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e537	The rapporteur was in his intervention in the second paragraph, where reference was made to the ‘Contract or other private legal basis’ as an example in an area where there could be restrictions on freedom of expression, inter alia. professional secrecy. The case-rapporteur said that, but I still want him to confirm plainly that if someone in some legal dispute in the future tries to claim that this part of the Constitutional Text means that the Stortingen has restricted freedom of expression, among other things. to civil servants, in relation to what was the case before the Constitutional Law was adopted, it would be totally wrong. It is not the intention, as far as I have understood, of the proposer that there should be some restriction in any way in the rights of employees, both in private and public companies, to be able to express their opinion, in relation to the legal situation of the day. I would like that confirmation from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e542	I am very pleased that the representative Hagen asked that question, so that I can answer it affirmatively. That's the correct perception of Hagen. As I said in my post, we will, just to show it even more clearly and to get rid of any misunderstanding, follow up on this by promoting at the end of today's meeting a proposal, which we agree on, which means that exactly that piece is to be taken out on the first occasion. So it's very well taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e547	I would like to thank the rapporteur for clarifications and clarifications in a number of areas that will be important to us when we arrive at voting later today. When the majority incorporated the provision in the third paragraph, that only such clearly defined limits can be set for this right, in which, in particular, serious consideration makes it justified to oppose the grounds of freedom of expression, I have to ask the rapporteur: does this mean that what is referred to as 'heavy consideration', with reference to what is said in the proposal, 'Legal responsibility should be prescribed by law', will be defined and enshrined in the law, so that we do not shift the decision as to where the limit goes from this room to the courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e554	Yes, I can also answer that affirmatively. I believe it appeared with great clarity from my post that there is a correct perception of how we believe this is to be understood. I can't believe there's room for doubt in relation to that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e559	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e563	When the Storting is in a process of amending the Constitutional Law in one or more areas, it is, or should it be, a process that is on the side of or, if you wish, above the daily political work. Any changes made in the constitution should be based on clear principles and have a very long horizon. The Labour Party for its part has long wanted and tried to get a commission for a complete review of the Constitution throughout its breadth, but since there has not been a majority for such an approach, we are at least pleased that the proposal to amend the Constitution § 100 has received a thorough and robust review of the Freedom of Speech Commission. Our constitution was created for a completely different time – one can almost say in another world. Political parties were an unknown concept. The mariners had no basis for thinking that our way of living could threaten the natural environment. It was a society where the classification was systematic. The international community was very solved, and the view of the individual and the individual's rights was completely different from today. But despite this, the men at Eidsvoll created in a few weeks a constitution there, among other things. This paragraph, §100, has stood until today, 190 years later. What underlies the Workers' Party's view of freedom of expression is the following: Freedom of expression is not something a country's parliament can give its people, freedom of expression is something the people have. Parliament's role is to guarantee this right, this freedom, constitutionally. It includes the right to express opinions, the right to silence, the right to demonstrate, the right to transparency and the right to have an infrastructure in society allowing opinions to flow freely. But even such a fundamental right as the right to free speech in a society will have to have its limitations. In our view, these restrictions should be defined as clearly as possible in law, so that it is the legislators and not the courts that set the limits of freedom of expression. Furthermore, it is our opinion that opinions representing attitudes that society is alienating from are to be met in the public debate. Now, the situation here in the Chamber is that there is no one who will restrict or dampen the right to speak, while others are the champions of freedom of expression. Our history and our culture, our ethics, and, of course, our morals, make attitudes towards issues like this a kind of joint ownership. There's something more or less you get in the birth gift. These are attitudes that are clearly rooted in our society. But now, as many times before, it is not the debate and the struggle for the objectives that characterise this hall, but it is the debate on the means and methods. How are we gonna do that? How are we going to make such legislation work optimally? An amendment to the Basic Law has its very strict procedure and, finally, amendments can be adopted in this Chamber by a two-thirds majority. But it's always so that it's desirable to get as large a majority as possible behind these changes. I must pay tribute to the majority and to the rapporteur on the matter for the work that has taken place since the suspension was given, and until today, where some movement has taken place, so that the possibility of having a significant majority behind such a change decision here in the Chamber is now present in a completely different way from what was the situation when we split up before the summer. That is why I would like to say that if the minority proposal were to fall – which I do not see quite possible – the Labour Party group would be recommended to vote in favour of the proposals now presented by the rapporteur, i.e. proposal No. 3, with one exception. I'll come back to that. In the first term, we're with the majority, and there's no disagreement. That's where it says «Freedom of expression should find Location». Right now SV says that «Freedom of expression is to be found», but I have understood it so that in legal context there is no difference in reality in this. In the second subparagraph, there are also no major differences in the current proposal. It is agreed that this provision shall not, at any point, weaken the legal status of today as regards the right of employees to free speech. I refer here to the rapporteur's statement, which clearly underlines this relationship. That's how we agree. The formulations here could have been better, and it might be a bit difficult to send out a signal. That's kind of funny. Why in the world do we decide that? But those who know the systems, the procedures and the procedure for amending the Constitution will understand that we had no choice, but that a proposal was made to correct this. This can be done already in the autumn of 2005, if the Stortinget so wishes. Furthermore, our proposal contains provisions on ‘considerable good faith’, which we believe should be included in the legal basis. But here the majority have not seen any opportunity to meet us. We see that it would not change the legal situation, as far as we can understand, in particular, because in Norway we have a concept or legal status – or whatever it is now called – where one has been in good faith, as well as is a legal state, so that, as far as we can understand it now, it will apply whether it is in the Constitution or not. The first sentence of the third paragraph, «Freedom Opinions on the Swedish National Board of Directors and any other Item are Any Allowable» – it is a great language, it is brilliant. So the ‘Statsstyrelsen’ is an object. The ‘object’ is the Minister of Justice present here today. Here we have now agreed. The bold statement about the state board has been resumed. I think that was one of the most important things that could have happened in the changes that the majority has made. It's brilliant. But we believe for our part that one could have stopped there, with «Freedom Opinions on the State Board and whatever other object are Anyone allowed». We believe that there could have been a point set. The majority have not now done so, and it has been said that 'only such clearly defined limits can be set for this right, in which, in particular, serious consideration makes it appropriate to stop the grounds of freedom of expression'. ‘Very serious reasons’ are not precise, and we have had the impression that it is necessary to leave these limits to the courts. However, the majority have now incorporated the provision that the various clarifications should be incorporated into the law. We have therefore also been confirmed by the rapporteur that there is a common understanding that these matters should be defined in law. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party said in an interview at the summer where he was asked where the limit of freedom of expression should go, that one should be careful to set limits. Now I don't think you can understand this statement from the Christian People's Party so that you don't want to set limits, but you want to leave it to someone else. We think that's wrong. We therefore believe that it is a legislative assembly that must set the limits for freedom of expression. I don't get time to go into all the terms here, but just refer to where we're a little bit disagreed, and where I won't recommend the Workers' Party's group to vote in favour of the proposal. This concerns the fifth paragraph of the proposal, which deals with commercial opinions. So here, the minority doesn't need to include such a provision in the Constitution. Nor do we see it as natural to give special guidance on tightening up these types of statements in the Constitution. Professor Francis Sejersted, who led the Committee on Freedom of Speech, has, for his part, referred to this paragraph as a ‘foreign element’ of this legislation. I also think that this has been the point with which the majority has labored the most, because that's where they've shifted their position most times from in ours until now. We believe, for our part, that it would not be appropriate or necessary to have this in, and we also see clear practical, perhaps legal and formal, problems in defining what are commercial statements, when we are going to take the provision for this next time into the law. What is a commercial statement, and what isn't it? I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote against the fifth paragraph of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The rest of the proposal we will join when our own proposal has fallen. When, during the day, the Labour Party is going to vote subsidiaryly for six of the seven paragraphs contained in this proposal, this does not mean that we support the reasons or arguments that the Government or Government parties are leading to come up with these proposals. So when we're later going to throw into general law to regulate a wide range of regulations as a consequence of what we're doing here today, it's not that these leaders will serve as the basis for our assessment of how these laws are to be designed. I believe that the minority's proposals, which fully support the opinions and recommendations of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, would have been right to adopt. I think that's where we as a society really are today on this issue. But when we don't get to it and the majority wants to have some other approaches here, we see that the changes that have occurred during the summer, the movements that have taken place on the part of the majority, and the moves that are now taking place on the part of the minority, make us arrive at a law that I think has brought us quite strongly closer and perhaps to the same level as what can be called the European standard for the right of human beings to free speech. It is not beneficial for a country and a society like Norway to be corrected by Europe because we are too tight in relation to how its citizens can be persecuted for their opinions. I would also like to express my gratitude to the work carried out by the Committee on Freedom of Speech and which I believe contributed to a significant rise in the debate on the importance and conditions of freedom of expression in a modern and complex society. One thing is that we have come up with concrete laws and wording here. It has also had an impact on the debate, not only in this House, but on the debate we have seen in the media, etc., where freedom of expression is on the agenda. I think it's very beneficial to take such steps from time to time. Finally, I will be allowed to address the minority's proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e612	The representative Kjell Engebertsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e617	I noticed that the representative, Mr. Engretsen, distanced himself from the Government and the reasons for the government parties in the setting, but not the reasons for the SV. There is a pleasantly extended hand in these days. I have one specific question for Engretsen, and it's about the point of commercial statements. In its comments in the vote, the Workers' Party refers to the review by the Constitutional Commission at this point, saying that it does not want such an exception as we initially want here, says nothing about the strength of the Constitutional Protection Act, and that, if necessary or desired, without its own constitutional provision, restrictions could also be imposed on the commercial opinions. My question to Engebretsen is: Is it so that today's law according to his opinion is in line with the basic law of the Workers' Party, in particular today's law in relation to sex-discriminatory advertising, or does the Workers' Party go for it here, that you want to change this law?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e624	If it is desirable to change the law that regulates sex discriminatory advertising etc., I cannot answer. Now I'm pretty sure that at least it shouldn't be weakened. Our opinion is that the provisions on commercial statements are not included in the Constitution in the way proposed by the majority do not play a role in how we can regulate this in the rest of the law. The fact that we mean it is now one thing, but stronger is that the replicator himself believes it, that the majority means it, and that the Government believes it. If I'm allowed to quote what you mean, it says in the setting: ‘In the view of the majority, it is clear from any alternative to § 100 The Grand Duchy that the commercial opinions have a weaker protection and that, in any case, there should be no constitutional doubt as to the existing prohibitions and interventions. For example, it is clear that the prohibition of sex discriminatory advertising should be able to be continued both with and without an explicit derogation for the protection of fundamental law for commercial opinions.’;» You also say the same thing about advertising aimed at children, and we fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e634	First of all, I want to say that the process that has gone into such a large collection is actually the Storting at its best. It nourishes the committee and the fractions for which great honors exist, in cooperation with the ministry. Coming up with racist statements is largely legal in Norway, and so it should continue to be. Only the harshest statements are to be punished. The point of punishing racist statements is not that some editors in some newspapers seem to believe, that I, as the good lawmaker, should ban what I don't like. No, the point is that racist statements are harmful and painful for those who are affected, especially for children and young people with a minority background. The representative, Mr Enbretsen, said in the newspaper on 21 June: "It surprises me that Lilletun is going so hard on us. There's nothing in what we're proposing in the law that prevents us from tightening into 135 a later." It sounds very good. I shall not go out hard at all if the representative of the Engretsen today wants to go ahead and be willing to tighten up and get rid of the swine.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e648	We will return to Section 135a on a later occasion. I think we can agree on what it's going to look like. Lilletun has a fresh and good closing rope here, ‘get rid of the swine’. Yes, if you get it away by banning it, I think we're going to meet a long way. Then I don't think we have any problems with making the laws that are necessary. But we think that an approach to making such statements less harmful is that you meet them in the open room. We're going back to how we're going to formulate the laws. What is our leaping point is that freedom of expression is free. So any society will have to set certain limits, and we'll come back in the next round to have discussions about where these boundaries should go. I don't think we're so far apart, but methodically, I think we're thinking a little bit different.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e657	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e660	It's kind of a strange political situation for me now. I have to fully acknowledge that with regard to the completely principled approach, I feel that I am more associated with the Kjell Engebretsen about the last thing he now expressed from the pulpit than what is expressed on the part of the government parties. When we think about the story of the Right and the Left, it's kind of remarkable. The current § 100 has stood since the Constitution was created in 1814, and it is a great day when we now change it. It's a little sad that it happens so late, but better late than never. Because it is true that Paragraph 100 is not really the applicable provision to which our Supreme Court and the courts now relate. I expect it will be after the Stortinget adopts a new section 100 today. It could also be referred to in legal proceedings in Norway. Because, in our assessments, we must assume that the Human Rights Act of 21 May 1999 incorporated the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMK, in this case also Article 10 of the EMK on freedom of expression, as applicable Norwegian law, in preference to other legislation. ‘The importance of the EMC for the development of justice in Norway will then be twofold: Article 10 and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in this provision will be binding on the Norwegian authorities — including the courts — to practice the provisions of Norway. [[EMDs]] In this way, the EMK is integrated into Norwegian law. On the other hand, the EMK and EMD in Strasbourg will monitor Norway’s compliance with freedom of expression. Article 10 of the ECHR, and not least the many principles developed by EMD through its practice, will be used in the appeals brought before the Court of Justice. The EMD, subject to certain limitations, will be subject to intensive enforcement by the Norwegian authorities. The EMC Article 10 defines the content of freedom of expression: freedom of expression includes «the freedom to have opinions and to receive and communicate information and ideas without intervention by the public authority and irrespective of frontiers». [[2]] However, interventions in the freedom of expression referred to in Article 10 may take place on the basis of different societal considerations that the provision is based on, provided that the intervention ‘is prescribed by law and is necessary in a democratic society’. The critical condition will be precisely which interventions are considered ‘necessary in a democratic society’. The key point is that the definition of the limits of freedom of expression will be situation-specific and relative, depending, inter alia, on the area of society in which it is located, the parties involved, the situation of expressions derived from, the nature and gravity of the opinion, the degree of care, whether there is a dissemination or an independent expression of the opinion, etc.’.» I have now read from a very good chronicle of lawyer Pál W. Lorentzen, and I fully agree with the views he has expressed here. I'd like to bring another little point from Pál W. Lorentzen's chronicle. He writes: ‘My view is that the Government’s proposal with no difficulty establishes a constitutional protection equivalent to the minimum standard of the EMK. While the position of the Freedom of Speech Commission in NOU 1999:27 is supported by an admirable willingness to seek the development of a constitutional provision on its own legs, anchored in Norwegian law enforcement and legal tradition, the main concern of the Government seems to be to cut off the proposals of the Freedom of Speech Commission at any point where it could be considered to establish a state of law that could be better than that of the EMKs.» I will be allowed to agree with Kjell Engebretsen, and I also say that the majority, and thereby the government parties, have changed their view of several things during the summer. It is an amended proposal that will be put to the vote today instead of the majority's vote. I should like to pay tribute to the fact that we have listened to the debate that has taken place this summer and that we have adjusted our proposal. As I now consider it, the proposal we are invited to adopt, which we expect to be adopted, will mean that we are something better than Section 10 of the Convention on Human Rights and that we are now in the forefront of standing on freedom of expression in Norway. When we in the Progress Party were to consider whether we should alert ourselves to voting subsidiaryly for the majority's amended proposal, we have stressed what important actors in the Norwegian community have said. We had our own seminar in our group, where the Minister of Justice explained the position of the government parties, and where the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, Professor Francis Sejersted, explained his point of view. For us it became very important that, thanks to the changes the majority has made in their proposal, the chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, Professor Sejersted, had also changed his advice, among others. to us in the opposition. He now found it so that it made sense if we subsidiaryly agreed to the amended proposal, and he also said that as far as he knew the system, it was possible to vote against one of the terms that he didn't like in particular, namely the fifth paragraph. Of course, we also noticed that Secretary General Nils Øy of the Editorial Association publicly stated that the media hoped that the opposition, the minority, would vote subsidiaryly for the amended proposal. That is what we in our group have chosen to place crucial emphasis on, and we will therefore vote subsidiaryly for the amended proposal, proposal No. 3, but we're voting against the fifth term. So I would also like to mention that what has caused us some problems has now been cleared up, both through clear statements from the Minister of Justice in our seminar, which I suppose he will repeat in his statement here in the Chamber, so that it comes into the form of a referendum as the processor of the Constitutional Law, and by the fact that the rapporteur has made it clear that it cannot be claimed in any court that this proposal, this decision, is going to be a negative change in the freedom of expression of public employees. We think it is time that we in Norway also get – and I hope that the Government and others will work on it – some kind of 'whistle blower' legislation that, under certain circumstances, protects especially public employees who warn in the public space about negative and unacceptable conditions in public establishments and in public jobs. We would like to strengthen the rights and obligations of public servants to say from. Government employees have a special obligation, because they are paid by taxpayers, and their top employer is Norwegian people as taxpayers and voters. If taxpayers and voters are not to have knowledge of the real situation, it will not be possible to make as good informed choices as we want. So we want to strengthen and limit the right of public employers to have professional secrecy for public employees. Of course, we accept limitations on some internal relationships and personal relationships, but we should not be anxious to warn about serious issues at public workplaces. I mentioned that it will be exciting to see what effect will be in the courts after this constitutional provision that we are making today. I've had both joy and other feelings by being present in a number of issues where freedom of expression is the central theme, and going into new issues like this that are facing the judiciary, among other things. together with a colleague in this room who has filed an action against me. It will be nice to see how he votes today, for it will in case his case weaken and strengthen mine if the freedom of expression progresses positively. I hope at least that in a few of these cases it will be possible for lawyers to deal more with the Constitution § 100 and not just talk about the EMK and EMD. In this way, I look forward to voting here today, and to how matters that are pending before the court will be handled. It would be useful if some matters were to be deducted from the legal system after we now strengthen freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e687	Like previous speakers, I would like to congratulate you on the thorough work done by the Committee on Freedom of Speech and which has provided the basis for a very valuable debate. I hope that this debate will not be held by the end of the debate in the Grand Duchy on this constitutional process. There can be no doubt that the Constitutional Court will today strengthen freedom of expression in Norway, as others have. The preliminary work on which the suspension is based today raises many fundamental questions that require weighing-up. I would therefore like to pay great tribute to the government fraction and the case-rapporteur for the constructive cooperation we have had, including in the balancing work between important reasons and fundamental human rights that have been necessary in this work. I'll give Right an extra praise for the constructive approach, because it wasn't obvious that the Right would do that. That's why this extra rose. The debate this summer showed that certain clarifications were needed to get a constitutional majority and to make the Constitution clearer, and we are very pleased that it now appears to be successful. Freedom of expression is an important pillar of a democratic and liberal society. Many horrors can be cleared up, and many critical conditions can be corrected as the debate takes place more in public space. That is why we are so concerned that the freedom of expression of employees should be strengthened. It is important that the community extends far in order for freedom of expression to take place. The right to express itself does not become real until opinions from which many distance themselves from get their place in the social debate. Something else would be the abuse of the majority's power and a rule of law stranger. But freedom of expression, as I see it in this debate, cannot be absolute. I would like to mention some approaches that we in SV think are important in this work. Firstly, we believe that the Basic Law must give the reader the correct understanding as far as possible with the Basic Law language theme. That is why I am pleased with the draft Constitutional Amendment that came today. That is why we have included in proposal No. 2 that it should say, “Freedom of speech shall be found.” We also believe that if there are to be limits to freedom of expression, it must be stated in the text – not what constraints, because it must be done in general legislative work. That is what the majority has inserted in the second and third subparagraphs of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Secondly, it has been important for us to work on the understanding that freedom of expression is not absolute in a liberal and democratic society. It's the human rights that are absolute. For us, the basic liberal idea is that each individual has certain inviolable human rights. There are rights to freedom to something, such as to express oneself and freedom from something, for example: discrimination, protection against grossly hateful and racist statements or sexual abuses. I am pleased that the gender equality director supports the majority's view of this area in yesterday's Evening Post. She justifies the support in particular on the basis of the protection which women need from abuse, whether it be violence in close relationships, pornography or sex discriminatory advertising. The limits of the individual's freedom go where one's freedom becomes the freedom of the other. It brings me to the third important approach, the perspective of power. Human beings and forces with power and resources and who generally do not experience particular discrimination have greater opportunity and freeness of expression in the public space or reciprocating opinions they do not like than do people without power. The freedom of expression Commission takes this into account when discussing the increasing media concentration. The minority in the Commission takes this into account when they oppose political advertising on TV. Like the minority, SV opposes TV political advertising and believes that the democratic debate can be corrupted when the most resource-intensive people can buy TV time. We oppose political advertising on TV, as we have always done, but we understand that we have lost, and therefore substantially support the Government's approach that restrictions are needed on the amount of and resource use on TV advertising. The power perspective is also at the root of what we want to do when we want to cancel the blast-femi paragraph. It is, in our understanding, a protection for the power of religious leaders and not a protection for the individual's religious feelings and opinions. From this perspective, a liberal approach will be that individual freedom and rights must be safeguarded by society, paying particular attention to the rights of vulnerable groups. That is why we are committed to a borderup between a stronger freedom to express ourselves and a protection against discrimination – simply because individuals, such as those involved. from ethnic origin or sexual orientation on an ongoing basis, serious discrimination or hateful expressions are finally marginalised and indirectly deprived of the possibility of participation as members of society. That is why we agree that the paragraph of racism must be tightened up. Therefore, the infrastructure requirement that is now being laid down as a foundation becomes so important. We have e.g. have been committed to strengthening the rights of the minority population to both artistic and cultural expressions. Based, inter alia, on: An opinion perspective we are working for an art and cultural policy that takes care of this. Resources and power are systematically distorted between women and men in Norway. As a feminist party, it has also been important for us to get this out in the setting. It will be wrong when the gender perspective and gender inequality are not included when the freedom of expression is debated. It is with this hindrance that I record that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party will liberalise the law on pornography and provide constitutional protection for commercial opinions, at least some constitutional protection. The protection of pornography or of commercial forces can, in our view, be difficultly justified by democracy, truth-seeking or the individual's free formation of opinion. The porn industry provides the basis for today's slavery, namely the trafficking of women and children, and the increasing pornography of girls and boys in public spaces makes today's ban on sex discriminatory advertising very important. I take the Freedom of Speech Commission seriously when it says that the constitutional protection of commercial opinions could threaten the ban on sex-discriminatory advertising or today's rules on advertising aimed at children. I am pleased that the representative Kjell Engebretsen has modified the views of the Workers' Party, that he refers to the comments of the majority and subscribes to it. But the view of porno legislation remains a clean-up. It is amazing, because the Workers' Party spokesman said the following in the debate in June 2000, when the Committee's position was debated: ‘The working party is satisfied that a majority does not wish to change the definition of pornography. This prevents the porn industry from constantly pushing borders and getting new markets, which we believe has an unfortunate impact both on society in general and on individuals, for example. children and young people. Rather, the problem is that public space is already marked by a commercial exploitation of sexuality.» So I agree with the Workers' Party spokesman at the time. ‘All the more often teachers, nurses, child-care workers and doctors were gambled. Some of them so effectively that they are threatened with redundancies if they talk about critical matters.» This is written by a political editor in the Evening Post, Harald Stanghelle. The Civil Ombudsman has also repeatedly shown that the freedom of expression of employees is being thwarted. There might be a lot of reasons for that. We in SV see that AS-certification, competitive outsourcing, attention to the bottom line of each institution and a streamlined media strategy threaten the right to criticism and free exchange of views that are the basis for a living democracy. I am therefore very pleased that a unanimous committee will strengthen the freedom of expression of employees. That's good, but we want more. We say, look at Sweden! The Stockholm City Code states: Of course, it is a right for our employees to get in touch with and speak to the media. Freedom of expression and freedom of communication belong to the foundations of Swedish democracy. Therefore, no investigation of employee contact with the media should be carried out. Sweden also has rules that provide effective protection for employees who openly say about critical or criminal matters at their own workplace, the so-called ‘communication protection’. We will work to get the same type of legislation here in Norway and will later take the initiative. We hope, then, that we will receive support from the majority and not just from the Progress Party, from which we have received support in the remarks to this very thing. I'm addressing proposal No. 2 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e749	The representative of Ågot Valle has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e755	I have seen from the media that the representative Valle claims that we in the Workers' Party want to weaken the penal code § 135a. Paragraph 135a is today designed to frame different groups to be protected against degrading or reticent opinions. Of course, the problem with such an estimation is that there is a danger that some important groups will not be included, for example: disabled persons are not mentioned in § 135a. As is well known, disabled people are among the groups that are exposed to the most reverent and discriminatory opinions in society today. Therefore, the Committee recommends a general wording that regulates violations of respect aimed at innate biological and socio-cultural characteristics. My question to the representative Valle is: Why does Valle think that this would weaken the penal code § 135a?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e762	When reference is made to biology and innate properties, a protection e.g. protection in relation to religious opinions and protection against discrimination on the basis of sexual practice. One doesn't provide enough protection. When the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, refers to disabled people, it is precisely one of the reasons why we have now tabled a draft constitution for the protection of minorities, which takes into account the need to protect people with disabilities from discrimination. I sincerely hope that the Workers' Party and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen will join in on that very point when that Constitutional proposal comes up in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e767	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e770	It's a historical suspense of the matter we have to deal with today. The founding fathers of Eidsvoll knew what they were doing when they decided which civil rights were to be mentioned in Section 100, freedom of the press and the right to bold statements. Freedom of expression was already seen in 1814 as entirely decisive for democracy and as something one had to give a central place in the Constitution. In 1787 one of the American founding fathers, Thomas Jefferson, who was probably an inspiration for the work of creating a Norwegian constitution, expressed it this way: If it was up to me to decide whether we should have a government, but no newspapers, or newspapers, but no government, then I wouldn't hesitate to choose the last! This is, of course, at the forefront, but it is clear: democracy without freedom of expression and free debate, that is not possible. When we adopt a constitution, we need to guard against just looking at the current debate. We make decisions to keep them standing for many, many years. The foundation should provide a frame and not be detailed. On the one hand, it is important that the Constitution is made tight enough, so that the majority of the population at later times cannot easily weaken the rights of individuals or of different minorities. Therefore, Constitution should preferably be very precise. But we must not go into the second ditch either. If we create Grundlova so tight that she fits the situation we have today, she can create problems in the future that we have not intended to create. We have to think ahead as best we can, and we don't have to include in Constitutional detail decisions that don't strictly take need to be there. So we are talking about a balance, a balance, I am referring to proposal No. 3, which has been put into the hall, takes care of it in a good way. I have noticed in the debate and am glad that everyone here in the Chamber is a few on most of the new decision, among other things. a very strong protection for political opinions the right of adding to the public principle that it is a responsibility for the state to facilitate a free and open public conversation the right to privacy and a private sphere; This with the right to privacy and a private sphere, we in the Christian People's Party are very busy. It means that everyone should be able to say exactly what they want, home in their own living room, without fear of surveillance or public intervention, and that everyone has the right to a private room where the press will respect privacy. More debate and clarification are needed here. It is therefore very positive that today it will be agreed that a separate declaration on privacy will be made. Until now, I've focused on the theme we're mostly a few about. But there's also some area where we're not some, and where there's a difference between the proposal from the Commission and the Christian People's Party. It naturally has enough that there is some point in which we think there is something missing in the Commission's proposal. We experience it so that the Commission has gone a little bit far in raising freedom of expression to a more central right than other human rights. There has to be a closer comparison, because it's also a human right not to be hounded and harassed, nor through verbal expressions. The Commission would remove ‘religion’ as a basis for criminal action under the criminal law of § 135a. Hets versus e.g. Jews, on the basis of religion, would thus be legally the same degree of severity. That means we would be a mistake. The Commission advocated the most reserved and prudent use of § 135a, the so-called paragraph of racism. We mean the paragraph can tighten up a little bit. There have been cases in the last few years that underline this, and I want to come back to. The Commission expressed doubts as to whether the prohibition of sex discriminatory advertising could be passed on, in danger that this prohibition might have been removed by the Supreme Court. Instead, we will make it clear that the ban on discriminatory advertising should be passed on. The Commission raised doubts as to whether the ban on television advertising aimed at children should be passed on. The core of freedom of expression is, as I was in the introduction, the protection of political opinions, and it is the politically incorrect and unpopular expressions to be protected. The plural's opinions and statements are doing fine without any protection. At the same time, there is also a limit here: when opinions get the character of hotness and harassment, for example. in the case of racism, freedom of expression cannot always be a defence. One example of grossly crooked pronouncing was we witnessed in the so-called Kjus-saka. White Valallianse wanted all adopted children from other countries to be sterilized. The majority in the Supreme Court found that this was over the line. As I understand it, the court gave particular emphasis to speaking to a group of children. A right decision, at my discretion. Although there was a ‘only’ opinion that did not encourage action, the opinions were so harsh and offensive that they themselves had to be illegal. The Freedom of Speech Commission questioned whether this was a right decision, and it seems that the Commission had been divided at this point. The majority have not found the Commission's solution enough here. The truth is, the worst forms of verbal harassment and verbal choice can be as bad as physical selection, especially for children and young people with a minority background. We shall be careful to set an exact limit, but the most serious and most negligent of such statements shall not have constitutional protection. A piece of road is this case law today. With the paragraph that seems to be signed today, it will also be stated by the Constitution itself that such a limit is going on. The regulations and the wording of the Constitution will also allow for three small but important restrictions to be made by the Government Party and the SV to indicate that a person wants to do so. First of all, we want the paragraph also to happen with statements made in a group of a few people. If e.g. two persons grossly harassing a third, this should be hurled at by the paragraph of racism, as long as the statements are made in a public place, as in the street. Secondly, we want grossly reckless statements to be punishable in the same way as willful statements. Roughly inactive statements may be at least as offensive as those of today's paragraph. It may be difficult to decide whether an opinion has been proposed intentionally or as a rash of gross thoughtlessness, but as long as the effect and the opinion are the same, the opinion should be punishable in any case. Thirdly, the majority states that the use of the paragraph of racism, § 135a of the Penal Code, has not been consistent with what the Stortinget has meant. Therefore, the threshold for which statements are to be framed by the paragraph of racism should be tightened somewhat. In the matter against Terje Sjølie, this chosen one was judged by the Supreme Court: ‘Every day, our people are plundered and destroyed by the Jews who suck our country empty of wealth and replace it with immoral and unorthodox thoughts.’ The Supreme Court said that this is a legal speech. What I think is crazy, and the Storting has now given a signal that the Supreme Court should change course. The next step is for the Government to propose a revision of the Racism paragraph in line with these points. I didn't get the time for everything, so I get to come back in a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e844	There is a long process concerning the position of freedom of expression which is at least initially rounded by constitutional changes that will be adopted here today. It is positive that we have come so far that a constitutional change related to freedom of expression is actually being dealt with. Nevertheless, it is my claim that whatever, almost, the constitutional text one would have chosen by those who are on the table here today, it would still be the constraints chosen in the ordinary law, which would really have determined the limits of freedom of expression. But based on the fact that freedom of expression will always be a way of assessing and dealing with the ordinary law and what constraints you impose, I find it very positive, however, that you have made it clear that you have a compromise proposal that gets as broad a majority as today's draft constitution. Then we have to take many of the discussions on the way forward in relation to the individual areas where freedom of expression is contrary to other interests. The centre party is not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee, but we support the majority's assessments of maintaining today's legislation on blasphemy and pornography. We are open to a strengthening of protection against racist and hateful expressions, and we want to strengthen the constitutional protection against being held responsible for violations of honour. We also support the majority's views on serious violence, prior scrutiny of opinions, restrictions on the security of the state and the strengthening of the freedom of expression of employees. On the other hand, we do not support the views of the government parties in lifting today's ban on advertising of political messages. The Party considers that freedom of expression is one of several fundamental rights which must be balanced with one another. It can actually be that some of them also conflict with each other. The right to protection against hateful and racist statements is, in my view, an example of that. Within the scope of freedom of expression, weak groups must also be allowed. An example of this is the need for the possibility of exaggeration in relation to children and young people and the desire not to liberalise porn legislation. In my opinion, the debate during the summer may have been unnecessary polarized. The debate shows that what contributes to disunity is perhaps more of the notions that are created than the actual inequalities that lie there, among other things. the notion that the Freedom of Speech Commission would not impose restrictions on freedom of expression, while the Government does. It's a show that's wrong. The truth is, both of them seasily evaluate it. The Court of Justice and the Government both rely on the assessments referred to, both the consideration of the weak and also the freedom of expression as a fundamental right in relation to other rights. The reason for freedom of expression – the quest for truth and democracy, free expression – is crucial for any society. But as in all free societies, freedoms must be balanced against each other. If not freedom quickly becomes the most powerful right. I find it difficult to see part of what is being discussed here today. When Kjell Engretsen, on behalf of the minority, says that the majority has not opted for a waiver of freedom of expression to be included in the law, I cannot understand that he has coverage to say so on the basis of the comments in the vote. On the other hand, the extent to which a person should or should not be subject to a restriction under the Constitution, and I understand that debate in connection with the Committee's position, is a matter of course a matter for consideration. I also think that the debate shows that the case rapporteur and the majority are willing to reach out, and that the distance between the understanding of the law in the case of the minority and the majority is not as great as it might seem in the public debate, and I think that is good. I think that's positive, because that means that the changes that are now being made to the Constitution can actually both gain broad support and give a strength to future interpretation of the provisions. It also means that the distance between minorities and the majority is obviously not as large as the parties wanted to express in the public debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e863	The left welcomes the strengthening of freedom of expression in the Constitution of Norway through today’s decision. There goes a line from when Lars Sponheim about ten years ago took up the freedom of speech on a principle basis in this room and most others wondered what the problem was, to the spring of this year when the Left State Council Odd Einar Dørum presented the big message on the theme, the other in his time as Minister of Justice. Along this line we also find a new disclosure law, a new law on privacy, the law on the publication of lot accounts, proposals on lobby registers, etc. – a fundamental and sustained commitment to liberal principles by the Left. The Social Democratic Newspaper could then also write in the leadership position in ours that this was «Social-liberal Odd Einar Dørum at his best». It's a little strange then to witness a public debate where the Left was accused of failing their liberal ideas. Much of the dispute is, in my opinion, due to the fact that someone has chosen to have a broad constitutional clause in order to make restrictions through other legislation. The government, for its part, chose to have a constitutional provision that allowed for some limitations. The difference between these two positions is exaggerated in the debate. Some have chosen to read the bill without looking at the preparatory work and emphasising the intention of the Government. Nevertheless, the debate has been important, and it has also led to some changes in a direction that has not been opposed by the Left, nor by the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice, as will be seen in the Council of State interventions today. Despite what has been said by some in the debate, both the government's original proposal and today's decision would provide greater protection for freedom of expression. Traditionally, the State has been regarded as the greatest threat to freedom of expression, and the existing constitutional provision only protects against the State, the public, restricting freedom of expression. But private individuals can also put a restraint on this freedom, for example. employers restricting the freedom of expression of employees according to the desire for loyalty. A new provision provides protection against such interference, and the Left follows it up in all contexts. In particular, it is important to consider critically the loyalties of some municipalities in the light of the freedom of expression of employees. The left is pleased that the principle of public disclosure is now also enshrined in the Constitution, and that we have thus gained an impact on the realities of this proposal as well. The infrastructure requirement in the context of freedom of expression implies an extension of what is permitted to clarify the obligation on the State to facilitate freedom of expression in practice. The market is not sufficient to ensure diversity and justice, and active policy action needs to be helped. That is why we have press support, so we have concession arrangements, VAT exemptions and other arrangements that recognise a difference in substance between the printed word and any other product. All parties – including the Commission – recognise that freedom of expression has a limit, where it abuses others in an improper way. This is a classic liberal dilemma between, for example: freedom of expression and privacy – two key liberal values. This dilemma is not solved by going to one extreme, but by finding the optimal balance point. The paragraph of racism in the penal code illustrates this, and as a liberal party, the Left can safely advocate such a balance and reinforced protection against racist expressions. Tolerance must be broad, but not boundless. The left is pleased with the debate and process that has taken place and has led to the Government's proposal being given a constitutional majority. There is reason to thank all those who have contributed positively to it, the Committee on Freedom of Speech, the participants in the public debate and the representatives of the Committee. I also allow myself to express some pride on behalf of the Left, and we can still promise vigilance and commitment on our part with regard to other laws and not least with regard to how the liberal values in practice are maintained in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e889	Let me first express the honour of the chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, Professor Francis Sejersted, and the commission he led, because their groundbreaking investigation has been crucial in order to adopt a new constitutional provision as a replacement for a provision that I think everyone agreed was anticipating. In the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee from June, a majority, but not a constitutional majority, gathered for something that was close to the Government's original recommendation to amend the Basic Law § 100. At the same time, it was suggested that a joint committee wanted to strengthen the constitutional protection of freedom of expression, even if there was disagreement at individual points. In such a situation it was wise, in my opinion, that it took some time before the matter was dealt with in Stortinget. In the meantime, the debate in public space has been extensive, it has been committed, and it has reflected differing views in the view of freedom of expression. The public debate has created a dynamic in the matter. The matter has matured in several ways, and I hope now, and I also note that there is a clear majority in the Grand Duchy who can now gather on a new constitutional provision on strengthening freedom of expression. The public debate has revealed that a good part of the disagreement between the majority and minorities in the Committee is more related to legal issues concerning the design of a new constitutional provision than to its content. The Government placed greater emphasis on the solutions adopted than the Freedom of Speech Commission, if possible, as reflected in the Constitution itself. This is done by setting out the conditions under which exceptions may be made to the basic legislation itself. The Commission's proposal for freedom of expression implies a more absolute constitutional text, which has made it increasingly necessary to have restrictive interpretations in the preparatory work for the provision – partly the same limitations as those of the Government signalled in the very text of the Constitution. In particular, the objections to the Government's legislative technique have raised three points: that the Government did not include a separate paragraph on the «Freedom Opinions on the State Administrative Board» that the constitutional text on the political opinions and exceptions to them was thus not formulated strictly enough that the provision on ex ante control appeared to provide for far-reaching derogations These legal objections have been cleared up by the way with the rapporteur’s statement today. The proposal he has recommended can be said to involve an intermediate solution. With regard to the substance of the case, government parties have adjusted their views on the protection of fundamental law on some points, primarily regarding access to the maintenance or reintroduction of cinematic watches for adults. Let me in this context be allowed to express recognition to the political parties that have thus also changed their views, in order to contribute to finding a solution here. The adoption of a new constitutional provision will lead to clarifications and improvements in constitutional protection in important areas such as the principle of disclosure, the freedom of expression of employees and violations of respect. In this respect, I would like to point out that the number of committees has clearly joined the department's assessments and comments in the communication where there is no other indication. This will help to give the preparatory work of the Constitutional Law to the desired impact where a sufficient majority is behind these preparatory work. It is important because it has proved impossible in practice to solve some difficult border issues through the very text of the Constitution. The present proposal is now as clear as the current constitutional provision that the political opinions – or the bold opinions on the state administration – should enjoy a special protection against both public and private interference. Such special protection has always been the intention of the Government, even though the legislative design of the proposal recommended by the Government in St.meld. No 26 for 2003-2004, deviated from the Commission’s proposal. At the same time, the text of the Constitution itself, following the proposal recommended by the rapporteur, continues to signal that in some cases difficult balances need to be made and that it itself does not solve all the issues relating to the limits of political freedom of expression. The racially discriminatory statements are one example of this. Both freedom of expression and the right to protection against racial discrimination are protected by the human rights conventions. There can be no absolute protection for both rights. The opinion is that the constitutional provision should not prevent the intervention of racist opinions, as far as such an obligation arises from conventions on which Norway is currently bound. The Government’s main message is also an expression that, in practice, the legal protection of freedom of expression does not only result from the constitutional provision. The Communication discusses the protection of freedom of expression at several levels. A stronger protection of freedom of expression can result from ordinary law, and in some cases directly from international conventions — which may also be made Norwegian law. The government's work on lifting today's ban on advertising of life and political messages on television is an example of a general protection in this field being established by legislation. The work on a new disclosure law also implies an intention to give greater access to administrative documents than is required by the constitution. However, it is of fundamental importance that the principle of disclosure – both public documents and public meetings – is now enshrined in fundamental law. Moreover, the basic law will be more than a symbolic mark. The Basic Law provides limits for intervention in the central content of current public law. So I would say something special about the freedom of expression of employees. Recent concerns have been expressed in the debate that a new constitutional provision could weaken the protection of the freedom of expression of employees. To that I would say the following: The size adds today to a very strong protection for the freedom of expression of employees. I understand the Freedom of Speech Commission so that it draws up guidelines and gives signals that will play a role in both clarifying and strengthening the freedom of expression of employees – also so that this ties to future accumulations. The government has built on the work of the Commission and tried to contribute to further clarification. I also believe that the Committee has given its full support to the fact that freedom of expression should be as strong in this area as both the Commission and the Government have proposed. This is not altered by the fact that the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party in the Committee position want further protection beyond the agreement of the Committee. I have, of course, also noticed on this point the proposal that will be made to correct an affected part of the Constitutional Law, and I believe that one in this way further emphasises what is stated both in my statement here and in the past is clearly presented by the case-rapporteur. In particular, in the light of the protection of the freedom of expression of employees, the wording of the second subparagraph of the Constitution has raised questions concerning the fact that no one can be held legally liable ‘on a basis other than a contract or other private legal basis’. First, I would like to stress that for the political opinions, the specific protection after the third paragraph applies. In the case of opinions other than political opinions, the second paragraph is crucial for what follows from the Constitution. Here, the wording shall be understood in the same way as the Commission's proposal at this point, namely that the second subparagraph provides protection against interference or «responsibility based on what may be referred to as the «highness of the State»». This has been clarified by the government of Stoltenberg already in the first big business message on the amendment of the Basic Law § 100. I also stress that the second paragraph is not an authorization to intervene in the freedom of expression of employees. Such a permit must follow e.g.: a specific contract of employment, or the home may be governed by the applicable rules on the right of management of the employer. Both parts will be governed by legislation and practices that will be affected for the future by the enhanced protection provided by the Storing today. But as I said, I found it necessary to make such thorough comments because this has been a debate topic, but I feel that the rapporteur's statements and also the rapporteur's information in the Enlarged Chamber about the announced change to the Constitution on a decisive point make this so clear that there should be no misunderstanding. I also feel that the representative Hagen's question to the rapporteur was a reasonable question, an important question, and that he received a clarifying answer. Let me conclude by saying that discussing freedom of expression is basically a little unusual exercise because it's about discussing ideology and primal values. That it is possible to hold such a debate is in itself a good thing. It's in itself important. It must be one of the most important advantages of freedom of expression that there can be a debate in the public space that balances what people perceive, and what they want to put in it, as the core of it. So it does serve, in my opinion, the very basic idea of freedom of expression and all those who feel obliged to it – and it does matter to an overwhelming majority in this Chamber, to say the least – that the dynamics of a public debate are actually so clear that it is also listened to, that it also affects what you do. It's not just those who sit in a big committee, the different parties, it's a government council, of course. It was supposed to be missing! Even if you have intended to insist that it is clear, you must also listen to whether it is perceived or not. And when you want to make it clear that the purpose is also to be perceived in accordance with the intention and to contribute to it, I see it as a clear reward for dynamism in the debate on freedom of expression. If we can get such dynamism in important areas of society in Norway in the years that come, areas that are actually very principled, I have little concern for populist winners, whether they come from the left or the right side of the policy. Then we create a solid foundation, which is so real and so thorough that we tolerate living in the tensions and reflections that result from the basic idea of freedom of expression, and which, for my part, can be expressed in the following way: In the public debate, it will be visible – and purified – what is high, what is false, what is right, and what is wrong. It's the way we build and base, not only our democracy, but also the fundamental human rights that several representatives have shown in their speeches here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e944	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e947	After today, some of the legal work will be started as a result of the work that has led to the decisions taken here today. Some of what's going to come in here is the private sphere. The government has a thought, an idea, that, for example, racist statements made in the public space, which we have gradually become used to calling it – in a street, in a square, but between a few people – will be something that is affected by current law. What I have to ask the Council of State is, are you changing through this limit of the private sphere? Is there now a displacement here? The second question is, is there a danger that such a legal provision might become a sleeping provision, without any effect or significance, because it will be too difficult to practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e956	All the legislative provisions on racist expressions will be demanding to practice, because it is precisely the break between two principles of human rights, namely freedom of expression and not being exposed to racist expressions. When it comes to the question of whether we're going to erase the distinction between the public space and the private sphere, the answer is no. I have also been familiar with concrete legislation in Stortinget, such as: go to dwellings. I am a person who is incredibly principled in such questions, and I intend to continue to be so as long as I have something to do with this field. On the other hand, in the case of public space, it is clear, as the parties to which the government has submitted, and which have joined the committee, that public space is not left to be determined whether it is located here or there, or whether very few are present. You leave the public space there. You could say that the principles of what is public space, for example. was raised in the so-called Beheim Karlsen case. But that doesn't change what was the question from the representative of Engebretsen. The debt requirement is changed in such a way that gross negligence is present, but there is still a demanding balance for both legislator and court.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e963	Restrictions on freedom of expression may be justified on grounds of national security. «Safety of the kingdom» may be a fair concept. Past experience has shown that if the term is too long, monitoring of political opinions can be the consequence. SV will be a guard in this area. Therefore, it was important for us to get the following comment in the setting: ‘The privacy should therefore... be relatively protected from public access and from public intervention, such as monitoring, disproportionate investigation methods...’ Therefore, it was important for us to get a provision on protection against letter censorship. I have been contacted by people who were afraid that the Constitution will provide weakened constitutional protection against surveillance. I would like the views of the Council of State on that. And in particular, is it not that the basis for monitoring must be given in formal legislation? In other words, it's where we have to take the fight to protect against unwanted surveillance. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e976	Let me first answer in principle, and then see practical real politics. There is no doubt that the phenomenon of outpatient letter censorship is going to follow the same regime as other censorships. Here, the wording of the Basic Law adds to an absolute ban, but there may be some cleverly designed exceptions that are necessary to combat crime. The majority also make it clear that traditional letters, as well as e-mails, are covered by censorship. But if we're going to go into it, searching and seizing private mail is regulated by the Criminal Procedures Act. It's also the case that you have to, for example, access to searches/consecutions of private mail will be allowed to interrupt the transfer of conversation by reason of criminal proceedings law. Pure listening is not censorship, but it is left to Norwegian legislation. It will also continue to balance the European Convention on Human Rights. The general and fundamental answer is that, for all the criminal proceedings provided for in the law referred to above, it shall be subject to the law of the Grand Duchy and to judicial review of the legality and proportionality of the proceedings. In addition, Stortinget has its EOS selection, which Stortinget has just created to make sure that the secret services follow the rules of the game that result from what I have now said in general. I thank the President for giving me sufficient time to answer such a fundamental question.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e987	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e990	Several of us believe that the bold expression in Norway should get better conditions, not only in law, as we are discussing to a large extent today, but also in fact. However, it is uplifting that the Grand Duchy appears to gather, at least through sub-vote voting, on a constitutional paragraph which is closer to the human rights court's practice than the old provision of the Constitution. And let me add, it's not like the debate that's been out there in public, so far as only a distance has been reconstructed, and that the distance, which some speakers before me have been in, seems to be small. The debate in public space has been based on proposals and settings which, in my opinion, are quite different from what is on the table for the Storting today. In this way, I agree with the Minister of Justice's description of the benefits of having a free debate with good freedom of expression and with many good opinions, which actually helps politicians and political parties to meet with the ability to create the necessary majority in such an important and fundamental area. One thing is the law, one thing is what the Constitution says, something else is to the extent that the content of freedom of expression. In other words, the job is not done with what we do today in Stortinget. It must be made possible for the actual freedom of expression. We need more than ever a debate on the importance of being heard, the importance of being able to participate, and how to strengthen participation in democracy. Election participation in recent years suggests that we are dependent on more than a revision of constitutional provisions. Organisations in Norway need to think about new organisational patterns in order to engage more people, newspapers and the media need to renew and change in order to be able to set a more representative agenda, and political parties will not have to engage voters and members in a completely different way than today. We must prepare the basis for actual freedom of expression, not just the legal – freedom of expression not only for the few, but for the many. It is sad, in my view, that the debate on freedom of expression has so far been about fine light and the limits of restrictions. For the Labour Party, consideration has been given this time to ensuring the fundamental right of all people in Norway to express themselves. The exceptions must be clear and preferably set by the legislators. This does not mean that there should be no limits to opinions and also rules that refer to individual opinions not only to counter-arguments in the public space but also to responses in the courts. It is also the view of the Workers' Party that the provision which today seems to bring together a sufficient majority opens up limited rules both for the purposes of, for example, bans on alcohol and tobacco advertising, anti-sex advertising and advertising aimed at children through broadcasting, precisely based on the fact that these opinions do not have the same protection, are opposed to the search for truth, democracy or freedom of expression. Despite the fact that the constitutional provision will not have a specific rule for commercial opinions, there can be no doubt about the scope for restrictions in this area and that it is no longer at the core of the provision. A tabular provision on freedom of expression must guarantee the right of human beings to speak in a modern age. In addition, it must provide a way for restrictions to be made and on which are the areas on which we want the boundaries to be marked. In the case of the Workers' Party, it has been important to indicate that, as far as possible, the limit shall be set by law. Politicians, the representatives of the people, must set the limits necessary for the right of expression. Democracy shall define the limits of its main arrows. Furthermore, judicial review of opinions does not have very good experience. By referring to violations of honour, alleged racist statements or, for that matter, pornographic expressions to the courts, we choose an arena which, paradoxically, in most cases has provided little help to those affected by the statements, and which is to a large extent not very appropriate. It has also been deterrent in many cases. First of all, justice on opinions creates a major problem of a demonstrable nature, which several speakers before me have been faced with: who said what, why and where did they say that? The claim is often opposed to the claim. Many cases end in acquittals on an actual evidence basis and thus have the opposite signal effect. The alleged opinion is often perceived as acceptable, regardless of the basis of acquittal. Secondly, court proceedings are often a costly and resource-intensive affair. The poor do not get the protection that many might have wanted them to have. Nor can the Public Prosecutor's Office be said to have been a particular driver in cases for, among other things. to slow down illicit pornography or racist statements. Thirdly, and not least, the outcome of court proceedings often obscures, often derails and relieves the general debate of the responsibilities that everyone could have in order to clear up. It often becomes a failure to hunt for a scapegoat, instead of a larger general settlement, for example. on attitudes that prevail in a larger population. Instead of an effective public debate, we get a veiled, narrow-track and costly process in which few participate. In this light, it is to hope that the rule of respect can also be cleared. There is reason to ask whether compensation, punishment and not least the murder of violations of respect are particularly effective. In other words, there are good reasons to signal through this treatment in Stortinget that we want a greater degree of general participation in word changes that will reverse unacceptable statements. Such freedom of expression can be the best weapon for reversing the undesirable effects of freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1011	Like the Council of State, I agree that the decision we are going to take today is a victory for freedom of expression, not necessarily because of the content of the decision, but the way it has come about, by the fact that arguments have met arguments, and that we have listened to each other. But freedom of expression requires quite a lot. We can't ban everything we don't like. This debate has shown that a clear starting point for everyone in this Chamber is that, as far as possible, discriminatory attitudes are countered by giving them the opportunity to get to the surface and to go out to the public, and that is, of course, the very prerequisite for meeting them at all. As a relatively young Right-Representative – and even a little earlier, Young Right-Representative – I have been listed above the so-called paragraph of racism for a long time. In addition, I think it has been problematic that it has largely only served as a symbol paragraph without any particular legal status. Here I agree with the description of the representative of Storberget. For these reasons, like many others in the Right, I have for a long time been of the principleal opinion that it can and should be removed as well. But after careful reflection, like the Government and the President, I have come to the conclusion that there is another solution: that is to a greater extent to make it functional. And when I say to some extent, I'm doing it on the basis that we're still going to base a constitutional protection for racist statements, because that's what this is about: the extent to which you protect those who are hot. And that protection will continue to be stronger than, for example, the protection resulting from the freedom of expression provision of the European Commission on Human Rights, Article 10. This will still be the area where the protection under the Basic Law § 100 is most closely compared to the protection under the EMK. In other words, we will be quite far above the minimum level of protection resulting from Article 10 at this point. The question that has been raised by many people is how far you should go in terms of protecting those who are heating, or those who facilitate anonymous heating, for example. by the expression of anonymous text messages in a larger regional newspaper that sometimes encourages violence against specific groups. One argument that is often used is that we have to tolerate racist statements. In addition to stressing that racist statements are in fact still guaranteed a relatively strong constitutional protection, however, I think there is reason to put the question back on who are these we who have to tolerate such things. Just as it turns out from historical experience to be easy to raise the tab of all liberal principles high and clear when you're saturated in your stomach, for example, and have an economy or a surplus that allows it, it's also very easy to take a clearly fundamental position in all cases when, for example: even isn't one of these we're going to tolerate that. These we who are going to tolerate this are 12 or 14-year-olds, who in their most vulnerable phase of life are extremely vulnerable and remain because of any deviation from the majority due to, for example, skin color, religion or lay. In fact, within one of these groups, 25 pst. I couldn't stand that kind of stuff, and I took my own life. In the opinion of the Right, freedom of expression is a human right which must have almost complete protection. But in my opinion, there is no human right to make the most racist and threatening statements, especially not anonymously, as was the case in a matter which is now being dealt with by the Press Professional Committee on the basis of the practices of the Journal of Rome, where we put pressure on anonymous text messages that had a fairly rough content, to say it carefully. The starting point must be to facilitate as open a public debate as possible. Fortunately, this was also the case in the case concerning the Austrian magazine, where the undersigned was contacted by several organisations in connection with our processing of the freedom of expression message and the Constitution here today. This is also a matter in which I am excited about the extent to which the moral responsibility of a larger regional newspaper after the ‘Be careful’ poster is confirmed and concretely stated. Public debate among all of us who tolerate some cannot repair all the damage that has been done to children and young people with different types of minority background. This has previously taken Stortinget inwards by adopting the penal code § 135a as a supplement and a safety valve in the most serious cases. As the State Councils and others have been involved, Norway has, through ratification of, for example, The UN Convention on Racial Discrimination committed itself to having legal protection – and effective protection – against racism. Norway has received criticism that we have not had it, and the Arve Beheim Karlsen case is one of several examples that our law enforcement has not been effective enough, and it is also part of the backstop because the committee majority has taken the position we have taken. By adjusting the debt requirement somewhat and clarifying which situations may be covered, there is a signal about adjusting a legal situation in individual cases that may complement the public debate as an instrument. When the majority of the Supervisory Committee stresses that today's case-law is not in line with what the Greatness in its time had as its intention, it is, as I see it, a clear choice of values and a fulfilment of our obligations under international law. I would also like to say that, after the representative, Mr Engebretsen's reply to the representative, Mr Lilletun, I await and see where the Workers' Party is landing, and what position you take in the matter, when this is finally to be dealt with. In relation to what can be said to be the essence and the ultimate point of the concept of freedom of expression, porn is on the one hand and political advertising on the other. I think, of course, it's paradoxical that some seem to be more concerned with guaranteeing the individual a right of access to porn, while at the same time, political advertising is considered harmful to democracy, when it will become a reality. Right-wing wants to welcome political TV advertising because we have faith that people don't necessarily gradually lose their judgment if they first see a political advertisement in the newspaper for morning coffee, hear a political advertisement on the radio in the car on their way to work, see a political election poster outside the kiosk where they trade candy for the cinema scene, where they see a political advertisement before the film – and in the future they may see the same advertising when they come home and sit in front of the TV. The debate on political television advertising seems to me to have been a debate in the media on the extent to which colour television should be allowed. Media neutrality, I think, is an important key. But in addition, we already actually have political television advertising today, although the LO leader and some others probably would also say here that it is just some kind of information activity without a political strategy, for example. to remove the sitting of the government when so-called non-political advertisements are being sent in the best possible time. Another argument that has been used is that political advertising will involve slogans and vulgarise the political debate. If you had followed this thinking, you should have been a little ghostly critical of both the 1st May slogans, the election posters of all the parties with slogans, the slogan change of words, for example. part ‘Holmgang’ debates, etc. Even though you can sometimes wonder if the world has gone through the information time, to say that, or seems to have forgotten the less glorious parts of the story, the Right actually believes that most people are able to evaluate themselves quite relatively critically – yes perhaps better than many of us sitting here in the hall even, and the safest way to prevent them from doing so is to take responsibility for, and from, them. That is why we welcome political television advertising, and we are not concerned about so-called American states, as many Norwegian politicians have managed to create electoral contempt on their own, for example. not to be aware of management responsibility in relation to delivering a message of value creation rather than merely consumption and slogans about gold and green forests. In the end, I would like to make a small point as the freedom of speech message was presented, like quite a lot of support, but which has been overshadowed by the debate in the summer. Lawmaking the principles of the Editorial plaque provides editors with tools to be good and courageous channel guards, said Nils E. Øy, Secretary General of the Norwegian Editorial Association, in Morgenbladet in May 2004. That in a society like ours you want media owners who want profit from invested capital is quite natural. I think the law of the Editor's poster is a guarantee of diversity in the media by the fact that the individual editor does not function as a mere strawman for a little less conscious interest, for example. in meetings with groups of owners who have a slightly different view of the editor’s role than what we have had tradition of in today’s Norway. In the end, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the representative, Mr Engebretsen, for commending the fact that a freedom of speech commission was set up in due course. Of course, that rose is to be passed on to Højre's former representative Hallgrim Berg, who was one of those who took the initiative in this matter, a matter that is now being lost in the harbour of a case-rapporteur from the Right. On behalf of the Right, I also want to conclude by commending everyone here who has done what the Minister of Justice was in on: making good use of his freedom of speech. It turns out you get good results in the end when you just sit down and listen to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1046	Now that the Storting is dealing with freedom of expression, we are dealing with one of the most important conditions for our democracy. It is a human right to be able to form a meaning and pass it on in whatever form you wish, and that is a prerequisite for a democracy to function. The development of a society depends on the free exchange of views, and on the ability to hear the opinions and opinions of others, even though some of us can find these both contemptible and immaterial. But it is precisely these opinions that need protection, not the majority's view. Liberal statements are therefore part of the public debate. The sum of all opinions and opinions will help individuals to form their own opinions on different themes, and is therefore very important for the development of society. The purpose of this case is to strengthen the constitutional protection of freedom of expression. In my view, this is necessary, as the existing constitutional provision has several weaknesses. Over the years, there has been a lot of criticism of today's provision, and the criticism has primarily been that it provides insufficient protection of freedom of expression. It is also obvious that the tooth of time has become clear on the determination, which cannot be said to be in harmony with the media society we live in today. In particular, it is clear that today's provision only deals with printed matter and therefore does not provide the same protection for statements made in another way. The process of designing a new constitutional provision on freedom of expression has been long and, in my view, very thorough. There are a number of proposals to be taken into consideration by the Storting in order to best design the provision. Only in summer has there been a major public debate on the issue, and it is a pleasure that so many important contributors have taken part in the debate — and so far unisonically highlighted the importance of making changes to the provision, or then a new provision. The extensive debate that has taken place in recent months has produced results. It is expressed through the partly major changes that have occurred in the spring to where the matter stands today. The original setting, in my view, provides insufficient constitutional protection for freedom of expression. This is also supported by several participants in the public debate. The Government's proposals have been characterised as a defeat of freedom of expression. The Progress Party has therefore not been able to support the Government's proposals. In our view, the position of the Freedom of Speech Commission is significantly better than that in terms of protecting freedom of expression, and it also represents today's society in a much better way. Ideally, therefore, this should have been adopted in our view. Nevertheless, I think it is very positive that, through the process that has been going on this summer, a satisfactory proposal has been made which must be expected to achieve a sufficient majority here today in the Grand Duchy. So I want to use the opportunity, as many people have been involved, to give the case rapporteur credit for having lost this process well in port. If you had not reached an agreement, you would have found yourself in a situation where you had probably stood back with today's provision. It would, in my view, be very regrettable in view of all the work and processes that have been carried out to put this matter in place, particularly when, in close proximity, all the participants in the debate have stressed the importance of having a new provision. The proposal is very close to what has been the original position of the Progress Party. I'm absolutely sure it's a right step to contribute to that becoming a majority for this. We have to be careful that the best is not going to be the enemy of the good. One thing that I would like to mention in particular in conclusion, and which is perhaps the decisive factor for the Progress Party to support the amendment, is this sentence on «Free speech on the Swedish National Board of Directors». As I see it, it is a very important sentence in relation to freedom of expression, and it is also a sentence that has stood in the paragraph we have today. It represents a very important principle. The other thing that I'm also happy for has been clarified is this with the freedom of expression of employees. It was a case of doubt for me and for the Advancement Party, but when both the case rapporteur and the Council of State so clearly clarify the circumstances surrounding it, I feel confident that we are doing the right thing by adopting the additional proposal that has arrived here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1077	We can imagine a seven-year-old we know on his way home from school. When the child comes home, the child cries and tells us about what we usually call bullying, about someone who has been yelling at the bullying – I can choose ‘brick snake’, hoping that it is within the President’s limits of parliamentary language, but it can be anything – that is deeply offensive to this child, so offensive that this child no longer dares to follow the same path to school, if that is the way it should be. How many questions did they say they would hit you? How many people asked, how many were there? The starting point can't just be that if there were no more than that and so many, it must be okay, or if they didn't bring any direct threats of violence, that must be okay. In fact, there are places where you should have the right to feel safe from statements that violate the dignity of the individual. The representative Lilletun and the representative Engebretsen had an interesting change of words earlier today, where Lilletun said something about getting rid of the filth, and the Engebretsen said something about his belief in responding to statements in the public room. I'm somewhat inclined to agree with the Engretsen. I believe that responding to public spaces is as important and as effective as a strategy against, for example. racism. But this is also a question of human rights. The representative of Hagen referred to the European Convention on Human Rights. Norway has received concrete criticism from ECRI in respect of the right of individuals to protection against discrimination. So here's a real dilemma: two human rights stand up against each other. Our answer is that then we cannot just say that freedom of expression is absolute, because the state is to protect the human rights of each individual. Just as our answer to that child will never be: well, you get to go the same way alone, and we won't take a position on whether it's okay, no matter what they call you. In the same way that our answer to the child will be the opposite, namely: Of course, it should be as much your right to go there as it should be their right to come up with musculoskeletal words. Of course, no one has the right to call you anything! This does not mean that we believe that legislation is the foremost strategy to combat racism. I have to be so honest that I admit that in the case of the examples that have been cases of doubt in the courts, I believe, for my part, that the comments made in this Chamber and said at the ‘Holmgang’ of respected politicians have been far more dangerous than that of Terje Sjøli, for example. have said, without me thinking of banning those statements. So I don't think what we're saying here is primarily about what works, but it's about taking a stand for the human rights of the individual. It cannot be as simple as that in this room we who are resource-intensive should be able to say that a minority – whether it is the child who is one against ten, or for example. is one with a different skin colour, or e.g. one with a different sexual orientation – automatically should tolerate so deeply the opinions that do not hit us but that hit them. So I follow the example of Storberget that legislation is not enough, but that does not mean that we as legislators should not take seriously the human rights obligations we have. It's so simple and so difficult when we're faced with real dilemmas where it's so that the individual's rights can't apply implicitly, if the other's rights also apply. Then one's freedom must end where one's freedom becomes the freedom of the other. It may never be such that the right to own a knife automatically implies the right to drive it in the back of another person.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1099	In the poem «Sons of Norway», a great Northman, Henrik Wergeland, has expressed the meaning and value of freedom of expression in a historical context: «The Temple of Liberty in the Dale of the North Man, stands so gloriously in Ly of his mountains. He dares to think, and he dares to speak freely. He dares to work for the Good of Noriges." An organisation called the American Civil Liberties Union goes to an extreme when it comes to defending freedom of expression. They defend the right of neo-Nazis to march through a district where many holocausts live, by pointing out that ‘freedom of expression must be respected in the most extreme situations, otherwise it does not apply at all’. The Christian People's Party is opposed to an interpretation of freedom of expression that implies that consideration of the outcome of the opinion is immaterial. The protection of racist, Nazi or violent-spornographic statements by reference to neutrality is, in the view of the Christian People's Party, a lack of respect for persons belonging to that group of opinions. The freedom of expression Commission refers to the media system and education system as the two perhaps most important institutions or ‘walls’, if we wish, in public space. Communicating public opinion is considered a prerequisite for political democracy. Control of the news dissemination gives rise to a strong potential impact on public opinion. Therefore, the law enforcement of the Editorial plaque is important. Democracy requires that the impact of the media should not be concentrated in one or a few actors. However, in regulating ownership concentration in the media, the consideration of resource availability for individual editors must be balanced against the possible consequences of control over news dissemination. The aim is above all to ensure diversity as an important value in itself. The Christian People's Party supports the fundamental legislating of the infrastructure requirement, which implies an obligation on the part of the State to actively contribute to the establishment and operation of channels out into public space, so that individuals and groups are guaranteed an actual capacity for expression. The establishment of an open television channel in the digital ground network could be an example of how governments can facilitate an open and informed public space conversation. The public broadcasters must serve the democratic values of a society. They shall preserve and develop national culture and identity and shall ensure cultural diversity. In this context, the NRC and the other public channels play an important role in promoting cultural diversity, providing programmes that are generic, informing people objectively, guaranteeing diversity and providing quality programmes. As a licence-funded public broadcaster, Norwegian national broadcasting has greater economic freedom than other media and must therefore provide more and more areas of society than commercial media are required. The broadcasting media is being digitised. The size has agreed that a digital network for television should be developed. This presents new challenges, both in terms of dissemination, technical quality and content. In meeting this new digital age, questions have been raised as to whether it will still be appropriate to grant concessions for broadcasting. Anyway, this is going to be something in time. I don't think there's any doubt that in the foreseeable future there'll be a need to find regulations, not least to ensure a proper coverage of broadcasting across our vast country. In any case, the NRK will continue to be a central player in this work. The Christian People's Party emphasises that the NRK should be our main public broadcaster even after a digital ground network is a reality. Freedom of expression must primarily safeguard truth, democracy and the freedom of opinion of the individual. Commercial statements do little to contribute to the processes of freedom of expression. There must be no doubt as to the right to take action against advertising which violates gender equality, which is aimed at children, or which discriminates against ethnicity. Whether this is done through a separate paragraph or through the freedom of derogation in the general rule of the second subparagraph is not decisive. However, there can be no doubt as to the result: the prohibitions on sex discriminatory advertising, advertising aimed at children and advertising which discriminates against ethnicity are continued. The political philosopher Montesquieu defined freedom that the right to do all the law allows. However, freedom of expression is a duty of responsibility. The responsibility lies with each of us for which opinions we let in, and what opinions we release. The anchorage can be found in the individual's conscience. Nevertheless, it is important that the state regulates the opinions that violate individuals or groups. Uncensored violence and sex can cause irreparable harm to children and young people. Here, society must act as a filter to protect weak groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1134	Freedom of expression and printing is one of the most important rights of democratic states. Therefore, it is natural that such issues have also been the subject of Nordic issues. For example, during the sixth session of the Nordic Council in 1958, it was discussed a proposal that 'the Nordic Council had to recommend governments to examine the possibilities of pre-unification of the rules on freedom of the press and reading in the Nordic countries'. Opinions were obtained from a number of bodies and a considerable amount of work was done in the case. Unfortunately, the Member States did not agree on a common approach. However, the discussion was important because it put the freedom of expression on the agenda and helped to raise the awareness of members of the Council of the common positions of the Nordic countries on freedom of expression. A review of the laws in the Nordic countries now shows differences, and this should perhaps be a matter for harmonisation between our Nordic countries. Such a challenge goes to the Council of State. A change to the Basic Law § 100 will necessarily lead to the need for review of a number of laws. A theme that has been given considerable attention is the law of pornography, an area which, in my view, should have been a natural area for common Nordic setting standards and borders. I also give this challenge to the Council of State. Protection of privacy is another important area for the debate on freedom of expression. I am pleased that an overall committee supports the Government's recommendation to investigate whether there is a need for a separate provision on this in the Constitution. The freedom of expression Commission has, in my view, provided a very well-formed justification for such protection. It says that you can only develop as a human being by having a room where you don't have to be responsible for what you do or say, to external, unknown controllers. When you publish what should remain private, it's not just the right to privacy that breaks down. The public conversation is also corrupted. It no longer works on the assumption, but it is due to gossip. – This is well said, and this is well meant, I think. There should be something to think about for someone each and take inwards. I agree with the case rapporteur, Martin Engeset, when he said that it should be allowed to tell us about critical conditions at the workplace in public space. A new labour law will have to be able to capture this right, so that employees can get out in the public space. For one, the importance of being heard shall not be underestimated. Employees must be able to tell about health hazards, and they must also be able to tell about bad managers, whether they are public or private, without being persecuted afterwards. In my opinion, too many poor working environments, including managers, also make working days a test for many workers. I hope that we can also see that employees in newspapers, in the media, can express themselves on critical issues at their workplaces, and that it can be carried out in the public space, in their own newspaper, for example. But loyalty to employers, whether they're in public or private, and the fear of losing a job, is limiting the freedom of expression of the actual everyday life. There is a lot that we should take with us when we are going to make the most necessary general laws on the basis of what we are now going to fall into the Constitution. We need to create a new labour law based on the principles of freedom of expression. All the other general legislation that we are now going to make should therefore be based on the premises of freedom of expression, as we are now going to subdue them to the Constitution. There could be a lot of interesting debates based on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1151	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3606]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1164	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3607]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1177	Then we would be ready to go to voting in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1184	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kjell Engretsen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 2, by Mr Ågot Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposal No. 3, from Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are included in the adjustment, while proposal No. 3 is distributed in the hall. The President will propose the following arrangements for voting: First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2 by the Socialist Left Party, then by proposal No. 1 by the Labour Party and the Advance Party, then by proposal No. 3, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and finally on the vote's proposal for a decision. No one has any objections to this, and that's how it's going to be done. The President would also suggest that we use the wetting plant for the first two voting sessions, and assume that there are no objections to it. Let's go to voting. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:16 First paragraph: Option 2 is accepted.” [[(Freedom of expression):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1225	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:16 Second and third paragraphs: option 1 is accepted fourth paragraph: option 1 is accepted to the first sentence. [[(Freedom of expression):]] To the second sentence, option 1.Fifth paragraph: Option 1 is accepted to the second sentence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1246	We shall then vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:16 [[Freedom of expression]] Following the rejection of the Labour Party and the main proposals of the Advance Party, these parties have notified subsidiary support for proposal No. 3, with the exception of the fifth paragraph. The President will first vote on the fifth paragraph of proposal No. 3, and we're assuming that we can also use the wetting plant at this vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1281	The proposal has not received the agreement of 2/3 of the representatives present. It has therefore not obtained the necessary constitutional consent and has therefore been rejected. We're going to vote on the rest of proposal No. 3, and on the basis of notified subsidized aid, the President expects that there may be an approximate unanimous agreement to the proposal. Since, at this vote, we are going to adopt an amendment to the Constitution, the President will propose, based on what has been the tradition of the Storting, that we vote by roll call. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The plug starts with representative No. 13 from Akershu County. Those who vote in favour of the proposal answer yes. Those who vote against answer no. So this is proposal No. 3, except for the fifth paragraph, which is now addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1309	The final decision shall become the fifth paragraph of the sixth paragraph of the proposal and the seventh paragraph of the proposal shall become the sixth paragraph. After the Stortinget has now adopted a new section 100 of the Basic Law, the proposal for a decision under I will lapse. We shall then vote on the other Roman numerals in the motion for a resolution of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1347	The representative, Martin Engeset, is given the floor to put forward a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1350	As announced and explained during the debate on the recently adopted constitutional amendment, an amendment to the adopted paragraph should be promoted. On behalf of the representatives of Ågot Valle, Kjell Engebretsen, Carl I. Hagen, Modulf Auchan and myself, I promote this proposal for changes to the recently adopted section 100.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1355	The draft Constitution will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1362	We're going to vote on the matter on the supplementary agenda, which concerns St.prp. No 83. The proposal for a decision of the Proposition shall read as follows: The size agrees that the Ministry of Finance is authorised to redeploy appropriations and other budgetary powers, as well as to adjust the chapter and postal breakdown in the 2004 government budget for changes in the ministerial structure from 1 October 2004. The size is briefed on the reallocation of the 2004 government budget in terms of the rebalancing of the government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1374	We then go back to case number. 2 on agenda No 103.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1393	This matter has already been dealt with under point (d) of the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure. Further references were made:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-09-30.ana.ud1203e1695	No. 300, which was made at the end of the debate, will be announced by printing under the responsibility of the President in order to reach a decision on the first, second or third accumulation after the next elections. – Then we should be done dealing with the issues that are listed on today’s map. Now we're going to end the 148th grand total, the third in the current parliamentary term. During this year the size has had 103 meetings, while there have been 44 meetings in Odelstinget and 14 in Lagtinget. There have been 15 evening meetings in Stortinget and 13 in Odelstinget. Eight meetings have been held in addition to the scheduled time. 22 o'clock, and four of them have gone out of the way. 24, two in the Grandstand, and two in the Odelstinget. The meetings in Stortinget have been gathered in approx. 380 hours, in Odelstinget for approx. 60 hours and in the Creation for a little over 1 hour. The government has promoted 225 cases for Stortinget, divided into 83 deposit proposals, 94 outflow proposals and 48 outflow messages. The representatives of Storting have produced 95 Document No. Eight proposals. If we sum these and grossing-up propositions and ousting propositions from the Government, Document No. The 8-proposals are approx. 35 pst. of the proposals made by the Stortinget. The President has noticed that someone in the media has estimated how many annual works are agreeing to deal with these proposals. The President will strongly warn against providing business-economy assessments to analyse the parliamentary work of the national Parliament. That being said, the President would nevertheless recall that the Rules of Procedure of the Storting in Section 29 states that if a committee finds it doubtful that a Document No. Eight proposals do not deserve the approval of the Storting, it should be encouraged without further delay that the proposal is not accepted. The Committees’ contribution to what has been dealt with in the Stortinget and its departments is 278 entries for Stortinget and 107 entries for Odelstinget. In addition, of course, there are budgetary positions. The government has contributed to the debates in Stortinget with six presentations, including the census. Of 76 issues that have been exposed to the next accumulation, 25 are Document No. Eight proposals and twenty-four legal cases. Of issues dealt with by this accumulation, mention can be made: National Action Plan for Sustainable Development of Norwegian Nature Culture in School and Cultural Policy up to 2014 Digital Rocket for Television Tax Reform The Long-term Plan of the Defense Land Festival Act Modernisation of the State Loan Fund for Education Pioneer Divers Relationships Housing Policy Sales of SND Invest And we've been both above and below water with respectively shipping and the maritime industries of marine mammals; Furthermore, we have dealt with: National transport plan quality of national biotechnology care services We have amended the law on Bouvet Island, Peter Island, and Queen Maud's land, and thus we introduced a law that allows the King to give regulations on environmental protection, so the treatment was not inconceivable. And last, but not least, Stortinget has just adopted a new section 100 of the Constitution, on freedom of expression. The size has further resolved 46 interpellation debates, 369 questions have been answered in the ordinary Questionnaire, and 131 main questions have been asked in the oral Questionnaire, which has been held 23 times. The number of written questions increases for each year, and is now up to 974 – we did not raise 1000. A year ago it was 784 and two years ago 593. Among the decisions taken in the Grand Duchy, we find 181 so-called request decisions, and there is a reduction in relation to the previous year, when the number was 242, while there were 140 in the first increase in this period. The size has, through the examination of the report of the Frøiland Committee, had critical comments on the high number of request decisions. The President does not know whether this is the cause of the clear decline from last year to this year, but it is at least a development that the Storting itself has wanted. In the case of recommendations, i.e. proposals sent to the government without a vote of reality, it's 16 in the last year, and there's been a marked drop from 50 two years ago and 37 last year. As the representatives witnessed, a number of proposals were made to amend the Constitution at the start of the meeting, and one now at the end. So the total number of constitutional proposals made is 21, and that's the exact same thing as in the previous period. In that case, the President shall not add any more dry figures, but shall simply declare the negotiations in the 148th anniversary of the end. The representatives are then invited to sign the Protocols of the Storting and the Departments. The storage protocol is published in the laying room, while the Protocols for Stortinget and Odelstinget can be signed here.
