ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e38	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group for the representative Per Ove Width from 5 February onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Vidar Andersen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Vidar Andersen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e59	Vidar Andersen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e64	The President will propose the election of the President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Thursday and Friday. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e69	I suggest Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e74	Ranveig Frøiland is proposed as president. Other proposals are not available, and Ranveig Frøiland is thus unanimously elected President of Stortinget's meetings today and tomorrow. The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e79	I have, on behalf of Per Sandberg, Karin S. Woldseth, Siv Jensen and myself, the pleasure of making proposals to put in place a system of auxiliary lawyers paid by the public for insulting criminal cases involving forced marriage.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e84	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e98	As the Committee notes, and as the Riksrevision also points out, there are still significant female deficits in the appointment of officials in some departments. In particular, the Ministry of Defence has a good job to do, even though, as the comments from the Right and the Advance Party describe, improvement is in sight. The defense is one of the most man-dominated arenas we have in Norway. The women who pass through the current loop there are likely to rise faster in the military than the average of men. It doesn't say everything about women's career opportunities in defense. I believe that the new defence, which we have begun to call it, will benefit from getting more women leaders and hoping both the department and other departments that are somewhat inclined to appoint sufficient women in senior positions, the next time we deal with appointments, can show significantly improved results. There are many capable women, and very many of them are also very good leaders, I think. Otherwise, at the end of the day, as far as the gender equality agency has recently said, it looks very inconsolable when it comes to the distribution of female and male leaders overall in society, it is worth noting in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e109	The importance of gender distribution and gender mixing in most workplaces has been raised beyond doubt. On the one hand, I worked in a canteen in health care, where it wasn't exactly spicy by men, and on the other hand, I worked at a warehouse in a shower factory and in the defense, where it wasn't exactly spicy by women. The similarity was quite striking. Diversification creates pitfalls that do not necessarily contribute to healthy working conditions or to the quality of the work you could have had. It's called that the woman is the worst, and I've probably learned that it can vote sometimes. Some may disagree with that, but I'm not convinced that what someone has described as a neanderthal macho culture in some man-dominated jobs is to cheer for. Most of the departments have made a good start, although there are women's deficits, as pointed out by the rapporteur, for example. Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence as a whole. The Workers' Party has, in its observations, been harmed in order to put an equal sign between the Ministry of Defence and the Defence as such. There's something about it that we have a few female tops and therefore, of course, cannot get women in some of the military top positions that you want women to have. Before concluding whether or not there is a cause for criticism: there has been a positive development. The ministry has made an active effort to improve the recruitment of the training, so that in the long term, in the future, we can increase women's share in military top positions as well. It's a lot of joyous numbers, but it hasn't come far enough. I think maybe we also need to realize that there are probably some limitations on how many women are really interested in working in the Defence. There might be something to take inwards. I myself have been working on gender policy, gender policy, in the county municipality, and there we see that no matter how many plans, visions and thoughts we have had about a certain percentage of women in certain types of studies, almost no matter how active one has been, it still turns out that many people choose traditional. So you could say that it's just because you're following a gender role pattern, but it could also be that the different sexes actually have different interests. These figures show that since 2001, the Ministry of Defence has ensured a much more active policy that has ensured an increase in the proportion of women in our defence schools. For example, in the case of the war schools, combined for the Army, the Maritime War School and the Air War School, there has been a rather significant increase in the number of heads, of over 20 pst. In fact. So the total total of all the schools has been an increase of well over 50 pst. This applies in relation to the number of heads. I think that is evidence that there has been an active recruitment policy. I assume that this will also in the long term help us get capable women who can apply for the positions the Workers' Party is aiming for. In the Ministry of Defence, the department itself, we have a woman as the top boss – not only a woman, but also a capable woman. I think it's worth noting. It is probably also what forms part of the background that other women have become more motivated to be appointed to some of the positions mentioned by the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in their comments. But the Right also shares the Workers' Party's view that we still have significant challenges, but the picture is not as full black as it may seem from those comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e120	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1746]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e136	The overall objective of the size is to provide good access to public health services to the entire population, regardless of age, sex and place of residence. Increases in funding have been made to ensure this, with objectives of shorter waiting time and fewer waiting list patients and then, as a matter of principle, in the context of efficient use of resources. In view of this and a negative trend in cost-effectiveness, the Riksrevision has examined different ways of organising one particular type of treatment, namely hip operations, and whether they can explain that there are differences in effectiveness between hospitals as well. The approach of the Control and Constitutional Committee concerning the National Audit Office’s examination of effectiveness in hospitals — a comparison of the organisation of hip operations — may not be a kiosk, based on the title. However, this extraordinary title obscures the amount of information on how good organisational solutions can create increased treatment activity and effective treatment institutions. The fact that the National Audit Board’s assessment theme is precisely the insertion of hip replacements is not random. In addition to the fact that it constitutes a quite necessary and natural delineation of an insurmountable issue that would have been to assess the overall treatment provision of an entire hospital, and then within a reasonable time, it is a fact that hip operations constitute one of the largest shares of government expenditure related to intervention-driven financing. Better organisation will be of great importance here. For example, one day less sleep time for this patient group could release almost 7000 sleep days, which corresponds to the bedtime for about 7 000 sleep days. 650 hip replacement patients at this bed post. Based on calculations made at 28 different hospitals that performed 62 pst. of all the country's hip operations in 2000 and 2001, the Riksrevision points out that it was up to 35 pst. the difference in the liedown time for hip operations. Complex problems usually require complex explanations and solutions, and that number, of course, has to be read with it as a back carpet. However, with that reservation, as a broad majority of the committee sees it, there has been a not insignificant room for efficiency improvement by doing some of the organisational measures that the low-time efficient hospitals have done, as this survey shows. Positive experience has been gained both before and after hospitalisation and during the operations themselves in some of the hospitals examined, which should be reasonably motivating for others to learn from and not least practice. Clear service objectives may initially act as one of the simplest ones, but it requires awareness of what is the real purpose of the business, clear thoughts and strategies on how to make the time between the outpatient study and the actual time of insertion as short as possible. The Riksrevision mentions as a possible measure leaving post-controls of pre-treated patients to the primary physician and to investigate the patients successfully before they are admitted. Providing individual patient ownership in relation to their own operation, by clearly knowing when something is going to happen, can also ensure fewer cancellations of operations and may not be entirely unlikely to increase their motivation for subsequent effective rehabilitation. Using rehabilitation institutions as part of the treatment seems to be a rather important point when patients have gone through the procedure, according to the National Audit Office's report. Much of the responsibility for implementing the necessary grip is then at the head of the department. However, the majority of the Committee assumes that the Government is contributing to ensure that the positive experience of the Riksrevision has also taken note not only is put in the drawer but is actually followed up in the dialogue with and in the governance documents of the regional health undertakings. The responsibility of management, which lies in the fact that the head of the surgical units has practically steel control – to use a military term, since we talked about the military instead – over the efficiency of their operating rooms and not by reflection refers to low operating capacity, needs to be stressed. That a few of these seem to have an overview of it, is too bad. I would assume that it must also be more satisfactory to have prepared the operating rooms the day before, so that what is the main point, namely to operate patients, for example. from 1 p.m. 8, as the more effective hospitals in the study do. In conclusion, I limit myself to discussing the extent to which the ISF system creates distortions across what the Storting has done. The committee majority assumes that we do not have the empirical to conclude either in one direction or the other. A minority believe that the few passages contained in this report are enough to establish it. I guess that's drawing this administrative audit and finding in it well far, to say it carefully. But the Storting is sovereign and discusses what it will, whenever it wants, and I also expect that we will do so, but in fact I hope that there is no policy in the small that stands and is not about the ISF system in this report, and that the main debate on this is taken once and for all where it belongs.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e153	The National Audit Office is constantly making new paths and good reports, now in the field of effectiveness in hospitals, and especially in the field of hip operations. What is worth noting is that the most low-efficiency hospitals use rehabilitation institutions as an important and integral part of treatment, and there is much evidence that this combination provides the best results for patients. So it's always, whether hip operations or other types of operations, a need to look at the level of utilization in the operating rooms and that the organisation and planning of operations is as important as the operational capacity itself. It is important that the emphasis of the Government in its governance documents on regional health companies is followed up by concrete checkpoints in order to improve internal organisation. In addition, I refer to the comment in the position behind the Workers' Party and SV, where we ask the Government to carry out systematic studies to clarify the extent to which the intervention-driven funding system in the specialist healthcare service affects the priority of hospitals for patients. I hope the Minister of Health will note that, although this is not an expressed wish of the other parties in the Committee, this can be looked at in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e164	The National Audit Office’s study addresses the effectiveness of hospitals. It is obvious that effectiveness in hospitals is a very important issue, for the number of patients being treated depends on how good this effectiveness is. In other words, the queues of patients waiting for treatment will be reduced more quickly as the effectiveness of hospitals is improved. That is why, as I see it, it is very worrying that the report reveals that there are so many differences as have been achieved in the effectiveness of the different hospitals. As I think we can read this report, it is obvious that some hospitals have the potential to treat more patients, by focusing more on internal organisation and effectiveness. The first line responsibility for organising the individual hospital lies, of course, with the local management. It is therefore regrettable that the Riksrevision has revealed that several of the surgical department heads have a lack of overview of the level of use of the individual operating rooms. In the view of the Progress Party, it is therefore crucial that appropriate organisation and efficiency are given a stronger focus. As we also see it, the funding system is important. I understood that the representative André Dahl did not want to discuss this to such an extent, but the way we see it, input-based funding is a very important relationship to get efficiency up. It is obvious to us that the greater the level of input-based funding, the better the effectiveness of treatment. This can be explained simply by the fact that in this form of funding, the income of the hospital and thus the possibilities for patient treatment will depend on how many people actually treat. It appears obvious that this will promote effectiveness and thus reduce the queues of patients waiting for treatment. In our view, therefore, it is very regrettable that during the 2003 budgetary procedure, the majority of Stortingen reduced the input-based funding from 60 pst. to 40 pst. We are concerned about whether the Storting's intention to reduce treatment cows could be achieved with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e176	Several have not asked for the word – yes, there were several.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e179	In such an important case, there are several people who want the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e184	It fully accepts the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e187	This report shows that things can be done much better in Norwegian hospitals, not least better organised to improve efficiency. It's not always that efficiency is the same as productivity. Effectiveness is doing the right things at the right time. At least that's how I learned it. Things can be done much better, and therefore I believe that this report should have been a reading for the management of many hospitals, and that the good examples of how things can be done better can be shown up for learning. I would like to comment on some of what we have stressed in our remarks. Firstly, patients in the Health West and in Health Mid-Norway must wait longer for hip operations than in the other regions. This may be due to a lack of efficiency. But during all the years I was a state politician, I learned that hospitals in Hordaland are among the most effective in the country. It's not just something you've said in Hordaland, it's also underlined by Sintef. Then it may be that the longer waiting time has other causes. SV has pointed to two. Firstly, these two regions, Health West and Health Middle Norway, have the lowest basic appropriations. This also points to the National Register of Articulated Prostheses by the Hearing Body. This is natural for health authorities to intervene, so that resources can be distributed more evenly. That's exactly what a social committee has said before, and some of the same thing has been said by the Socialist Left, together with the Progress Party and the Central Party, in the budget position for this year. So my question to the Minister of Health is, is it reasonable to believe that there is a connection between long waiting and low basic allocation? Is it fair that it's like this? If the Minister of Health thinks that there may be a connection, when will he grasp exactly this? So it's absolutely right that a targeted use of rehabilitation sites can improve efficiency. It is important that rehabilitation facilities are located near the hospitals, near where the patient lives. Rehabilitation must be part of a coordinated chain of measures, i.e. in close geographical proximity to home hospitals, as the rehabilitation report some years ago also established. But it is also true that health west and health mid-Norway has fewer rehabilitation sites than other regions. The Rehabilitation Message, Responsibilities and Meistering settings pointed to one of the same things. But you have to ask yourself what's been done later. In this report that we are dealing with, it is said: ‘Questions can be asked whether hip replacement patients are offered an equivalent offer in relation to rehabilitation in patient treatment.’ We know that there are plans in these regions that we are talking about. When is the Council of State going to deal with this? Then we've said something about effort-driven financing, about how it changes priorities. The Progress Party also needs to see that it is that some patients become more profitable than others, and that it may be that it is profitable and not the needs that mean that the patient will get help or not. In other words, I would warn against a treatment being a product that should improve the bottom line of the individual hospitals. Until now, initial operations have had the same price as operations, which have taken longer and are more complicated. I know here's that change. But the report shows that those who have to wait for a new operation have to wait longer to get it than those who are going to operate for the first time. I found some interesting quotes in the report. An orthopedic says: «We get so little paid DRG for audits... yes, we have to be aware of it. We can't run up with too much audit surgery, because it kills our economy... so we're just saying no. Until we get paid for it." And another: ‘We need... the freshest patients in order to operate efficiently and economically, otherwise the hospital would be left with only the audits that are economically unprofitable.’ This, together with free hospital choice, may turn priorities into the freshest, simply because the hospital must prevent the more profitable hip patients from choosing surgery in other hospitals. About the ISF system, the Hagen committee says: ‘The risk of confusion is an empirical question that has not yet been answered unambiguously.’ We believe that this report provides such a good basis for confusion, at least for hip patients, that we, together with the Workers' Party, therefore ask that ‘systematic studies be carried out to clarify the extent to which the intervention-driven funding system in the specialist healthcare service affects the priority of hospitals for patients’. I challenge the Minister of Health to make some comments about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e225	The national audit surveys and reports are often interesting and can provide us with useful information and experience backgrounds. The examination of hip operations has been carried out before the entry into force of the Health Enterprise Scheme and, as such, it can well be said that it is not entirely relevant in relation to the structure and organisation of the day. But it shows us some interesting things, for example. the quality and – I can use the word – the effectiveness of healthcare is very dependent on the functioning and internal organisation of each institution. I do not like the word ‘efficiency’ used in such an isolated way, but it is clear that, in many cases, good and rapid health treatment is effective health care and, as seen, it may be evidence of its use. Administration and organisation are very important. That's what the Riks Auditor's report shows us. It also shows that in-house management of the individual hospital is an important responsibility, both at the top and at the bottom of the department. In this way, this report should be useful reading for all in hospital management and organisation, as a representative said earlier. I am also not quite convinced that we should assume that the most efficient hospital is the best hospital. Short bedtime may be too short and thus cause complications and unacceptable loads, primarily for the patient himself, in such a way that we create swing door spaces. It is not desirable from a human point of view, but it is also not desirable from an efficiency point of view in terms of health. Therefore, I am a little careful to swallow the claim that lying effective hospitals are the best hospitals. But it is clear that there should be some consistency here, and then rehabilitation is important, as the report also points out. It is important that the Government has a clear view that rehabilitation is a necessary and valuable end-treatment in a medical treatment chain. The money we spend on treatment and surgical intervention is again recovered by the patient being quickly rehabilitated and returning to a worthwhile life situation, either as a worker and a social worker in that way or as a person who can handle himself as best as possible, such as for example. the older generation is dependent on being able to live in its own home. Rehabilitation has not been a good enough priority for today's government. I believe that the economy of rehabilitation and training institutions needs to be reviewed and improved. It must also be that there is a better link between those who need rehabilitation and the rehabilitation device than we see today. But some hospitals are nice. They also have the best results. This shows that rehabilitation needs to be much more closely linked to effective and holistic health care. So to a couple of the moments that are drawn in here, among other things. the financing system. I want to do so, as I do, among other things. The representative from SV points out that the funding system is not immaterial to the health care we have. It shows, among other things: that hospitals, to some extent, appear to give priority to simple, operational treatment rather than to the more complex one. It goes on with the first operation or reoperation. That is quite clear from this report. I think there is reason to follow this closely. In this context, the Central Party will vote in favour of the Committee's majority proposal, which is certainly a minority proposal in this Chamber, where a request «The Government will undertake systematic studies to clarify the extent to which the intervention-driven funding system in the specialist healthcare service affects the priority of hospitals for patients». I think it's very important that we from this place and from Akersgata make as neutral and good a system as possible, so that everyone gets an equally good and proper treatment, no matter what kind of treatment it's about. Then there's another phenomenon that also comes in here. It is that there is no equal geographic availability for hip replacements and rehabilitation services for patients. This is particularly true for Health West and Health Middle Norway, where some patients experience significantly longer waiting time than in the other three health regions. As has been pointed out here from previous speakers, the Central Party, together with the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party, has previously tabled a proposal asking 'The Government to assess whether the allocation to the Health West is correct in relation to the other undertakings'. There may be grounds for looking at all health regions and whether there is proper funding. This was pointed out in the budget setting, and we also repeated it in connection with the treatment of funding of health businesses, based on the attitude of the Hagen Committee. I hope that the Council of State can give answers to some of the questions and views that have come up here today, among other things. in the case of the latter as a whole, in the case of the financing system, in the case of the importance of neutrality and correctness, and also in the case of rehabilitation and capacity and its organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e251	The National Audit Office has examined whether there is a potential to streamline the organisation of treatment activities in hospitals. The study is based on the organisation of one particular type of treatment: hip operations. The national audit considers that, in the light of the study, it is possible to demonstrate that there is a significant potential for improving the effectiveness of the health sector. I fully agree with that. The National Audit Office’s investigation and conclusions are based on pre-hospital data. Different access to healthcare, different priorities and different efficiency are found in Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000-2001, on this reform, highlighted as some of the reasons for reform. Since the hospital reform, there has been a significant focus on improved internal organisation, logistics, financial management and reporting. Productivity figures from the first year after the reform were introduced indicate that we are on the right track. The National Audit Office study will provide an important basis for the work now being undertaken by regional health businesses to further develop specialist health services and improve the quality of services. I take with me the proposal to read out to the managers of the companies. The 2004 Regional Health Companies’ governance paper has made major demands on efficiency and migration, while calling for a non-reduction of the extent of patient treatment. I expect this to be more effective. The ISF system may produce distortion effects. The ISF system is a funding system and not a prioritisation system. It's a way to distribute the money, not a way to prioritize patients. In the further follow-up and management of businesses, I would like to emphasise that priority should be given to patients based on the rules and guidelines drawn up by the Storing and the Ministry in the legal and regulatory frameworks, including: in the priority regulation based on the setting of the Wages Committee. The priorities shall not be guided by the deployment of resources towards so-called ‘rewardable’ patients. Trends towards this kind of thinking in culture will be met with counter-tensions on the part of the owner. The National Audit Board points out that developing the financing systems in line with changes in medical practice is a responsibility of ownership. Annual adjustments are made to the ISF system and the system is regularly updated to capture changes in the relative costs between different treatment modalities. This work is now being reinforced and expanded. The objective is to have a funding system that works as neutrally as possible in relation to medical priorities, while encouraging the best possible health for each krona. But it's not an exact science to design such a system. It will always have to be an improvement and development work. The National Audit Board notes that it is a clear management responsibility to establish internal management and follow-up systems that prevent some patient groups from being deprived for financial reasons. I want to stress management as a very important key in this context, and I think that the report points to that as well. Management is established as one of four strategic areas of activity in regional health enterprises. From this point of view, a common national management training course has been launched designed to meet the needs of the specialist health service. A joint management group of regional health enterprises has been set up and a joint development programme is under way for 170 managers in enterprises last year and this year. Efficiency will be an important focus area in the future. The reports and recordings made in relation to this from the Riksrevision and others will be included as background material. Targeted monitoring and follow-up of this work is also ensured by management. To the representative Berit Brørby, who pointed to the need to have checkpoints in relation to the follow-up to the targets set by the Stortinget, the Government and the Ministry, I would point out that we have introduced nine quality indicators, some of which are also going on with efficiency. This year, we will expand with additional quality indicators that hospitals will report on and that will provide owners and overall policy authorities with information on how to deal with some of these factors. So the representative asked Ågot Valle when and how the Council of State would address the issue of a change in the allocation of basic appropriations to hospitals. Size treated in autumn St.meld. No 5 for 2003–04, and there, the Storting gave its support to the main features of the proposal for the reallocation of the basic appropriations presented by the Government. This means that the health regions referred to by the representative Valle will gradually have a greater share of the resources. Regarding the relationship between the waiting time and the size of the basic allocation, I do not dare be categorical. I think that the differences that we see, and that are also documented in this report, have a set of cause and effect factors behind them. I don't want to speculate in which one of the most important ones here. As regards the question of follow-up to the rehabilitation message, I would like to point out that the Stortinget has given its support to a new funding system for the training institutions that links them to a coherent chain of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation through a link with regional health businesses. It's an important step towards getting a better whole in the service, which was a main message in the rehabilitation message. Finally, since there is a great deal of pressure on the debate on the hospital reform by day, let me conclude that two of the main objectives of the reform for the first time were to cut waiting times and not least to focus on unacceptable long waiting times. Yesterday we could read the statistics for 2003, which show that the waiting times have fallen dramatically, by 16 pst. i average. Together with the information from 2002 on improved productivity, which was the second key objective of the reform, namely more health for each krona, it shows that for two of the most important objectives, we are on the right track. It's a demanding job for health companies to do, but we've collected some of the first and most important results, and then there's a significant conversion work ahead of us. The report that Stortinget is dealing with today is a tool in this work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e288	Initially, I have to say that I think it is both pleasant and commendable that the Minister of Health can now document such good results from the hospital reform. This suggests that the Minister of Health has managed this reform in a good way, despite the fact that his party was initially opposed to the reform. It is a pleasure that we are now beginning to see very good results. In this report, the National Audit Office has examined whether there is a potential to streamline the organisation of treatment activities in hospitals. I think that this management audit report is a very good example of a useful and important report, because it is timely, has a lot of timeliness, and it addresses an area of great economic and principleal importance in society. How we manage all the billions that Stortinget grants for the operation of the country's hospital, and what we get out of these resources, is very important. That is why this is a very good management audit project for selecting themes. The findings of the National Audit Office are clear: there is no doubt that there is a significant potential for a more efficient use of Community resources. The National Audit Survey indicates that the potential for efficiency in hospitals is significant and that a significant part of this can be taken out by better organisation of operations. The Ministry of Health has agreed that there is a great potential for improving the effectiveness of hospitals, so according to the Minister of Health, the results are well under way. The Ministry notes that this will be followed up in the government steering document of the Department of Regional Health Enterprises for 2004 with measures that will contribute to further efficiency. It's very joyful. It is important that experience with good organisational solutions flows to a greater extent than at present into less efficient hospitals. Some of the positive aspects of the management audit reports are that the management can learn from the findings that you do, so that you get a total improvement. Firstly, it is important that the system always provides the units themselves with incentives for efficiency. Secondly, it is important that the Government emphasises the need for better internal organisation of regional health businesses. That's what the department will do, and I'm glad. The National Audit Office’s study also shows that input-driven funding may in practice have an impact on hospital priorities. However, I am fully convinced that the hospital reform and the implementation of the ISF system, i.e. effort-driven funding, have contributed to the significant reduction in the waiting lists that we are now seeing. The Ministry has rightly pointed out that the ISF system is a funding system and not a prioritisation system, and that the incentives provided by the ISF system must not distort the health policy priorities of the ISF. This was also clearly stated by the Minister of Health in his statement. However, it is important to stress that, at this stage, there is not enough empirical evidence to confirm or deny a hypothesis about the risk of this kind of distortion, but I think it is very important to be aware of the issue and to have the necessary preparedness for such effects. Finally, I should like to ask the representatives of the Right to vote against the proposal for a decision in I, which has a majority in the Committee, but which there is reason to expect there to be a majority against this in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e311	I think this is a good example of a management report or, as one calls it in our neighboring country, an efficiency report to show how a service works. There appears to be a tendency to improve the organisation of work in this area as well. Several state audits have carried out similar investigations. In More and Romesdal, the audit examined the effectiveness of the operational service by orthopaedic intervention. This was a few years ago, before the health reform, of course, but when the best department had 25 effective hours at the operating table per year. week and the craziest down to five hours per week. week, realize that this is actually a lot to pick up. This report that we have in front of us points to several aspects of hip surgery. It is probably true that both primary and rehabilitation services play an important role in the overall outcome. One important relationship I've seen of others, previous reports, is the human factor and the ability to work in teams in the individual hospital. It seemed to be entirely decisive. This often applies both to facilitating work and to creating a good working environment around a positive team leader. We could probably bring up more examples, but the human factor seemed to be completely decisive for the outcome of the individual hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e320	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1746]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e335	The Court of Auditors has held in Document No. 3:10 for 2002-2003 presented its findings in the study on the functioning of follow-up and surveillance in the field of child protection. This is a comprehensive report and a report that gives us considerable insight into this part of society. The report shows that there are some significant weaknesses in parts of child protection. It concerns the supervision, the planning of each child, the contact of child protection with the home of the child and the biological parents, and certain authorisation procedures. This report also shows that, to some extent, we lack relevant foster homes and relevant institutional places in parts of the country. More and more highly qualified supervisors are needed, and some foster homes do not receive the professional follow-up, advice and assistance they need. Today, the tasks and responsibilities for child protection are located partly in the municipalities and partly in the state. Until the end of 2003–2004, the county also played a role in this work. That part of the work is now taken over by the state. The municipalities report to the counties every six months, including: on the number of children in the municipality with out-of-home relief measures, on care placements and on coercive measures taken during the last six months. Municipalities shall also report on the number of children who have had to wait for the relevant assistance or care measures, after the decisions have been taken, on the number of children without supervisors and on how municipal child protection complies with child protection rules on deadlines. In general, reporting schemes have been established which should provide good and up-to-date information to the authorities on the current situation and also on developments. The county council shall, inter alia: monitoring, based on the systematic reporting, the performance of local authorities’ tasks under the legal provisions. The county is responsible for supervising the child protection institutions, and of course the county is also responsible for handling complaints on individual decisions taken by the municipal child protection service. The population is now also responsible for planning the development of institutional sites and ensuring that there are sufficient relevant sites in the county. It may not be acceptable for children to be placed in institutions outside their own country, if not professionally recommended. It has happened to some extent that children have been placed in institutions outside their own country, not because they are professionally desirable or professionally sound, but because they have simply not been relevant places in their own country. It cannot be accepted! Here, the Members shall now have a plan for the development of the necessary places in their own county. We hope that it will work well. Now it is not that child protection in Norway is a single long, sad story. Things happen in the field of child protection that give cause for great optimism. I would like to mention in particular the courses that foster parents now receive and are very satisfied with, and that have been named PRIDE. I also want to mention the extra follow-up that is given to foster homes with particularly demanding foster children. A significant effort is now being made to recruit foster homes and supervisors. In addition, we now see significant efforts in targeted research here in the country, in our participation in international research, and we get to share in the results that one comes up there. So we're not going to draw a general dismal picture of child protection. But when such a study as the Riksrevision has now carried out shows us so many errors and so many shortcomings, it should make us react, because this is one of the areas of society where we can withstand neither faults nor shortcomings. There are many areas of society that are not working optimally. It is part of the political debate and part of the political priority. These may include roads, railways, aircraft, etc. that doesn't work exactly as we wish it worked. But when it comes to such an area as this, we can't allow ourselves to be wrong and missing. When society assumes responsibility and care for a child, it is completely irrelevant to talk about lack of resources or improper organisation. This must be in place! This is one area where I don't think there is really any particular party political debate or discussion. Here it's about an area that's going to work, and then we agree on it. History has shown us how to go in such an area of society if we are not very attentive and follow up these measures in a good way. Now we see, I believe, a significant partisan consensus on these fundamental ideas in the area of child protection. But of course we also see here a different approach to the organization, what you think is the best way to do it. The Party has proposed the establishment of free and independent supervision in the field of child protection. I do not agree with this proposal, partly because I have major problems in seeing how this can work in practice, and partly because I believe that if there is any area in this society where the public should have control and supervision of what is happening, the guidance on what should happen is that in the area of child protection. I see it as a very unreasonable idea that this should be added to a private enterprise. The Committee proposes that the Storting should ask the Government to provide information on how the errors and shortcomings of the Riksaudition point out in its report have been corrected and that this should be done in the spring of 2005. I'm sure the Council of State sees the need for the Storting here to be briefed, and that this will be followed up in every way by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e363	Initially, I think there may be reason to stress that this case concerns the Riksrevision's study of follow-up and supervision of child protection. The National Audit Office’s study is not a report that analyses in detail the quality of child protection services in general in relation to the provision of care to children under care. The whole approach and purpose of the report is aimed at assessing how the State, county and municipal child protection services carry out their tasks in relation to the follow-up and supervision of children located in foster homes and institutions. Through such a report, the main focus of course will be on what is critical, deficient and inadequate. One then gets hurt quickly to draw a picture of this being the issue of child protection in Norway today. It would be very unfortunate and grossly misleading. In this debate, we must not forget that child protection work is being carried out very well in the country's counties and municipalities. Through the high priority given to this important area of society in recent years, child protection has contributed to a significant increase in resources and staffing. I am therefore pleased that the rapporteur stressed in his contribution all the positive things that are also happening. For example, some populists have used political folklore to discriminate against child protection in order to ensure that children and young people living under conditions that could harm their health and development are provided with the necessary help and care. For my part, I'm more concerned that child protection intervenes too rarely than that they intervene too often. Having said that, I would also like to mention that the National Audit Office's investigation reveals serious deficiencies in several areas: Too many children under care do not have action plans. There are poor routines in many municipalities regarding contact with children in foster homes or institutions. For many children, no supervisor has been appointed, as laid down by law. Under the scheme, municipalities are to supervise children living in foster homes. It is in many ways in the nature of the matter that access to a foster home may be more difficult than in an institution. Nevertheless, it is very important that this work be given high priority. The foster homes and children living in foster homes are often the most vulnerable and vulnerable. It has been a problem that too many foster homes crack, with the consequence that children have to be moved from foster home to foster home. The supervisory function is very important to prevent such a situation, not least because the supervisor should be a kind of lawyer for the child, but also in relation to caring for the needs of the foster home towards the municipality. But I think, as the case-rapporteur was also involved in his statement, that the courses that have been going on for some time, the so-called PRIDE courses, are a very important tool to prevent foster homes from cracking, and that those who actually become foster parents know what it means and are prepared for the task. The state, county councils and municipalities have and have had different roles and tasks to perform in the overall provision of child protection in Norway. The individual laws and regulations in this field set out a number of detailed requirements and requirements, such as: municipalities and county councillors shall respect the follow-up and supervision of children under care. Each requirement is in isolation very well justified. However, the sum of them may be mostly made, especially for the smallest municipalities, and there are very many of them known in Norway. For a time, the media focused on the quality of child protection, especially in the smallest municipalities. Here it was found that more than 100 municipalities were so small that they had only one position or less attached to child protection. This means that for many years very many child-restraint workers around the whole country have been working all alone with often very heavy and stressful issues – without a professional environment and colleagues leaning on and consulting with them. In addition, the problem is that conditions can become so small and transparent that you may fail to respond to care failures due to friendship or knowledge. This issue should be a point in the ongoing debate on the municipal structure in Norway. Therefore, I think it is a very important grip the Minister for Children and Family have taken by establishing 26 teams to be directed directly to each municipality and individual matters – as a good support and adviser to the municipalities, not least to the smallest.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e394	Caring in foster homes or institutions is a very strong intervention in the lives of the individual child and in the individual family. It is therefore very important that the framework around such intervention be perfectly clear, and not in any way so as to make the situation worse for the child concerned and for the family affected. During the last year, a number of issues have been seen in the media, which unfortunately may indicate that this is not the case in all contexts. At least I think that a minimum of what you can expect is that the administration itself follows the rules that apply in such cases. Unfortunately, this report shows that this is not too much. Child protection in each municipality has first-line responsibility in this type of issue. It is therefore very serious when the Riksrevision reveals that the municipalities do not comply to a large extent with the legislation applicable to the area. The legislation clearly states that action plans are to be drawn up for children affected by care transfers, but a whole of 28 pst. by the municipalities have replied to the Riksrevision that this is not always done. In the case of follow-up of children placed in foster homes or institutions, the situation is even more serious. Enter the full 50 pst here. of the municipalities involved in the study, that there are insufficient procedures for contact with the children in foster homes. For the children who are in the institution, the whole number is 70 pst. In this context, it is important to stress that it is the State that has the overall responsibility for its functioning under the legislation. That's why there's every reason to focus further on it. During the examination of this matter, the Audit Committee held a hearing, including: a Member State was a participant. The people have, as they know, responsibility for, among other things. administrative supervision — with what has been the tasks of the county, which has now been transferred to the State. In this consultation, it became clear that the supervision of child protection institutions had become a balancing item. It is serious that the county, whose task is in fact to ensure that laws, regulations and regulations are followed, with open eyes fail to comply with the regulations themselves. It is not acceptable at all in the light of the Progress Party. The National Audit Office’s report also reveals that there is not enough control system for the tasks to be carried out by the protection of children. This is in many ways the whole main problem that is made visible through this report. As I said, when the statesmen who themselves have the task of ensuring that the laws and regulations are followed do not follow them, the problem becomes quite obvious. This is very alarming given the considerable power of child protection towards families and individuals with whom they come into contact through their work. Therefore, as we in the Progress Party have assessed it, it is clear that there is a basis for establishing a separate and independent supervision to ensure that the legislation is complied with. Such child protection supervision should address both complaints about the functioning of child protection and carry out controls on child protection institutions. That is why I am addressing the motion put to the vote by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. In conclusion, I would also like to comment briefly on the questions raised by Mr Engebretsen in relation to such supervision. I think it must be due to a manifest misunderstanding on the part of Engebreitsens when it is claimed that this should be put on some form of contract or put out to competition. The whole objective of the Progress Party’s proposal to establish such supervision is to increase the focus on supervisory tasks. It is not a question of a contract, competitive outsourcing or an improvement in efficiency. The whole motive and purpose is that work in this area should be carried out in a better way. We also know that the state has now taken over the tasks that the county municipality had in the past. If the county officials are to supervise this, we can find ourselves in a situation such as that of the goat and the oat bag. I therefore believe that it is a very good proposal to establish an independent supervision to control these tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e411	The representative of Henrik Rød has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e414	I agree that there is a lot of good child protection work going on around. Much of this is done by the heroes of our society, I would say. But this report also shows that there is so much failure that we have to take it seriously, and so does the Committee when it asks the Council of State to come back and inform us about how this has been corrected. So let's not forget that what we're really talking about is individuals, children and young people, for whom society has taken care of, and families, mothers and fathers, who have voluntarily or coercively left care for their children to society. So it's very easy to say: now we've reorganized, now everything's going to be so much better. It could be a sleeping cushion. It is the content of this organisational change and the focus on better child protection for children that must be the primary objective of the State’s taking over the tasks. After the National Audit Office's report, it must be allowed to say that the very least size the Council can demand is that the Council of State imposes on its members, and also enables them, to implement all, absolutely all, the statutory supervision of child protection institutions. There are no reasons that are good enough to defend that we do not control children and young people who are placed in child protection institutions, and not only control them, but also the conditions under which they live. We have been told that the statesmen do not have sufficient resources to carry out the statutory control. This has also been the responsibility of Stortinget. The size of the population has been cut off for several years, and the Stortinge has been informed that the population has not had the resources to carry out these tasks. So here's more people who have to take responsibility and make sure that it's corrected. I would like to remind this room that SV has been in favour of an authorisation scheme for child protection institutions for many years. We've been saying for a long time that it's easier to open a child protection facility than a sausage shed, and it's been true. We have been faced with fears that such an authorisation system could lead to a risk of loss of diversity in institutions. That's probably not right. The variety may be ensured by the design approval regulations. I am very pleased that the Stortinget has now adopted an approval system. SV expects the Council of State to address the municipalities and to oblige the county councillors to work to ensure that all children and young people under care have action plans. Since there is so much variation between municipalities, the Council of State should consider adjusting the regulations and setting clear and unambiguous requirements for the preparation of the action plan for all children under child protection measures and for the review of these measures as the child and the young person evolve. I would like to point out that SV and the Workers' Party during the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002, on the protection of children and young people, proposed to provide the county council with an instructional authority in relation to the protection of municipal children. The intention was not to reduce the municipal maritime administration but to strengthen the supervision of child protection in order to ensure legal certainty in child protection matters. Here, in fact, the consideration of the individual child must go ahead of the pride of the individual municipality, which I will also stress has too little resources to do these tasks; sail if these have to go first. A question that is discussed in this context with the supervisor – which has been mentioned in the report and which has also been raised by several others here – is whether the supervisor should be employed as such in the protection of children, because it may also be the protection of children in itself that does not work for the child. It may argue that supervisors should cooperate closely with, but nevertheless be independent of, the protection of children in their working conditions in the municipality. It is almost as if I would like to laugh when I read that five county councils have not had plans for the current and future needs for institution spaces in child protection. Even worse, when the department replies that they do not want to comment on the plans of the county councils and that they have not received any indication that the size of the offer has been too poor. They justify that they do not want to regulate the institutions of the county councils. It is difficult for me to understand that a detailed management can be called if the government in the department is asking for plans for institution sites in child protection that are actually provided for by the Children's Protection Act. I do not know which newspapers the department reads, but at least I have been able to read stories constantly, especially about difficult young people for whom the county municipality has not had institutional places, and who have been placed in more or less random and often also incompetent private small institutions outside the county, on which the case-rapporteur was also involved. I would like to point out that whether a municipality implements a care assumption or a voluntary relief measure is not the goal, but the start of the help the child needs. It is not enough to remove the child from a potentially harmful home environment; it is also necessary to establish a new, good and safe breeding environment, with good care professionals. Swivel then, the job is not done for child protection. There is a need to monitor and monitor these children’s well-being and to provide them with the care and assistance they need. Often those who have taken on the task as foster parents will also need this follow-up. The follow-up must be not just a check, but a real contact with the child and the foster parents. In many cases, foster parents may need measures to enable them to carry out the tasks. This could be done, for example, by: include relief, child support or other assistance to prevent the dissolution of foster homes. We've heard a lot of stories about that, too. I have honoured those who do a good job in child protection, but we also have to make sure that they get the follow-up that allows them to endure in these tough jobs. The debate is in many ways a defeat for our welfare society. We're really discussing how our society fails the least of us. It is children and young people who have been taken from their parents, because they are not given the care they need. Many of these children have experienced serious health problems, and several of them have lived under very difficult growth conditions before society intervened. And here I agree with the representative Martin Engeset, I think that child protection is acting too rarely, and not too often. But when society takes such a serious step in a small person's life, when society stamps parents as unqualified caregivers for its children – yes, then we have to expect society to have care and safe conditions to provide the child or the youth. When society resorts to coercion, we have to expect society to provide resources that provide a good growth and a safe environment. As a conclusion, I will take Inger Hagerup's words and turn them into mine: Be impatient, councillor. Don't wait for the National Audit Office reports! I ask that she stay informed about the situation in child protection, follow up on every matter she hears about, get involved in matters, so that she gets an overview of the shortcomings – whether there are resources that do not go to, whether there is more we need to understand, or whether we need to change the legislation. I know we have a government council that takes child protection seriously, but also let the Storting know when there is a need to make some changes, because the children in child protection care are the children who need our attention and care the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e442	The Centre Party is not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee. We have not been able to participate in the process set out by the Committee in relation to Document No. 3:10 for 2002-2003. We record that the committee has implemented a tidy hearing. The right-wing uncovered grave is missing in today's child protection, but also, as I would like to stress, a strong commitment to improvement. There are comments and answers from the State Councils, and it is from the municipalities, from the supervisory bodies, and from those who are engaged in foster care. Not least, we see that there are many people involved in child protection who do an invaluable job and who need to be able to do an even better job. We look forward to the feedback that Stortinget is asking for today, which will be provided in 2005. It is likely that it will be useful and necessary then, both for the Committee on Control and the Committee on Constitution and for the Trade Union Committee, to go back to the record of the hearings that follow today to see if what has been requested has been followed up. After all, well-functioning child protection is about young and old children who are vulnerable, who are defenceless, and where it is invaluable to go in and give them a new start and a good follow-up. It's also about parents who need the necessary help and guidance. I found it clear here today, both by Document No. 3:10 and of what the Committee has said, it is far better and more important to prevent than to bring in repairs afterwards. Thus, it is a crossroads of thought that very much preventive work in the municipalities is being cut and prioritised today because of a lack of resources. It is important to have qualified staff, it is important to have sufficient staff and to have case handlers who have the possibility over time both to enter into the direct proceedings and to engage in interdisciplinary cooperation with other bodies and individuals within the municipality. The central party will also stress that, in relation to many smaller municipalities, intermunicipal cooperation is important. We are very pleased that the Government has now entered into a pre-authorisation process for child protection institutions. There is a theme that has been a recurrence in this room, which is now finally in place. Let me stress that in the follow-up to the Council of State, it is also important to follow up the need for openness in individual matters. Here it's asking for guidelines when it comes to publicity, because it's an area that's difficult, but it's important to have an open debate about how child protection works at any given time. Then I have to say that I feel a need for the Council of State to consider whether the principle of supply is what is best for children's protection, that the law on public procurement is to be applied in relation to the provision of a child. I thought it was scurvy when someone should look at such offers in the same way as one ordered other goods. So it's exciting to see how these 26 teams work. For a period of time, I had the opportunity to do an experience in the field of drugs and social services. A three-year plan was put in place to strengthen social services. There was a small, unusual plan called "Knowledge and Brewing". For that it was set at 20 million. kr per. years, and the main goal was that no one working at a social office would feel that they were entirely alone, everyone would have the opportunity to participate in a community, a forum in their own country. The final report came when I had returned to Stortinget. It was very happy and – I have to say – surprising to record how much these 20 million. It would have meant strengthening self-confidence and allowing individuals in the social office to do a better job because they felt that they were part of a larger community. I want to relate this to the 26 teams, because I think it is very useful and important that those who work in the municipalities get the opportunity to receive the advice and guidance that these teams will provide. So in the end, either one of you is talking about enhanced responses to a single child or talking about taking care of it, it's hard processes. But then it's important to stress that there's a strong need for a good follow-up. For me, it turns out that although the government now says that municipalities have been strengthened in 2004, the actual ratio is that pension expenditure has increased by DKK 4 billion more than planned, and the tax intake is DKK 3.4 billion less than planned in 2003. That means that the extra $6 billion that the municipalities have got is already used and so it is. It's dry numbers. It's not a debate about municipal economics we have in this case, but it will be like this for a government council that's going to follow up the shortages that are here, that it'll be impossible to escape the fact that the municipalities have their economic situation in this picture. So I'm assuming that the Council of State also includes it in the assessments it's going to make. Otherwise, I'm afraid this will be too much the same as sticking my head in the sand – and we can't do that in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e464	When the public takes care of a child because it is considered that the parents themselves are not able to provide the child with the necessary care, love and supervision that every child is entitled to — even if this is not always a public assessment — the public must at least make sure that the child’s offer is better than the child had in the past. But how do we know that this is the case when we can read in the National Audit Office's report on the lack of supervision of the institutions in which the child is located? Hundreds of children have not been asked if they are well, whether they feel that they have all their needs covered, or whether they feel that they are being loved, because the statesmen – even 12 of the 19 – do not have the resources or finances to carry out the necessary supervision. First, it takes the public children from their parents, most likely and most often because of care failure, so as to burden the most vulnerable and indifferent of us all for enough a care failure by not even making sure they are well. This is not only awfully sad, it is also irresponsible and scandalous. Perhaps the time has come for a child protection reform that is far more extensive than the one we had in the state acquisition. How can we know, when we don't have the necessary supervision, that in a few years it won't show up again things like the children's home case in Bergen? When we were at Torgalmenen this summer, I met several orphans who had just become authoritative. They came to me and told terrible stories from their time at children's homes in Norway. They were no longer located in Hordaland, because there were no suitable institutions. - No, we can't know! We can just assume that this doesn't happen anymore. But being insecure, not knowing, is completely unacceptable. The Progress Party does not believe that this will help the state to own the institutions itself, to approve the private institutions and to supervise it all. It'll probably lead quickly to feces and oat sack syndrome. And as if that is not enough, government employees in the professional teams will also help the municipal child-restraint workers to place the child in the most appropriate state-approved institution. Can't you see that this is going to be a terrible lot of hats for the state to wear? It is in this context that it is important, very important, with free and independent child protection supervision. And it's an obvious misunderstanding if there's someone who thinks there's something private that the Progress Party is now proposing. We are overseeing compliance with the Competition Act, we are overseeing media compliance with their laws, we have health oversight, we have maritime surveillance, we have aviation oversight, and more. But we do not have any supervision to ensure that the weakest and the most incorruptible do not suffer congestion when the public has taken care of them. The need for free and independent supervision is self-evident. The freedom that this supervision may have to carry out for itself assessments of where they want to carry out supervision can also be a guiding principle for the municipalities, where, unfortunately, too many have failed to do the job for the children for whom it is the responsibility of the public. I then think first of all of the lack of action plans and supervisors. I don't worry that child protection rarely intervenes, but I'm seriously concerned that child protection comes too late, when the crisis and repositioning are already a fact. Instead, child protection could come in much faster, and thus perhaps prevent it in the child's own home, as a representative spoke of earlier. There can be no argument in the municipalities that you do not have resources, not when it comes to something as important as a child who has been removed from his home. Care should be taken not to place one child in an institution until it is actually both a supervisor and a plan of action in place, with very special exceptions, where the crisis is acute and the child must be placed in a shelter. It turns out that a large number of care places take place on a voluntary basis. This means that parents recognize that for a short or longer time they do not have the power to take care of their children, or that they almost feel compelled to do so because the pressure from child protection is very great. These parents are convinced that their children are better off in a public institution, a private, publicly approved institution or in foster parents for some time. Then it's the public's duty to make sure that the children get better, and also to make sure they're well. In the case of foster homes, we need them, we need safe homes with the necessary skills. But when the public can't follow up the foster homes, the foster homes wear out, and you can't do it anymore. The result is that you are standing without a sufficient number of foster homes and without any particular new recruitment. I must admit that it is quite heartwarming to see advertisements in the newspapers as for example.«We are two siblings seeking a home». It reminds me of menless dogs, and Norway is very little worth in 2004. By ensuring good follow-up, and not least by ensuring good training, I think that both the recruitment and motivation of the already existing foster homes would have been much better. The National Audit Office’s report on the supervision of child protection institutions paints a gloomy picture. We have no idea how the children are doing, and this public emergency unit must no longer be allowed to happen. We must not forget that children are the adults of the future, and the children for whom public responsibility lies must also have a chance to become happy adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e493	The National Audit Office’s examination of child protection is useful. I would also like to point out that the Riksrevision has given particular attention to the year 2001 in its report. The review confirms the need for further professional and administrative development undertaken by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. Many of the problems raised by the Riksrevision are also presented in detail in St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002 and in Ot.prp. No 9 for 2002-2003. The professional and organisational shortcomings highlighted by the Ministry in these documents are the basis for the Government's proposal and the decision of the Storting to change the organisation of child protection. In a debate on child protection, it is important to me that child protection – despite its weaknesses – has undergone significant improvements in recent years. Now, the main trend in development is the increased use of relief measures at home, which is also in line with the intentions of legislators. With the current reform, we will further support under some desired directions for the protection of children. First of all, we want to increase our commitment to good local solutions and local action in a cooperation between the family and the child protection service. We want to focus more on prevention, and we want to develop how few possible children will need to be placed outside their own home. This also means that child protection has to be addressed earlier. In this process, it is necessary to make more use of both actual knowledge and skills. Childcare should know that what you do is best for the child – it doesn’t just work out on good intentions. But for this it is necessary, among other things. increased focus on research and quality and, in particular, improved control and quality assurance of the measures used. The objectives of the reform are to be achieved by the establishment of an organisation for the protection of children and families in the state, which is based on a high level of competence and closeness to the users and municipalities, with a proper and high level of service and with professional requirements for private institutions. The requirements for private institutions will also be the same as for public institutions. Based on research, child protection needs to know what you're doing, and why you're doing it. It is an objective that all professional work carried out should have as far as possible documented effects. I would like to take the opportunity to say that I might be a little worried that some of the Committee's comments are so bombastic. Quantitative data is not the same as whole and full truths. For example, the National Audit Office found that many municipalities had not in all cases developed plans for children with child protection measures. It must be said that some young people will be over 18 at the time of the survey, and there is no need for a plan of action. Others will be under investigation and therefore have no plan yet. Thirdly, there is no specific template for such plans, but guidance. Local authorities may therefore have answered no to the question of whether they have developed a special plan, even if child protection actually has a plan for the child’s care situation, for the child’s schooling and for the child’s treatment. If such conditions are included in the assessment, the picture may be somewhat different. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that too many children are suffering from poor follow-up. We'll work hard to get something done with that. We're also going to look at and evaluate whether more concrete things are going to be done in relation to the plan tool. Another example: the National Audit Office found that some of the municipalities – five of them – had not developed their own plans to ensure sufficient number of institutions, as required by law before the establishment of the State's child protection and family protection. In this context, the Committee wonders whether the Ministry has not intervened. However, although not all county councils had their own institutional plans, they had at all times drawn up general, comprehensive child protection plans, where the provision of institutions was integrated. Through these plans and other contacts with the county municipalities, the Ministry has found that the provision of – to say – ordinary child-retirement facilities has been satisfactory. This applies to both dimensioning and quality. But then we have some institutions that are used for children and young people with serious behavioural problems. Here the offer has been deficient. This challenge has been addressed by the Ministry. After a ministerial panel of experts appointed in 1997, it was established that the institution alone is not suitable for this group, we have developed and implemented alternative home-based services together with the county councils. More than a thousand families have been treated in this way between 2000 and 2004, and it is a pleasure to note that the results are good. In addition, we're just working with the behavioral institutions in these days, both to assess who we have, and to look at what we're going to have in the future in terms of these. The fact that the county councils have done bad professional work in this area has repeatedly been mentioned with the county councils. It is also mentioned in St.meld. No 40 and Ot. pp. No 9th@item: There is evidence that this may be one of the main reasons why the country has now taken over the institutional offer. I would also like to point out a third point: of course, the Committee is responsible for correcting child protection errors and deficiencies. Through the reform in question, I believe that we have taken a major step in the right direction. However, government governance is not meant to be the main driving force in municipal child protection, nor is it the intention of legislators. When the state takes greater responsibility for child protection, I will bet heavily on becoming a central resource of competence for the municipalities. In such a perspective, the most important aspect of the reform is that we can better assist municipalities in improving their skills, thus strengthening municipal child protection. The overall objective is to achieve the greatest possible success while children live in their own families, possibly in foster homes. I also think that the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa had a good example of how we think the teams should work. In the reform process, we have improved legislation through the first four new regulations. It's regulation on the approval of institutions regulation on the quality requirements of institutions regulation on the supervision of institutions the new home regulation The National Audit Office’s study is an important contribution to the success of reforms and further development of child protection. In the coming years, the Ministry will continue to work to ensure that child protection has sufficient professional resources to succeed in as many cases as possible. The importance of prevention and family and community-based treatment could lead to greater efficiency and more functional children and families. At the end of the day, I want to say that the reform we are now implementing in the field of child protection, organisational, professional, quality and in every way, is in full swing. And it goes very well according to plan. I want to commend the child protection workers throughout the country, who in an offensive, good and enthusiastic way during these days are in the midst of a transition that is very important for Norwegian child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e534	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e538	The Council of State says that the Committee has been too bombastic in part of its comments. That would probably basically say, I think, to most of the remarks we have, given that we do not support what the Government has done or said. The findings show that there are actual errors, that there is a lack of action plans, that there is a lack of supervision, etc. The Council of State believes that possible statistical uncertainties — that the correct figure is not 8 pst. but 6 pst., that certain assumptions such as that those over 18 should not have had such plans, etc. – does this report, as it exists, weaken, and does she believe that the Committee should have seen something different and milder about the findings that actually exist there?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e554	As the Council of State, I would like to be very careful to advise the Stortinget on what to do or should do, but perhaps rather refer to the answers that the Ministry of Children and Family has written and that the Riksrevision has provided in its full scope in the report, which perhaps in some areas explains a little more in-depth as well as the situation as it is today. I guess that's my answer. The National Audit Office's report is serious. We could say that if there is one or two defects, if there are two or five states, it is equally serious where defects and defects occur. All these defects and deficiencies have been addressed, and I have great faith that we will be able to rectify most of this in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e561	We have state institutions. The State shall approve private institutions. We have five regional government offices, child protection offices. We have 26 state child protection teams. The State shall supervise its own institutions. They shall supervise private institutions and shall supervise the municipalities. Then I have to ask the Council of State: does not the Council of State feel that this can be done in most cases for the Council of State itself, and does she not see the need to be able to assess at least a free supervision that safeguards not only the protection of children, but also the whole growth around a child?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e568	I think this organisational structure that we're now adding up to in child protection is the right one. This proposal, which was also promoted by the Progress Party in the context of the discussion of the Child Protection Communication, was duly debated at this Chamber and the Stortinge did not join that proposal. I think we have a neat organization. We now get a child protection that gets closer to the children and to the municipalities, precisely because we have the ‘skinned’ of the administrative apparatus. Instead of 19 County Administrative Child Protection Offices, we've got five regions. We're about to put almost 200 people in 26 new teams. These shall also be operational down to the individual child. One of the most important things is that in our smallest municipalities, there has been a half or one job – perhaps two jobs – where one has been alone in difficult matters. They have had no one to discuss with. This will now compensate the teams in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e584	I agree with the Council of State that the regulations that she has now decided to apply are good. But there's one regulation I'd like to challenge her, and it's the one that's going on oversight. The National Association for Children’s Protection was critical in adapting the number of supervisory visits in line with practice. They agree that internal audit and system audits will improve supervision, but they want more adults to come and see how they are doing, not least because the institutions will mainly be many of the same as they have today, and we know that in some of these institutions there have been frameworks that have made both mental and physical abuse possible to these children. I would like the Council of State to respond to this invitation from the National Children's Protection Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e591	We have discussed supervision in many contexts, including: with statesmen. Some of the things that have struck me, and that have puzzled me, have been that the statesmen have said that they know where to go to make sure that children in the institution are well. In other words, over time we know the institutions that should perhaps have ten visits this year instead of eight, which were previously imposed. Other institutions might be able to do a little less because you're safe there. That we have amended the regulation, so that there will be fewer individual supervision, both unannounced and notified, while we have introduced a system audit, I think it is a proper development. We also have to follow closely and evaluate this. But in addition, we have approval requirements and quality requirements. The new regional child protection system also has a continuous duty to maintain and control contact with the institutions in terms of quality, so that the approval can continue to be maintained or withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e598	It is tempting to challenge the Council of State when it concerns the need for resources both for better supervision, as stated above. the stress to the County of Tora Aasland on the need for resources there, and for a strengthened municipal economy, when the main point here is good local solutions. But I guess it follows up and makes the resource needs clear in the budgetary context. So I want to challenge her at another point, and it's about the principle of supply. There's one added two criteria. One is quality, and the other is price. One has not said anything about the relationship with geography, and my question will then be, when a youth from the west region, for example, according to these criteria can be sent to North Norway or another place far away, how does it correspond to the goal of child protection for treatment near the home?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e605	It does not match. I guess the representative might refer to a look in a newspaper yesterday where it could look like this. In the case of children who are going to an institution, the quality shall be the most important decision-making factor for the institutions we are going to use in the future. Any child in that country shall be placed in the best institution for the child. In most cases it will be the nearest possible home. The look-up yesterday gives a completely wrong picture of how we intend to do it. I think I've answered the question. We agree. Part of what is stated in the notice is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e614	It's right as the Council says. I refer to a page that was in the journal. No one can comment on the practice in relation to the title ‘Children on offer’. It's the director of the West Region. He's doing the right thing because there's two criteria. It's quality, and it's price. Then it is close to asking if part of the quality should actually be that the offer is close to the world, so that one can achieve the goal of treating the children close to the world. But if it's the case that the look-up is misleading, I'm going to give the council the opportunity to solve this, except for the one minute she first had at her disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e619	If that's possible, otherwise we'll have to take it afterwards. It is right, as the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa says, that quality is of course one of the most important criteria to be taken into account, and that being close to home is an important quality for a child, although for some it might be good to get a little further away. But that will apply to the fewest cases. In the case of a tender for 20 children’s institutional places, which have actually expired, it is based on the legislation previously adopted by the Stortinget. The size is probably also known that NPISHs operating child protection are exempted from tenders. I'm very happy about that. I also know that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade will review the law governing the tendering principle. I do well to have the same attitude as Meltveit Kleppa in relation to children to be placed in an institution. I'm not sure if this is the best way to do it. But the 20 places are to be used by children primarily where the children live. If a place is decided to be used – or we can use it – in North Norway, it will probably be a child from North Norway who uses this place. It's not worse than that. It is therefore quite misleading – I thank you for allowing me to clarify it – what the paper says.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e629	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e642	Then we are ready to go to voting in the matters that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e669	The President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-02-05.ana.ud486e700	During the debate, Mr Rød put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose the establishment of free and independent child protection supervision.’
