ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e16	The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Ingrid Fiskaa, has taken the seat. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e34	I would like to take up a few things that I did not get taken up in my main post. First to the Council of Churches: in the debate on the training of faith, the Stortinget was concerned with the evaluation of the reform, not least by in-flight evaluation. I noticed that the Council of State is also concerned about this, and was there in its article. A joint committee was at the time concerned that religious training would have a width that ensured that it embraced many children and young people. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State to elaborate on how she sees that this important in-flight evaluation should and can be carried out, and what is envisaged by the Council of State and the Department on this matter. Although it is too early to carry out the evaluation, it is not too early to plan it and start preparing it. This issue of church maintenance has also been raised in the debate. Then I want to tell the Stortinget and the Council of State that in some places the churches are really being rehabilitated and humiliated. Yesterday I was at the service of my home church, Gjerstad, which was reopened after being closed a year after being rehabilitated for 5 million. kr, materially through municipal and collected funds. So where it's will, there's opportunities. So for a couple of things under the Department of Education. I would like to point out that the Archive Foundation now finally receives its own budget line. The Archives Foundation is an important institution for communicating the history of occupation to children and young people. Every year, very many schools from the Sørlande Archives visit and get insight into our close history. It is important that operations are ensured predictability through the creation of their own budget line. It's happening now. One of the five basic skills at St.meld. No 30 is to be able to master digital tools. This is an area where many students have greater competence than their teachers. It is therefore important for teachers to be able to gain a level of competence in this area. Over the last few years, an excellent competence programme has been developed at the University of Agder, Teacher ICT, in which a large number of teachers have participated. I would like to point out the comments made by the Committee on Teachers' ICT and Digital Competences. In all budget debates in recent years, the free school chapter has been a topic. It surprises me that the opposition on the left will not take inward that we have a regulation, adopted by the Storting, which requires a certain allocation. The allocation above this chapter is governed by rules. A reduction in this amount would therefore have to mean either a deliberate under-budgeting or a need to amend the legislation and legislation. The legislation will not be amended in 2005. That is why the opposition here will be doing a deliberate under-budgeting. I regret that as a blatant way of doing budgetary work. Finally, the representative from Orheim said in his post that the government parties in a note said that the SFO is only a storage place for the children. It's a statement that I can't see in my version of the setting. I also do not believe that the representative, Mr Bekkelem Orheim, will find it in his own.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e51	I am very pleased that there was a settlement between the government parties and the Progress Party, which among many good measures also found money for the national lines we have. These are schools where motivation is at the top, both among employees and, in particular, among students. Here, students learn, among other things, handling complex large and small plant machinery and trailers. They blow and build and transport everything that can be carried, and when they are done, the employers are ready, and they get a job. This is why the country lines are involved in building up the country. The construction industry needs an annual recruitment of an estimated 500 to 600 plant operators and repairers. Had it not been for these lines, it would have been very difficult to meet this demand. The Planning and Building Act imposes strict and clear quality requirements on those who are to carry out works. Authorised safety training requirements are part of this. Professional letters are a necessity to handle the expensive and complex machines you have today. For District Norway, with great distances, where buses and trucks are a necessity, it is very important that the lines are maintained. Here, for example, Illustrating high school in Hedmark is mentioned as one of those who do a great job and are involved in training boys and girls as business demand. Without this and the other lines would, among other things, the transport industry had serious problems getting skilled drivers to their cars and jobs. The negative ring-effects this could have given would have been disastrous for the districts. Our roads would have soon been filled with foreign trucks from Eastern Europe, with the problems this would have caused. That's why it was with great joy District Norway so that there was a deal on this particular thing with national lines. Another element that suggests the need for these lines is the national transport plan, which both states that new roads should be built and that old ones should be repaired. This requires, among other things: good driver, with good education and desire to have a local connection. We're now hoping that the money for these lines will be more long-term than they have been. It's only a few years since we had the same debate, even then the Progress Party was the rescue. With a more long-term perspective, the school and the employees will have more time to plan and do an even better job. The students know that they get a school place they want, the business knows that they get good people as the need is there, and Norway doesn't take in foreign labour for anything we can produce ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e68	The committee leader, Rolf Rikvam, summed up his introduction and his review of education and research policy that this shows that the government and government parties do not have the will to invest in education and research. From my point of view, nothing is more wrong than such a conclusion. It is almost such that I have to wonder if we have been present in the same committee and the same magnification in the last four years. I also think that what has emerged in today's debate shows that the conclusion to Requam is completely wrong. Perhaps it was best illustrated by the representative, Bjørnstad, who, by reference to the previous research report in Stortinget, referred to what the Labour Party Government had estimated would be the growth in Norwegian research funding to rise to OECD level. He then said from the pulpit at Stortinget that what has happened in this magnification period has meant that the growth is greater than the previous government had planned to rise to the OECD level. The OECD level is a moveable target, and not even the SV's alternative, irresponsible budget has managed to commit enough money to achieve the OECD target. It says a little bit about realism in this goal, and it probably gives us ample opportunity to discuss it when we get a new big message for spring. It must also have gone completely past the fact that the quality reform in higher education is fully financed, that more than SEK 1.1 billion has been spent to complete this reform, that we are now implementing a knowledge promise in the school where it is promised in the range of DKK 2-3 billion only in the continuing training of the teachers who are in school today, and that the education and research budgets have never been bigger than they are now. In this situation, I think we should be able to draw the opposite conclusion of what the committee leader did in his speech earlier today. What SV does is to grant more to the municipalities. At the same time, it was pointed out that appropriations were taken from private schools, which are only a purely redistribution in the municipal sector and in the individual municipalities. I also think it is striking when the Labour Party criticises the Government and Government parties in relation to appropriations, that the Workers' Party cuts in its own alternative budget for the education and research sector, and then criticises others for giving too little money. At the top of it all, the content and reform debate that is absolutely necessary – on the choice of educational method in school, on quality and content requirements, on school response requirements – the debate that is taking place too fully and that the Workers' Party and, in part, the SV have declared completely out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e81	Søren Fredrik Voie continues to swing. Instead of his opening talk, he told me that he and the Government had a settlement with today's elementary school and today's curricula. I am not sure that Søren Fredrik Voie has brought with him – it is possible it has missed a moment – that the general part of the curriculum in the school is fixed. That's where we've drawn up the goals, the knowledge and the student vision, and it's solid. It is possible that the Right wants to change it too, but the majority have at least said that the general part of the curriculum is solid. Then there has been a broad political consensus that we should change the curricula. We have agreed on this all the way – that they are not good enough, in that they have been too extensive, the learning objectives have been too unclear. We've said that we're going to do something about this. Politically, there has been a broad consensus that that part of the school we're going to do something about. But the basis, the general part of the curriculum, is bombed. And thank you for that, because that's where the human vision, the pupil's vision, the knowledge view is decomposed, and that's what's absolutely crucial. Voie now says in his final article that there has been a substantial investment in research. It is well possible that we have invested in research. But in relation to the goal, we're not getting any closer. The target, the average in the OECD, can be hailed. But we haven't gotten any closer, that's the problem. Still using countries we want to compare with, Sweden and Finland, between 3 and 4 pst. of gross domestic product for research purposes. We use 1.8 pst. – then I refer to the figures from the Research Council. At the beginning of the period, we used 1.6 or 1.7 pst. So we haven't reached the goal in this four-year period. Unlike other parties, we promoted in SV proposals. We created an escalation plan, a four-year escalation plan, so that we would achieve the goal in 2005. Unfortunately, we didn't get a majority for this, and now we see what's happening, that we're not getting any closer. This is quite serious. Research, research efforts, research training – all of this is the basis for the value creation we are going to have in the future. If we're not willing to bet on it, what are we really going to bet on in this country? That's the starting point, and we haven't gotten any closer, unfortunately. That's the status quo compared to where we started four years ago. We have to take that inward, because that's the actual ratio. There are numbers that we're all able to read, if we have a certain willingness to read what we're getting presented. So we haven't gotten any closer to what was the goal of research efforts. We have participated in the debate on the content of the school. We have proposed a new teacher training. We're saying we're going to have new curricula. We see the need to expand teacher training from four to five years, etc. I think we've gone into the debate on the contents of the school, so I don't understand why Right drives and masses of this over and over again!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e96	Yes, as the day goes, the vocabulary becomes more and more tense. The President will warn against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e99	I didn't intend to take the word several times, but after hearing the article from the representative, Ine Marie Eriksen, I actually think it's in place. I was a little uncertain for a while about who she was talking about, whether it was just the Workers' Party, but I understand that it concerns both the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. She claims that we have been absent from the content debate. I don't know if the representative Ine Marie Eriksen has been absent, but she must have been if she can't remember what happened when we adopted the Innst. S. No 268 for 2003-2004 in June, when both the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party were very clear and active in relation to the content debate. We are on the level of competence, we are on the increase in the number of hours, we are aware that the bridge – that is, what is between the general curriculum and the individual curricula – is to be replaced by the educational poster, and we are aware that new curricula are to be developed with clear objectives. In fact, I find it unheard of by the representative Ine Marie Eriksen to characterize parties that have really taken school content seriously, in the way she does. If we're going to get that stamp because we're also concerned about how this commitment of competence is going to happen and how we're going to get a good school, if we're going to mention resources, in a way to disqualify ourselves to have an opinion on the content, I think the representative should think again. We are concerned that the decisions taken by the Stortingen in relation to upgrading the school, which is to become a good learning venue for all students, are followed up with the necessary resources around the municipalities. That should also be the concern of the representative Ine Marie Eriksen. When we read and hear about cuts around, it would be strange if we didn't point it out when we talk about how the lift of competence and the strengthening of the school could be carried out. So I just want to remind you that the Central Party has rewritten one of the proposals, proposal No. 8, because the Presidency considered it to be a framework-dependent proposal. It is now rewritten and distributed in the hall. In addition, I would like to announce that the Central Party will support proposal No. 4 in the setting, where it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the establishment of a chiropractor study in Norway.’ The centre party is involved in the whole comment, it is in the vote, but we also want to be on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e115	Of all the important things we have discussed today, it is also important to remember that someone has to pay the bills; there are investments in research and thus new jobs. In the marine sector, 937 million. kr, i.e. Almost 35 pst. of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs budget, earmarked for research. The research council's effort in the marine sector is 525 million. kr. Innovation Norway has pledged nearly DKK 1 billion, a total of DKK 2.5 billion. I am pleased that it confirms the Government's stance on the marine sector. In addition, the tax FUNN, on which 436 companies in the marine sector have invested, is coming. And the industry has its own research fund, which is financed with a fee. To meet the challenges of the future, it is necessary to make better use of the resources devoted to research and development. It is therefore important and right that the industrial research appropriations should now be put on a competitive footing by the Research Council so that they can play up to and play together as far as possible with funds from other sources of funding. In the context of the so-called blue-green alliance, the focus is also on exploiting the potential of the marine sector and taking out synergies in relation to agriculture and the food industry. If we compare Norwegian efforts with what is happening in the EU – and we are part of that community in many ways – we must note that in the Lisbon Declaration, the EU promotes an ambition for Europe to be the most competitive region in the world. The commitment to research and development as an important instrument for building up a European research area, a so-called internal market for research, covers Europe as a whole, and we should then definitely be in that community as well. This means that EU research funding will increase significantly in the years to come, and it will provide great opportunities for Norwegian research environments. It is essential that Norwegian fisheries research, among other things, is properly structured to participate in this process in the future. If we succeed, there will be huge gains, including: in relation to future financing, knowledge building and networking in the Norwegian marine sector. Norway should and should have a clear role in Europe in the marine area of the European Regional Development Fund. The European Framework Programmes for Research also provide a significant boost to European scientific infrastructures. The government's ambition is that Norway should have the leading role as an international marine nation and be an attractive host country also for foreign researchers. As far as the sea is concerned, I wanted to stress that of course we have a geographical advantage, which has also been reinforced by tradition in the use, monitoring, management and exploration of marine resources. I want to give positive feedback and boast to the Marine Research Institute and the new research vessel «G.O. Sars, who recently won the Research Council’s Dissemination Prize for its MAR-ECO mission, an expedition that also contributed to the release of international funds, mainly from US funds, for increased marine research.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e128	I would like to receive another training that has not received so much attention in today's debate, but which is of great importance to an entire profession. Once again, with the support of the Advance Party, the Government is helping to create uncertainty and uncertainty about fishermen's security training. Quite rightly, the Committee considers that such training is important in order to prevent and, not least, to reduce the extent of accidents in one of the most dangerous occupations in the country, although this is reduced by more than 50 pst. The use of the "Kongsnes" cruise ship has been a success. The courses have been held along the coast, and the fishermen have been taken to the cages. The promise that now remains, is at the base of seven million. kr. In reality, this will mean that the mobile system can no longer be passed on. It is not surprising that both fishermen and their relatives react strongly. As a representative from the coastal and fishing district of More and Romsdal, I share that reaction. I'm amazed, troubled, and not least disappointed in the plurality. But the government party and the Progress Party do not take these reactions from the coast inwards. They do not appear to be taken seriously. It seems that saving a few million dollars on the state budget means more than the security of the practitioners of what I want to characterise as the country's most dangerous profession. This is a system that has worked. There seemed to be a trend in government policy that things that work should be discontinued. What is well-functioning must be made difficult to function. Then I ask myself, isn't the goal of making everyday life easier and better both for professionals and for most people in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e137	It was very interesting to listen to Ine Marie Eriksen and her rhetoric in the debate today. The only thing that can characterize the article is an attempt to shift the focus and responsibility for a broken policy. The report from the representative shows that the only quality focus from the Right is to initiate national monitoring, taking away from local schools both the possibility, competence, responsibility and, in particular, the internal quality development tool. The only answer from the Right to quality development in school is national tests, which are a failed strategy – we know that from experience from other countries. We know that the system is enormously cost-intensive, and that's nothing left. It helps control the teaching of a system that creates winners and losers, and that inhibits learning instead of promoting it. Ine Marie Eriksen believes that the left side is not involved in the debate on the content and quality of the school. I have hardly heard anything more unspeakable said from this pulpit. If there is something SV has been involved in and has made proposals about all the time, it is the content and quality of the school. I can frame something: we have proposed a new type of teacher training. We want an increased commitment to the training of teachers. We want internal quality systems at school to promote quality. We have proposed national tests to be an overall tool, where 5 pst. by the students, because we think we need to see what national development is like in school. We have proposed entrepreneurship in basic education and design and technology in education. We have proposed increased investment in ICT. And we want a lot, a lot more research. This whole setting is full of quality development measures at school. But it is that quality is also linked to economics and tools. In the case of private schools, the Right and Government have proposed an increase of about DKK 1 billion to private schools during this period. They say it's to increase the quality of school. When it comes to public school, you have the opposite rhetoric: less money and less quality. This is not related. It is not about quality in education when there are fewer teachers and more students, fewer sharing hours and fewer who receive training. The debate today shows that the Right's next step towards getting a better school is to introduce discipline. I look forward to hearing how this is going to be done. The budget adopted today shows that tax credits to the richest are displayed in the classroom and go directly at the expense of public schools. The right takes from quality development in public schools and gives to the rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e148	When I asked for the floor again, it was because of the post that Eva M. Nielsen had in relation to the training of faith. I experienced that the representative Nielsen there confirmed that the Workers' Party is ending up on the faith training reform. I think that's positive. I also respect that they want to try and then evaluate the reform, but the impression I'm left with is that the scope of the experiment should be kept to a minimum. For the Christian People's Party, we are of the opinion that the experiment must also have an extent that gives good reason for the evaluation. We are convinced that these means are money well spent. In recent times, priority is also shown in terms of funding. I think that the representative, Bekkelem Orheim, in his reply, said quite honestly that the Workers' Party was unable to give priority to belief training within its budget framework. It's an honest statement, but it also means that there's a priority. The commitment to faith training seems important to me. I think that if we succeed in this, it will also increase the chances of getting a common CRL in schools. I noticed with interest the positive comments of the Labour Party today about today's KRL subject. My disappointment about the Workers' Party is linked to what I see as a somewhat reserved attitude to the training of faith, an impression that was attached when I read in the Address Paper to the representative Trond Giske's reasons in relation to the operating allocation to Nidarosdom, where he said that he wanted to cover the operating allocation to Nidarosdomen by taking away from the training of faith. It tells me that there are many other church activities that in the Workers' Party are more important than faith training. Nothing would please me and the Christian People's Party more than if the Workers' Party too fully agreed to support the Church's belief training with sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e158	I will try not to prolong this debate more than necessary, but try to respond to some of the challenges I have encountered during the debate. First, I go to the representative Eva M. Nielsen, who challenges me in relation to what's going on in equality, and said there's not much happening on that front. I would just like to mention that in the last few years we have systematically set up a leadership course for women in the Church, we have focused on women's participation in post-graduate education from the Department's side, we have a network seminar for female members and senior leaders in the Church, and we also have a new service system to help us combine a better career with, among other things. The rest of your life. Unfortunately, it is especially important for women the way our society is built up, and I hope that in the long run we will get both women and men equally occupied with that. But these things really help to get women inside the Norwegian Church, and I don't think there's anything more done from previous church councils in this particular field than what we're doing now and we've done. But basically, as I said in my post, it's only 18 pst. of the priests who are women, and hence it will be shown again in relation to both bishops and prosters. So that's what's going on on evaluating the truss training, which Jan Olsen's representative challenges me on. When it comes to the training of trust, we add up to a broad evaluation. We want to give a vision of raising a bright and clear church, where children and young people get help to live life in faith, hope and love, as we say. The goal is to develop a systematic training that promotes Christian faith, gives knowledge of the Trinity God, and provides help to interpret life and lifelong learning for all from 0 to 18 years of age. Based on this vision and these objectives and values, the Council of Churches has proposed that the training should be evaluated throughout the project period. The training has an experience-based project organisation based on the church sounds of their own experiences. There are systematic so-called summary and forative evaluations of independent research institutions and the Diakon home and the Faculty of Association in collaboration with Otto Hauglin from the company Agenda. It's important that we have more church sounds to compare with. For this reason, I am very pleased that we have received support to double the effort, because when we have the evaluation, which is to go on and on, it is important that we have more projects to evaluate and also take with us the experience when we are going to develop the truss training fully, as we have said.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e167	I would like to make a few comments on the debate. I am not sure whether representatives Søren Fredrik Voie and Ina Marie Eriksen would have passed the exam in history if they claimed that the Workers' Party should have a debate on the content of Norwegian school. I remember then that the background to the big message and the reform that we dealt with before the summer was that the Workers' Party put down the Quality Committee during its last term of government. And I remind you that the Workers' Party has been in government for just one of the last seven years. We started reading tests, we reported Norway in international studies, and work-time reforms or testing of flexibility related to the hours spent by teachers were started. We were mostly in positions related to better teacher training, but it should not surprise Ine Marie Eriksen that an important part of the budget debate is about resources. Then the representative Ine Marie Eriksen also tried to take credit for the extensive expansion of the number of school hours in order to strengthen the basic subjects this year and next year. But it was obvious after a pressure from the Workers' Party in the budget agreement for the current year that we got it in place. The same tactic I also noticed that the State Council used Clement in relation to student finance, when she said that the students had it useful financially, and that was against her will. Jan Olav Olsen claims that the result that is now presented in some subjects is a judgment on L97. But if it's something the scientist who was behind the final evaluation points out, it's too early to give a final result of L97. And there are different experiences in different areas of primary school. There is a good deal of positive experience both in childhood and in childhood, but mostly in childhood, but weaknesses are also observed. These weaknesses want the Workers' Party to be able to rectify, and we did so in connection with the processing of the Storing Message before the summer. But when I referred to the PISA study earlier today, something was said about the student-teacher relationship and good enough teacher support, and I cannot, with my best will, understand that fewer teachers and larger groups or classes are a positive contribution to getting more adapted training. I think it is a pity and an underestimation of common sense when one claims that this has nothing to do with their child's schooling, when parents protest thousands of times against schooling around the municipalities, which is ultimately the responsibility of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e178	Arne Sortevik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e181	Then I have to use the short remark to note that several of the parties have used this as a summary debate, and not as a budget debate, and they have seen a change of course and a change of course. That's what the Progress Party would like to do. We have noticed two important course changes in the years that have passed. One is that establishing private schools has become easier. It is the quality that determines, and with approval it also follows public money. It should satisfy parents and students, and the Progress Party is also pleased with it. Through St. Meld. No 30, we definitely say goodbye to the high school. We get a focus on knowledge school. We're ending commitment as a learning strategy, which has been an accident for many students for many, many years. Hopefully we're done replacing learning with activity, so that we get a better school for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e190	Ine Marie Eriksen has also spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e193	Of course, talking about resources in school is not discriminating in the quality debate. But my observation, which obviously struck the opposition at a very delicate point, was that every time someone, the government included, travels a debate about the content of Norwegian school, the opposition tends to answer any question with a demand for more money. Then it will be with respect to report a total derailment when the representative Lena Jensen claims that the government stands for ‘less money and less quality’ in public schools, and that ‘taxes to the richest’ take quality from school. This is just a total derailment. What I allowed myself to point out was among other things. based on the last days’ headlines in the newspapers, where the Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre are positive to a system of, among others. school food, which will cost between 2 and 3 billion dollars a year. It's not an answer to poor learning outcomes and low school discipline.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e200	I have listened to the debate here today. It is true that there has been a lot of debate about education policy in general, and a little about the budget in particular. When I heard the debate, I thought I would listen a little bit extra, because there are some parties here in this room that would like to go together and form a new government as an alternative to the sitting government. Then I tried to hear a little bit about what was said about the field of education, because it's clear that it was going to be so wrong that these parties get a majority, it would be interesting to know what School-Norway is waiting for. I have to say that it was not very clear when I was sitting and listening to the debate today. From SV it is said that the PISA study may not be so important to listen to, there are other things that are much more important. The Labour Party, on the other hand, says that it is very important. In the case of school books, the Workers' Party clings to loan schemes as the most important thing, and they have to do that. While the Center Party says that the teaching curriculum is the most important and the right thing. In the case of the colleges, the Centerpartie says that the fresh-soles can be tolerated to some extent, while the SV and the Workers' Party say that they don't like it very much. Within the education budget, we see that SV will increase the training framework, while in its alternative budget, the Labour Party proposes to reduce the training framework in the budget. And last we also heard that the SV and the Center Party said no to national tests, while the Workers' Party said yes to it. It is not very clear to me which course points out. The debate has focused on some cuts and re-priorities in the budget. It is clear that when the opposition cuts in the transfers to the colleges, which are again directly theft from the municipalities – they steal from the municipalities – to finance their own actions here, there are many ways in which there will be a very narrow debate. But then the debate takes a small, polite turn-around at the end. I almost got the impression that it was a tribute to the Clemet School, in the sense that a change in the curriculum was supported. It was supposed to be missing, of course we support it. At least from the pulpit here, it has been said that the lifting of competences is a very important measure in the school system. Now we see that in the setting the opposition does not support this in the note form. What's hard for me to see, and what I, with my best will, can't see, is what the socialists' school is going to be like if they had to win the election. It can almost look as if the Clement School is written in stone tablets, and that you're not going to see any change in the important grips that the Kristin Clement, Right and Cooperation Administration have done. Then it can be very timely for any other majority in the next period that someone has gone up the road, gone the important steps and made the difficult decisions on behalf of the parents and the students of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e215	The President would point out that the use of terms such as ‘stjeler’ and ‘theft’ on a part of Storting’s business is not acceptable and would ask the representative to resign.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e218	There are a few things I would like to mention before the debate ends. Firstly, the Committee asks the Government to expand the number of new scholarships under the Artistic Development Programme with two scholarships in 2005. The Committee has not adopted any subsequent budgetary decisions, and I interpret the Committee in such a way that it is therefore required to redeploy posts from other institutions. I will therefore aim to redeploy a position from the University of Oslo and a post from NTNU in connection with the RNB. Secondly, in St. Prp. No 1 it is proposed to redeploy 20 study places from each of three institutions with poor capacity utilisation in engineering training. At the same time, there is an increase in the number of engineering places at the Stavanger High School, in the South Trøndelag and in Bergen. In the budget configuration, the Committee on the University of Gjøvik writes that it: ‘Considers that the Ministry initially defers such a move until further consideration has been made and presented in the revised budget’. The Committee does not write where the study places are to be taken from. I would like to assume that a reversal of this study position at the University of Gjøvik must be carried out in such a way that it is distributed across the three universities that have been allocated these places of study. While the Stortinget had Christmas ounce, a new international study was presented on Norwegian school, the so-called TIMSS study on science and mathematics. There might be reason to mention it before we break up, because it shows pretty dramatic results. It shows that in 2003, when this study was carried out in over 50 countries, and when many developing countries — not only the prosperous part of the world — were Norwegian students from half a year to one year below their 1995 level, although they have meanwhile gone more than one year to school. It's a pretty dramatic skill flaw this study shows. It's a development that needs to be reversed. We need to reverse a trend towards lack of knowledge. We have to stop a trend towards even greater inequalities in Norwegian school. It jumps in your eyes that there are two things in particular that need to be changed from L97 – I'm glad that there is now much support for this – it's that we need to have clear learning goals and professional requirements for the students, and that we need to be more committed to school skills. There is a great deal of emphasis on competence in Norwegian schools, which has been done before, but there is no continuing training that is relevant to the subjects in which you teach. It's sad to think that if we had had national samples back from 1995 onwards, this would have been revealed much earlier, and without having to get an international research report to come and tell us today. If we had had national tests, which were almost haphazard with here from the pulpit instead, we could reveal to individuals, to communities and to the nation how bad it was going – there is a catastrophic lack of skills in math and science – and we could take action to do something about it. I notice that the Workers' Party is clinging to the fact that they reduced a public body. Well, they didn't put down the Quality Committee, it didn't, it hadn't started the work, it had a narrower composition, an unclear mandate and long deadlines. All of this changed, and that's why we've got a national quality assessment system in place quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e238	Søren Fredrik Voie has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e241	The representative Reikvam tried again with a small basic course in a plan understanding. If he wants to participate and have an influence on the design of future vocational plans, which I hope he does, he must take inward what comes from the research environments, what the Council of State has just listed for us, that missing target formulations, partly unclear and diffuse goals, which make it almost possible to teach anything, in any subject, as the scientific plans have been formulated, is one of the greatest weaknesses we have had in school, and with which we now have to do something! After receiving all these studies, most recently the PISA study and what the Council of State refers to now, we are left with the impression that SV is trying to explain the results you get – because you don't like them! If SV is to continue to discuss only from its own point of view of reality and does not address the realities that are being documented over and over again, then it is reported out of the professional and content discussion in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e252	One might be tempted to start by saying that it's not going to be more correct if one never raises the voice so much when one is now discussing at the bottom of the debate. I want to reassure the government parties that an alternative of government consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will appear as coordinated and as comprehensive as today's conservative government, which clearly has the ability to think only once about education policy. What we're experiencing from this is a hoax over the commitment that both the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party have had to deal with some of the challenges of our school everyday life, which the government parties do not want to take seriously. It would have been enough to refer to the Petanque's post instead, to his reply to the representative Eriksen's post. I would like to say that this is not about the fact that for these parties there is some sore point, but it is simply incalculable, with too many untruths, on which the representative has to get an answer. I think the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV are going to take it all with a smile, because I think this is actually an expression that the Government's school policy is not a particular win in the population, as the latest polls in the newspapers show very clearly. I also want to ask a question at the bottom of this debate about the government parties: the Clemet School, yes, what is the Clemet School? What we have experienced all along is that the Council of State will not take responsibility for the school policy for which she herself has been responsible for three years! And there are limits for how long those who are in power, and who have had power now for nearly seven years, can rely on the Workers' Party! Politics is to want, politics is to rule. There's a part of the parties here in the Chamber that, at the bottom of this debate, have gone out in a way that I think makes it seem that there's reason to remember that it's not the Workers' Party that has been in power these past years, but completely, completely different parties. But it's probably an expression that it's getting closer to choices. Government parties are struggling with polls. We also see a situation where the cry from Kommune-Norway is not entirely consistent with what we experience here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e279	I just want to stress that initially today...
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e284	I'm sorry, the representative only has one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e287	Yeah, I got it. Well?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e292	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e295	One minute, that's good. I just want to say that initially in my main post today, I said that there are no easy solutions to the challenges that the school is facing. I would like to stress that there are actually no easy solutions, and that what we choose to do in the Storting today, next year and the year after, will only become visible in maybe ten years' time on the results of international studies. So I have registered that the right is more than satisfied with the resources in school today. So the right doesn't want to strengthen the school any more, they think it's okay with the teacher's density, enough with adults in school, etc. That's what we're recording. Right? That's what we're saying. We're also going to tell people that they don't want to strengthen the school locally with additional resources, because everything is certainly very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e304	Jan Olav Olsen has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e307	There seem to be more people who feel the urge to raise their voice and think that the arguments are getting stronger when the voice is high. Well, it's clear that we're taking responsibility for our school policy. The right takes responsibility for the school policy pursued. However, we cannot take responsibility for the policy that led to PISA 2003 and the results that emerged. Our school policy was established by decisions taken in connection with St.meld. No 30 for 2003–2004, which was thus adopted over one year after the PISA survey. There's got to be a chronology here. In fact, 2003 is before 2004. So for resources, it's clear that we want the school to have good resources, they're going to have a lot of resources. But we don't have to get caught up in it and believe that resources, a lot of resources, are the solution to the problems that the school is now proving to be facing. Here there are many other things that need to be done, and first of all we need to have a debate, we need to have a change in content, and we need to turn the school back into the good knowledge intermediary.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e316	For the sake of order, I would just like to assure the representative, Mr Bekkelem Orheim, that the Government is taking responsibility for everything it has done in school policy, and that everything it is now going to do, which has been adopted in this Chamber. In the spring of 2004, we summarized our school policy in St.meld. 30, Culture for learning. It contains well over a hundred proposals for changes that need to be made to strengthen knowledge, diversity and equivalency in Norwegian schools. It was approved for 99 pst.'s person here in the hall. This is now to be implemented, and we are responsible for that. I'm not a fan of pushing blame here or there, but I'm quite concerned that we have to try to learn from what we've done wrong, in order for us to be able to improve. The situation we're in Norwegian school now is not what the Skjälaa says, that we claim that everything is very well. But I think it is now more important to increase the competence of the teachers we have at school than to fill in with more teachers who may also lack competence. It's more important if I'm to give priority. That is why we have said that we should have a historical leverage of NOK 2-3 billion for those who are already working at school. But we have to innovate that of the students who are now in the tenth grade, who are students of Reform 97, or L97, it looks like there's a disturbingly large proportion, almost 20 pst, who leave school without being able to read and write properly. So today we're getting a report that indicates that the students have been strongly reduced in mathematics and science in relation to the state before Reform 97, or L97, even though they've gone one year more in school. We don't know. We've probably guessed that, because it's absolutely right that we now have a lot of knowledge about Norwegian school, and the situation description we gave in St.meld. No 30, culture for learning, is still standing. We already had the evaluation of Reform 97, but we didn't really have any knowledge of the learning outcomes. It's now coming from the outside. What has been done is a comparison with approx. 50 countries, of which many developing countries we would normally not compare to, because of course we have a high level of resource use compared to all, most of them. I find it alarming that, in part, it is being explained, that it is partially devalued, and that in part it is being pushed back that we do not take responsibility for this, because with respect to reporting: this is a study done in 2003, one year before we presented the report on our school reform, and so quickly it cannot, after all, work backwards. Before that, I'm not sure that polls show that we don't have support for our school policy. I see that in a poll that's now done, it's under 30 pst. which refers to more hours and more resources. 60 pst. are concerned with the requirements of students, the competence of teachers and the focus on nuclear subjects. The last three things strongly remind me of the government's school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e331	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1062]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e346	I take the word to include our suggestions in the vote. I have no desire to extend today's meeting. Actually, I had a lot to say about our suggestions, but I'm not going to do it. I'm just going to give praise to the Council of State for proposing a guarantee, so we moved on with the design of the Academy of Fine Arts. We could then say that the government parties could support our proposals to do something about some other construction projects. I'm sorry we're not supported, but I'm not going to make any more arguments. In doing so, I take up the proposals from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, which are in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e357	The representative Rolf Rikvam has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e360	I take up four proposals from the Progress Party, both those we are alone in, and those we have with other parties. I'm gonna be short, too. This is a balancing proposition. We've taken on some special relationships – with very modest amounts. We want to support one of the organisations that work for small schools, the Landslag for the elderly and a few schools, which has lost a substantial part of its allocation quite unusually in 2004, and put it back in place. We have a special moving relationship for a private school because of state construction and ownership activities related to the state as homeowner, and we have two building projects within the universities and colleges where the Stortinget has actually in two budgets been clear that they want to keep pace with the design, but it hasn't followed funds. We know that the University of Bergen of the Odontology Building and the University of Bergen for co-location has used their own resources as a kind of foreclosure, and we want to cover it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e369	The representative of Arne Sortevik has taken up the proposals he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1086]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e386	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1089]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e401	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1090]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e409	Then we are ready to vote on the matter no. 1 to 5 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e416	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 and 6, by Karita Bekkemelm Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 2, by Rolf Rikvam, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, by Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 4, by Karita Bekkekellem Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen Proposal No. 5, by Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 7, by Rolf Reikvam, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on proposal No. 8, from the Rune J. Skjellaa on behalf of the Center Party. Proposal No. 8 has been amended and distributed in the seats of the representatives. Rolf Rekvam – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e445	It concerns proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and the representative Simonsen, where we do not agree with them, to set up a chiropractor's training. In principle, we believe that it is a matter for the institutions to set up new studies, but since a proposal has been made, I would encourage my group to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e452	There is a vote on minority proposals outside the framework area first. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The President recalls that the proposal has been amended and can now be characterised as a framework independent. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Government of the Revised National Budget to come up with a case to give apprentices equal rights to cover the cost of clouding in their apprenticeships.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e467	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2005 to return to the Grand Duchy with a recalculation of the sub-compensation resulting from the hourly extension for the current school year, as well as a detailed review of the expenditure requirements for the school year 2005-2006 in the Municipal Economic Proposition for 2006’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e482	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote its own monitoring message on the same line of vision with St.meld. [[2003-2004]] No 14
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e497	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case on the competence and development of the school leisure system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e512	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the establishment of a chiropractor study in Norway.’ The Central Party has announced that they want to support this proposal, and as far as I understand it, the Socialist Left has now said that they also want to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e529	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to include all those who have completed a cand.mag. degree as basic education in the student loan cancellation scheme and to present a separate case to the Storting in the spring of 2005.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e544	It is then voted on the minority proposals for Framework Area 17. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e4106	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e11240	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party want to vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e11260	This is without prejudice to the framework area, and the President has understood it in such a way that the entire Committee agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e11274	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, the proposals No. 2-4, by Rolf Reikvam, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on proposals Nos. 5-7, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 5-7, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e11431	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2, 3 and 4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-12-13-2.ana.ud162e11576	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2004 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape Town Purpose:Crones224Joint actions in initial training70Contributions increased by 500000 from NOK 8 556 000 to NOK 9 056 000’»
