ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e53	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e63	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e66	On behalf of the representatives of Olav Aksensen, Odd Roger Enoxen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the law amending Law 30 August 1991 No. 71 on State enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e71	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e84	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e93	I would like to make a very brief presentation of the majority position of the committee. Document No The 8 proposal from SV, which we now have to deal with, deals with a transition from marriage law and partnership law to a gender-neutral marriage law, where gender neutrality is introduced as one of the premises of a new marriage law. A similar proposal by the Socialist Left was being examined in the context of the treatment of St.meld. No 29 for 2002-2003, S. No 53 for 2003-2004, where SV made the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to make proposals for legislative changes that legally equate marriage and partnership.’ The majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, perceive this proposal in principle as the content of the proposal that we are dealing with today, and that at that time, less than a year ago, was voted down and only got SV's votes. The majority, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, point out that the questions and issues related to the proposal for a gender-neutral marriage law and the repeal of the Partnership Act have not been discussed in several of the parties on the Stortinget. There is a sense that there are different opinions about these issues, not only between the parties represented on the Stortinget, but also within the different parties. The majority indicate that one is aware that these issues will be discussed at the spring national meetings, in the context of the treatment of new major elections. The majority, therefore, do not wish to put the proposal into practice now, and propose that the minutes be annexed. I expect the other parties to explain their comments and suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e117	The issue we are dealing with here has an extensive history. The struggle for recognition, respect and equality for homosexuals and lesbians has been long and for periods very hard. There has been a fight first for legalization, then for acceptance, openness, respect and after every legal protection, and then for a struggle for full equality. The Partnership Act was a breakthrough in this way. Finally, homosexuals and lesbians could, in the same way as heterophiles, have access to legal regulation, protection for each other, and the resulting rights. The time has come to take a new step. In the view of the Workers' Party, there is no longer any important argument against giving a full legal equality for homosexuals in relation to regulating their lives. Nevertheless, we have come to the conclusion that a change in the law requires some practical reviews. So we want an investigation to clarify, for example: the relationship with the partnerships already concluded and other legal aspects of the case. Such a change in the law will have some practical consequences, in particular relating to parental and adoption rights. It will have the practical consequence that a child was born into a gay marriage automatically – if it is not a third person who is a parent – will have both partners as parents. It's possible already today, through stebarn's adoption. But we've seen partners feel that it's difficult and time consuming to get the legal legal security for their child that all parents want. It will also have the effect of changing the adoption rules. In this way, it is important to stress that no one has any right to adopt, as is sometimes stated in debates. The question is whether homofiles should be automatically disqualified for access to the application for adoption of a child. We don't think it should. The paradox today is that a lonely homofil can actually adopt a child, but if there are two who are going to take care of the child, you don't get to adopt. Understand the one who can. We do not discuss whether children in Norway will grow up with gay parents. A lot of kids are already doing that. What we are discussing is whether these children should be given the same legal security and protection as other children in Norway. There are several ways to make these kind of changes to the law, and that's why we want an investigation. We have also understood that some parties want a little better time, a discussion in their parties and any conclusions at the national meeting. This was also the case at the time of the adoption of the Partnership Act. Some parties were involved in an investigation, while others were involved in the investigation. The Right Party and the Advance Party were bound to vote against. When the bill came, they were allowed to vote on an individual basis, and we got a scarce but important majority in this room. It's a very parallel process that's going on right now, and that's why we want to get such an investigation, where you, among other things, are going. assesses a common marriage law. But if the government thinks that other solutions are better, one can of course present an assessment and a review of it. I find it very difficult to understand that parties who are going to have this for treatment at their national meetings in the spring do not see the benefit of a review, a thorough discussion and an assessment of the different options. It is precisely the batches to have such a discussion that must be the batches most in need of such a legal review and the different alternatives – the advantages and disadvantages of them and the effects they will have. I have registered that right-wing representatives have been out supporting such a legal equality. I have recorded that the Young Right has been active on the track. I hope that with this debate today, we will be able to express the majority that I believe actually exists here in the Chamber, and that we can decide that we want the Government to present such an investigation after the national meetings have been held, so that we can adopt the legislative change that is the most mature time to implement. Finally, I take up the proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e143	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e146	This can soon be a reprise in relation to the debate we had just a few hours ago in Stortinget. Now the representative Geske was not present and took part in that debate, so I understand that he might here deepen his view of this something more than part of us will feel the need. I would just like to repeat briefly from that debate where I said that in the Progress Party there is a broad consensus that we are against the Partnership Act. Of course, it's hard to cancel, but we don't have to expand it or equate it with marriage as such. In fact, there is a difference between a gay couple and a heterophilic couple, and the Progress Party sees it as unproblematic that this is reflected in the legislation. At the same time, we ask to be taken seriously and believed that we have respect for those who live with a person of the same sex. We have a feeling that such a proposal as this is part of a salami tactic to achieve, among other things. the possibility of facilitating homosexuals. From our point of view, we have fixed the program that we are not trailers of. There's several reasons for that. First of all, there are heterophilic couples in line to adopt. So we don't need such a system in our systems. Secondly, most countries from which children are adopted refuse to send children to gay parents. And thirdly, we know too little about how growing up with two caregivers of the same sex will affect a child. Of course, everything looks fine after four to five years, but we don't know anything about the long-term effects, over 20 to 30 years. Of course, there are many gay people who are great caregivers, but we in the Progress Party believe that children have the best of growing up with a man and a woman as role models. Today, there are also many divorces, and in this context, the Progress Party is focused on ensuring that those who do not have the daily care, often the danger, have the right to get together with the child. We also have a principle in our programme – and we have promoted it here in Stortinget – that, as a general rule, we will have shared care when a couple split up. The reason for this is that we believe that children have a good time growing up with role models of different sexes – we think it’s good to grow up with. We respect the fact that several parties in this Chamber have not been given sufficient clarification to this question and have therefore agreed to attach this document to the Minutes. But for the Progress Party, the conclusion is quite clear, regardless of what other parties had to attend their respective national meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e159	I could like to use, as I said in my previous post, the whole article to respond to the representative from the Progress Party. I say as I said in the previous case: ‘This is about human rights and it is about discrimination.’ We are going to debate a very important proposal today, important both morally and legally, namely the introduction of gender-neutral marriage law. The debate shows that this is controversial and emotional for many. The majority in this room are confronted with their own prejudices and will say more or less directly or indirectly that a group of people in Norway, namely the homosexuals, still do not have the same human rights as the rest. The matter has to be investigated or national meetings have to deal with the issue in the spring of 2005. We in SV have a great deal of understanding that most parties need to discuss the introduction of gender-neutral marriage law. But why, then, does the proposal vote down? This proposal, as the previous proposal, could be postponed by the Committee and could not be dealt with until just after the national meetings. We can't even get together as a majority for an investigation into the introduction of a gender-neutral marriage law here today. It's sad. But I can promise that SV will not put away the proposal, even if we are voted down here today. The principle of non-discrimination is a fundamental principle of human rights. The maintenance of the Norwegian marriage law, which discriminates after sexual orientation, is a violation of the right to equal treatment. The starting point and principle for us must be that all people have the same rights. This is reflected in the 1966 United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of Articles 2, 17 and 26. The UN Committee on Human Rights has concluded that the Convention also includes the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. Both under Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam establishing the European Community and under Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, discrimination against sexual orientation shall be combated and prohibited. Gender-neutral marriage law is available in several places, including: in the Netherlands, Belgium and parts of Canada. Marriage is a way of strengthening the family's position in society, which this committee is very concerned about. We are also concerned about creating safe frameworks for children and adults. We in SV are happy that people who are happy with each other want to mark this through marriage. But when we talk about the gay family, it's obviously not as important to create similar security – even for the children of a gay family. Marriage is a good and secure framework for a good growth and for a good family life, says the Christian People's Party, yet the Christian People's Party refuses this security. I believe that it is completely irresponsible to close the many children who today grow up with gay parents, from the secure framework that marriage gives, and make them the subject of a gross discrimination and violation of the child convention. As legislators, we have a special responsibility to safeguard human rights and combat discrimination. There's a lot of wisdom in the words: you shouldn't tolerate so deeply the wrong that doesn't happen to yourself. I take up the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e190	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e193	: In examining the family message, the Socialist Left supported proposals for legal equality of marriage and partnership. This proposal only received SV's votes. The Christian People's Party perceives this proposal as, in principle, similar to the content of the proposal on gender-neutral marriage law. The question of so-called gender-neutral marriage law is such that I think all political parties should make a thorough assessment of it. After examination in the committee and the understanding used in the vote, the Christian People's Party will support the proposal to annex the document to the protocol. This means that the matter is not being dealt with and that there will be no further debate in this round – therefore just a very brief statement by my side. In view of the further process, which we then understand will come, I still allow myself to point to one of the main questions that affect the consideration of the children: What is for the benefit of the children? The answer to that question is not by sight and by claiming rights, but by in-depth research, and that there can be open value debate. The Christian People's Party was against the Partnership Act when it was up in Stortinget. The Christian People's Party then went in for another arrangement of gay life, namely to regulate it within the framework of the household community law. It is important that people who choose to live together experience that society has a law that regulates obligations and rights in relation. This is about adults' rights. However, the adoption law is primarily about safeguarding the rights of children. That's why the Christian People's Party is against the right of adoption for homosexuals. This is also supported by the UN Children's Convention, where we find clear definitions of children's rights to both mother and father.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e206	SV travels in Document No. The 8 proposal asks whether it is reasonable for us to maintain marriage as a legally exclusive heterosexual institution in the future. They want to change today's marriage law so that it is made gender-neutral, while making proposals to repeal the partnership law. I would like to make it clear that such a change in law will result in a number of other laws having to be amended. It can have consequences for children's lives, people's rights, biotechnology laws and adoption laws. It is well known to everyone in this room that this is a topic that creates debate and commitment among the people most, and it is also a well-known matter that there are shared views in many political parties in this area. The representative Hansen of SV owes the representatives to have prejudices and to act discriminatoryly in relation to homosexuals and lesbians, because we do not support SV's Document No. Eight proposals. I think SV should respect the fact that there is a party that wants to settle before taking a position on such a major change to existing legislation as this Document No. The 8's add up. I mean a number of laws that I think will have consequences if the proposal from SV is accepted, and for everything I know, there may also be several laws that need to be amended. As I said, this raises so many problems with ethics and law that we think it's natural that it's going to be distributed more closely, and we have a proposal that matches that. However, I would like to make it clear that the central party's proposal does not mean an advance on a conclusion. We want a debate, and we want to take part in that debate. But if we are to be able to do so, it is important that we get a comprehensive and good distribution material, so that we have a good basis for the further debate. So I'll bring up proposal No. Three, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e219	The representative Eli Sollied Upperaas has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e223	The Storting addresses earlier today the issue of the conclusion of partnerships in the community of trust and life, and Trine Skei Grande did there for Left's programme post where we want a common legal marriage in public, civil. This includes: the same intention as in the present proposal, a law that does not distinguish between heterophilic and gay couples. The left shares the proposalers' intention, but cannot vote for the present proposal, which we believe is too bad both in content and in process. It also leads to no result, rather the opposite. Of course, a party has the right to present what might be called a demonstration proposal, but it doesn't always seem to be a matter of being downplayed in Stortinget. As has also been said in the previously referred case of today’s mass, the Left has great respect for proper and thorough handling, not least in legal cases. Direct legislative proposals in Stortinget rarely meet such requirements. The two cases in question should also be considered in the context of the review, and it underlines further why the present legislative proposal should not be adopted. We also have respect for the fact that several parties need to clarify these questions internally, through the ongoing programming process. There is little sense in the fact that proposals that a large majority are not offered to support, but that they may be supported in a relatively short time. It is a matter of political craftsmanship to achieve actual results, rather than marking needs for own batches. As a government party, the Left is more concerned with results than with self-marking, and with procedures that meet the requirements of procedure, open debate, hearings, etc. on which our administration and our political system are based. We'll probably hear that we're voting against something we're in favour of, but we're going to stick to these principles, and so we're saying that we don't support bad political crafts that we don't think are the issues. As I said, we see this matter in conjunction with the things we previously handled in the Storting before today. In order to get a good process further, I would therefore invite the Labour Party to make its proposal for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e242	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e245	I had not thought that I would stand here and start this post by fully agreeing with the Christian People's Party representative in this debate. But the representative Lånker is absolutely right when he says that the answer to questions about the best interests of children is not found by sight. We find it in research, and we find it by asking the children who have actually grown up with lesbian and gay parents in Norway, for example. I must allow myself to arrest the representative Knudsen a little when he says that we do not know anything about the long-term effects. I know people as old as myself who have grown up with parents of the same sex. It is not that this is a new phenomenon, the only new one is that one dares to say it in the public debate. I wonder when Knudsen thinks we know the long-term effects well enough. Is it when the children who have grown up today with lesbian and gay parents have become grandparents that we know the long-term effects well enough? Can we wait for five generations? The way in which the representative Knudsen expresses himself gives the impression of a lack of knowledge of the facts of the case. The facts are that it is clear to anyone who wants to get involved in the research that actually exists in this area that care is not determined by sexual orientation. Then, of course, the different representatives, if they want to explain why they are in the position in which they are, can say that they have done a bad political craft when they have promoted what SV actually believes, and that they have a need for marking. People can say what they want. We are in the simple situation that to us this is a fundamental principle, we want there to be no discrimination based on sexual orientation, because there is no reason for it. There's no real basis for saying that whoever you love should decide what legal rights you have, or to say who you love, whether you're a good parent or not. This is incalculable discrimination, which it is high time we ended. If others want to help us with the legal work, we'll be happy to accept it. I wish this could not have been a marking case for SV, I wish others had promoted this many years ago, I wish it had been impossible for us to mark this as an SV case, because we were not alone. I am pleased that the Labour Party is clear that they support the intention behind our proposal. I'm glad that several parties say they want to discuss and think about. Yes, once again: Even from the representative of the Christian People's Party, there is a need for all parties to have a thorough assessment. If the Christian People's Party wants to enter into this debate and actually deal with the research available in this area: welcome. I don't need this to be an SV issue, because it's a natural human rights issue we're talking about. And I hope that soon it will also be a majority in this room to realize.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e256	To the representative of the Central Party, that's exactly what I said in my post: I have a great understanding of the need for investigations, and that the parties have to deal with this matter. What I criticized from this pulpit was that we can't get together on any of the investigation proposals that are here, from the Central Party and from the Workers' Party, because then we had this review. So to the representative of the Christian People's Party, who says that the children have the right to a mother and a father. A child has the right to two parents, and it's actually that many gay people have children. They've become pregnant with an unknown father, so many of these children have two parents of the same sex. What's in the Children's Convention is that a child has the right to two parents. Another thing is: I had a gay sister that I wanted to adopt my children if I died. There is no way to do that today. And we've actually said a lot about that in relation to the Child Protection Act, which we just had a discussion about. The family shall be assessed in different contexts. So this is only about discrimination because you are gay, and you have to stand for it. This concerns human rights and discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e263	I find it extremely difficult to understand the logic of the contributions of the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party. You talk about what's best for the children, and so you have to make sure that the legislation makes sure that the children have a father and a mother and grow up with a man and a woman. Now there is nothing that can prevent people from being gay, and as far as I have understood, the Christian People's Party does not intend to prohibit it by law either. Nor is there anything in the law that can prevent homosexuals from living together, and as far as I have understood, neither shall it be prohibited by law. Nor is it anything that can prevent homosexuals from living together, from having children, and as far as I understand, neither shall it be prohibited by law. Thus, in the practical situation, people are going to grow up in Norway with gay parents, regardless of whether the Christian People's Party likes it or not, and you don't intend to ban it either. The question then arises: is it intended to give children the same legal protection and protection and security and security as other children? That is the practical question of the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party, not whether children should grow up with gay parents or not, because there is no way to regulate that. Well, you have it so far, but it will require police methods that I assume the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have not intended to introduce into Norway. And we don't get an answer, we don't get an answer to that with the logic, it should have been interesting to hear. It's also about partnership; you think it's okay that people are gay, you think it's okay that gay people live together, but you don't think it's okay to live in a commitment, lasting life. I think that is an interesting position on the part of the Christian People's Party. So to the point of transmission: Well, normally it is that if the Council of State announces that she intends to do what the Stortinget asks for, then it is turned into a transmission proposal. I have no faith in that the Council of State has thought. I don't understand the Left, and I don't understand those in the Right and possibly in the Advance Party who really support this, but who are now being crushed by the Christian People's Party. Because that's what happens, of course, this is the price of being in government with the Christian People's Party. And it's okay that sometimes you have to pay a price to sit in government cooperation, whether it's agricultural support or cash support or other things. But when it comes to fundamental human rights issues, I think you should put your foot down and say that here it is, for the Left, for example, a limit that is being violated. You're not willing to do that. We now hear that the Christian People's Party in various debates says that they have no plans to repeal the Partnership Act, and I believe that. Nor are there any plans to reintroduce the ban on female priests, and certainly not to abstain from women's voting rights, which was also a fight once in a while. You look back and say that it was good as it turned out. I am absolutely convinced that in ten years' time, when one discusses this, one will say that one has no plans to change the marriage law – it was good that the Workers' Party and SV got an impact on what they fought for in the main hall in November 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e272	I've recently gone through modern Norwegian gay history, and I think we might be in the vicinity of a little step towards writing a new one today, because all of these steps are taken by someone who first recorded it, as Arne Kielland did in 1971, when he in an interview in the Stortinget asked if it was not time to lift the ban on homophilis in the penal code. The following year the ban was lifted, against the votes of the Christian People's Party. Then we had the discussion about whether gays and lesbians should be covered by protection against discrimination. It started with a proposal that didn't immediately get a majority. So it went a little bit of time, it got a majority, against the votes of the Christian People's Party. So the job started with the partnership law. It was first recorded in a Document No. Eight proposals in 1989. It was not sent to a new government until the old one, where the Right was married to the Christian People's Party, had resigned – the Syse government. Then a new government came back again with the proposal of a partnership law, which, in parallel to the marriage law, had all the rights in place, except for what has been the theme today: the right to church marriage and the right to be considered adoption parents. All the steps towards more equivalency between heterophiles and homofiles have been taken by a few steps forward, and the majority have come after. And that's what I think we're doing today, too. What is in agreement with the debate, I have to say is the following: that it is the law for bigots representatives to smack around with so-called adopted truths about what is best for children, contrary to all knowledge and all the knowledge we have about this. Those who claim from this pulpit that it is proved that it is the best of a child in any context with one mother and one father, they are wrong. Children who grow up with gay parents live perfectly happy lives. We know two things about those that might be a little bit different than for other kids. We know that they're a little bit more tolerant than other kids. And if there's anything the world needs, it might be a little bit more tolerance. That's now at least our opinion. So we know that they can have a problem with intolerance from other children and from adults. Then there's one thing Stortinget and big-time representatives have to do, and that's to be involved in fighting intolerance. And if you're going to start by fighting intolerance, you start by saying what are the facts: it's that children can live perfectly happy with gay parents. No adult has the right to have children. But whatever sexual orientation one should have the right to be considered a parent, because caring has nothing to do with sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e281	If I heard correctly, suggested the previous speaker that she wanted to limit the freedom of expression from the Storting pulpit. I hope it's a misunderstanding, but I would like it confirmed for the sake of order. The majority have just dealt with freedom of expression in general in Norway, and it is a bit surprising if someone wants to make special rules on limiting freedom of expression right from this speaker. It happens that big words can be useful in political change. The rather violent words that especially Kristin Halvorsen and Trond Giske have swung up to, I think are very little useful. As I said in the debate in the big meeting earlier today on another Document No. In general, 8 proposals are not a good sign when a proposal triggers so many debates at once, some of which may have a necessary link with the content of the proposal, some may have a possible link with the content of the proposal, and some have no connection whatsoever with the proposal under consideration. This suggests that the basis for a broad political change of words is very poor. And when you look at so many proposals that are almost similar in a committee position, it's also a sign that it's not a particularly constructive communication that's been triggered by the proposal put on the table. It is also a little original, I have to say, to read that proposers find that the existing marriage law is gender neutral, and therefore it is necessary to make a proposal to make it gender neutral. It might also be a little work accident, but at least the logic is not transparent, to say it carefully. One problem is that, as the representative Geske pointed out in his first, sobering speech, if this proposal is adopted here and now, it will create a legal vacuum, namely what will happen to those who have entered into partnerships under the existing Partnership Act. What legal status would they have if the Storing abolished the law today? Fortunately, legislation with retroactive effect is not practised in Norway. But there's a whole series of other legal problems that I just have to ask that the parties that work seriously further on this have in mind. These include: the relationship to the legislative change The Storting itself has made a very short time ago, which states that anonymous fatherhood in Norway is in principle prohibited, given that a child has the right to know as far as possible the identity of both his biological parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e292	The President would point out that characterising the posts of other representatives, whether or not they are now characterised as sober or not, should in fact be left aside by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e295	It can't be wrong to be sober, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e302	You'll have to be private.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e305	I want to challenge the Labour Party and Trond Giske a little more, because in this case it is actually the Labour Party and the Left that support the intention of the proposal, but we do not support the bill as it stands. The Labour Party's proposal for a settlement does not get multiples, nor would it have been given if the Left had signalled support for it. So it's actually going to be downgraded. As I said in my article, we see this matter in conjunction with the issues we discussed earlier. Of course, we are going as a government party to work for our government to look at this. But it's a little difficult when you have a proposal in the Storting about a settlement and it's going to be downgraded. That's why I challenge the Workers' Party and encourage them to turn this into a transmission proposal, so that we can work together to ensure that we get through this matter and secure the necessary solutions for the difficult questions. So I'll again challenge the representative Geske to evaluate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e313	I support Mr Sjøli's position on the process both here in the Chamber and in the individual party towards the national meetings. I think a process is neat compared to getting a clear position on a question that is difficult for many. Personally, I am in favour of a changed marriage law and that everyone should have the opportunity to be assessed as possible carers through adoption. There are actually many in the Right that are. However, as we have a party democracy, I respect the fact that there should be some internal rounds in our party, at our national meeting and in the programme committee, which may allow us to support these kinds of proposals on a later occasion. The right has not dealt with the issue in substance. I think there's a reason to say that. The right has not dealt with this matter, as the rapporteur said. So we should have a thorough debate on this in connection with our national meeting process. Along the way, I just want to ask a few questions from the point of view of reality – because you don't need research reports to ask a few questions based on reality. If you take an example with a child who has grown up with foster parents for several years, I have a lot of problems in seeing that it is consideration for the child who suggests that the same persons who have been foster parents and real caregivers for several years should not be able to be assessed as real caregivers further through adoption. I don't need research results to see that. Another issue concerns role models. It is not that gay and lesbian live in a kind of vacuum, live all alone and have no relatives and family of the other sex that are real role models. You don't live in four rooms, lock the door and don't let the kids hit anyone else. Finally, it is also true that more people are gay, but they are not sterile. The kids are there today. This is the question of whether you should not think about the kind of practical examples from reality, no matter what conclusion you draw. This is a kind of question which, at least for my own part, I intend to ask internally in party democracy on the path of the democratic process we are going to have in the Right. I also hope that there is a type of question that will be answered in a good way. But a process makes sense in those parties that have not concluded, and I refer again to that case-rapporteur on behalf of the Committee and also on behalf of the Right has said here in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e337	In the SV, we respect the fact that different parties may need to discuss the matter, get involved in the facts and conclude that, if necessary, they are free to put their representatives on a case. In these kinds of questions, there has been tradition for that in Stortinget. What I must say amazement is the need for individual representatives to argue formalistically and not to go to the heart of the matter: are we there soon to ignore sexual orientation in order to assess a person's ability to care? I have to say that the representative's salary was the best example of hiding behind formalism instead of going to the heart of the matter. The representative of the payroll knows very well that my or SV's wish is not to restrict freedom of expression. No, stupidity can't be banned, prejudices can't be banned. It is clear that anyone who wants to spread homophobia tomorrow, dinner and evening, is free to do so, but we who know better, must use the chance to fight it. I could imagine asking the representative's salary what his view of the matter is. Is it the case that homosexuals should be excluded from being considered as caregivers because they are gay? Or have we come there soon — after the ban on homophilis was lifted, under the Partnership Act, after Norway has obtained a gay finance minister who lives in partnership and who probably has no lower care capacity than that, for example. I have – that it should be possible to look at a person’s characteristics and not sexual orientation initially? I would like the representative to say something about that. Depending on how the Right discusses this at its national meeting, the Right's participation in government with the Christian People's Party may be what may limit new progress in this field. Because that's what happened last time. The Partnership Act was exposed, the possibility of obtaining a majority for it was exposed because the Right was in government with the Christian People's Party. When you were finally released from that marriage – let's use that word today – it was free for the Right to assess the matter on its own value basis. Then it is interesting to know what the representative's personal conviction in the matter is. The most enjoyable post ever held on the issue of homofile rights was held by former staging president Jo Benkow of the Laging House on 1 April 1993, when the Laging House adopted the Partnership Act with one vote of weight. It meant a release for a terrible number of adults. Now, Inge Wohnung can contribute to the liberation of a terrible number of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e352	At first I would allow myself to praise the representative for the reward, in order to express such a ill-thought-out confusion from the Storting's pulpit as he made in his post, I must admit that I had no torture. But to clarify what he says, he says that he is confused that the proposal says that both marriage law is gender neutral, and that there is a need for a change in law. It is such that there is both a legal text and a preprocessor, which together determine how a law should be understood. It is probably also well known to the representative. The situation today is such that the legal text itself is gender neutral, while it is clear from the pre-workers that the law is to be understood in such a way that marriage is an exclusive heterophilic institution. Thus, the Storting must in some way provide a new pre-worker or a new basis for interpretation, if the Storting wants the law to be understood differently. The law today is gender-neutral, but I don't think anyone is in any doubt that today's marriage law is just as full to understand as a law intended for marriage between a man and a woman, not between a woman and a woman. Then I have a small question for the representative Vihovde in relation to her wish that the Workers' Party should make its proposal for a transfer proposal and ask for an investigation. It is not such to understand that the Storting refrains from instructing the Government to conduct an investigation, preventing the government from fighting for the government to do so on an independent basis. At least I haven't understood it this way. What we're voting on here is whether the Storting should instruct a government and a government council that shows no willingness to investigate the question of a gender-neutral marriage law, to do it – neither more nor less. I also note that the representative for pay thinks it is problematic with proposals that raise as much debate as our proposal has done. On the contrary, I would argue that it is a problem if such a fundamental human rights issue as the question of whether people should be discriminated against after sexual orientation, does not raise a big debate in the public debate. It's a problem if there's something that can be overlooked in silence. I'd be surprised if there hadn't been a big debate around our proposal, if it hadn't been so many people needed to think about. The only thing that, in my view, could justify the fact that there was not a large debate on a proposal on non-discrimination, had been said that of course we should treat people the same. Finally, I will allow myself to wish the representatives Dahl and Sjøli good luck with the national meeting. I don't think this will be the last round on this question in this room. I look forward to the day we really get one step further, and hope it stays with Right Help.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e365	For information to the representatives, the President will only draw attention to the fact that, with regard to the recommendation on transmission proposals, both proposals No. 1 and 3 are sent to Stortinget, so any transmission must be made to Stortinget. The representative of May Hansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e370	The representative on the pay side is concerned about the bad dialogue we have in our committee. He was also in Stortingen in the matter of almost the same topic. The dialogue we've had in the committee is actually quite important, and it's going to lead to something in the future. I am convinced that this proposal will be adopted in a very short time. It is important to put this issue on the agenda. The representative also stated that we have adopted this with a known sperm donor, and we do. Here we have so far supported the Right. But it's not until 18 years that you're told who your biological father is. As a known sperm donor, you are not a legal father, nor do you have parental responsibility. This is to give many children living in a family relationship with gay couples, the rights that all other children in this country have. Caring ability does not depend on sexual orientation. There are actually several studies showing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e379	I allow myself to point out first that I think confusion and stupidity are more serious than a state of euphoria – just for it to be recorded. Kristin Halvorsen wanted to enter into a real debate on some issues that – in my opinion – are neither necessary nor possibly related to the proposal SV has promoted and are the subject of debate in this Chamber. This debate, both the very general debate on what discrimination and human rights are, and the more limited debate on, for example. adoption rules, have no necessary or automatic relationship with an amendment to the marriage law. What I have pointed out is that if you want a clear political debate in Stortinget – if that’s what you’re really looking for – and if you also want a broad and serious debate on concepts such as ‘discrimination and human rights’, this is definitely not the way to do it. It is not a proposal for a gender-neutral marriage law that is the natural starting point and the natural content of such a debate. It must be seen that if we want to take a general and abstract principle of non-discrimination into account here, we will have a whole series of problems in prison. You get, for example, the problem with which Stortinget is well known as legislator: Why do we discriminate against spouses? If you now thought that SV had a connection to this, it would probably apply to cohabitants of the same sex as cohabitants of different sexes. I think you might have to think about several times whether it is particularly appropriate to start with such an abstract and generally non-discrimination principle, because if you are going to pursue it in all areas of legislation, you will get a job for very many years to come. It is not certain that such an abstract non-discrimination principle will ever come to an end. because there is a whole range of conditions in this world which cannot be changed by parliamentary majority decisions, either in the Grand Duchy or in any other national parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e390	The representative Kristin Halvorsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e393	This is a very small abstract proposal, and it is not intended as an employment measure for the representative of Inge Wohnung. It is meant to be a very precise change in the law in relation to one point that now impedes equality between homosexuals and lesbians and heterophiles, namely the individual right of marriage and, for all practical reasons, two exceptions that the partnership law has made in relation to marriage law, otherwise they are completely parallel. One is about church marriage, and the other is about the right to be considered adoption parents. I am not going to succeed in getting Inge Wohnung to say what he really thinks in the matter of adoption, but he is totally wrong when he is finding that this is not the way to win the homo fight. On the contrary, this is how you have moved stones in the fight for equal treatment and equality between gay and lesbian and heterophilic – by first promoting a proposal, and then the majority will follow. That is what we are doing today: we are promoting a proposal that is controversial. The debate is going to go right. It is not far away that this last remaining unworthy discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation is eliminated – I feel sure of that – without Inge Wohnung.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e400	Trond Giske has also had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e403	In my view, this has been an excellent opportunity to express exactly what you think about the legal situation for children who grow up with gay parents, and who do not have the security that other children have, and what to do with it. We note that the current President of the Right does not, in the same way as a former President of the Right, use this opportunity to strike a blow for increased equality and anti-discrimination. I understand the objections that it creates legal complications, but that is precisely why the Workers' Party has made a proposal to investigate this. If you want to prepare this in a neat and proper way, there is no better device than using the government apparatus to get such an investigation, and so you can vote for it. I understand that someone has problems with our proposal because it is believed that it determines the direction in which this should go. I would like to call on the Left and, where appropriate, others, from the Right – we should also take it with us before the vote on these various proposals – to vote in favour of the proposal of the Centre Party, which is seen as a neutral investigation proposal. It is better to adopt it than not to adopt anything. It should also think both right and left through.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e417	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e421	For the sake of order, I'm going to confirm that Kristin Halvorsen is right in his work hypothesis. I'm not going to be convinced by loudly voiced proclamations without thinking in the back. Let me also make it clear, since the representative, Giske, now wants to lead anaesthetic over right-wing prime ministers, that the paradox is that the only legal content of document No. The 8-proposal that has been put forward is a proposal to repeal the very law that you boast about in the clouds, and that you praise Jo Benkow for. The only legal content of this proposal is to repeal it, as it is said, entirely in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e428	Siri Hall Arnøy has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e431	A misunderstanding will not be more correct if it is repeated, nor if one avoids listening to explanations and clarifications. So it's true that today's marriage law, despite the fact that the text is gender neutral, according to the law worker, is clear to understand as a law of marriage exclusive between a man and a woman, not between two men or between two women. The fact that the representative does not agree that the Storting amends the terms and conditions governing the interpretation of the law, and also has a legal function, is a matter for him. But the fact is that there is a very real proposal for a clear change to the Norwegian law we are going to decide on today. We decide whether marriage should be for everyone or only for heterophiles. It is a fact that the representative may choose to deal with or not, but it is that the processors are part of how the law is to be understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e436	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Then we have come to case No. 2 on the agenda. [[Footage, see page 76]] The case under consideration has not been within the regulatory period, i.e.: 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Odelstinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal, and it is then deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e457	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the rapporteur, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e466	The matter under consideration is formally referred to as the Law of 13 June 1997 No. 53 on supervision of acquisitions in the day-to-day press and broadcasting, in our daily work referred to as the Media Ownership Act. The purpose of this law is to promote freedom of expression, real expression and a comprehensive media offer by preventing excessive concentration of ownership in the media. On 19 March of this year, the Government presented St.meld. No 26 for 2003-2004, in which it enters into force in order to legislate on the so-called infrastructure requirement, i.e.: a requirement for the State to actively contribute to the actual ability of individuals and groups to express themselves. This implies that the State has an obligation to facilitate channels and institutions and for an open and informed conversation. Such a duty is linked to the main arguments for freedom of expression; the argument of truth, the argument of democracy, and the argument of autonomy. For the treatment of St.meld. 57 for 2000-2001 the Stortinget agreed with the Government's main media policy objectives, to ensure freedom of expression as a precondition for a living democracy. The Ministry further refers to Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which imposes an obligation on the administrative powers to ensure the diversity of opinion and pluralism in the media in the interests of precisely freedom of expression and democracy. By referring to these decisions and ideas, it would be natural to conclude that it is a public responsibility to ensure that the concentration of ownership in the media is protected to the extent that such concentration could threaten media pluralism and freedom of expression. Then we'll see that if most of us agree with this, we don't necessarily agree with the consequences of this in the transformation into practical politics. In the preparatory work, the Ministry, through several hearing bodies, has asked for specific views on a number of issues, such as: e. g. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t whether a rule on multi-media concentration at regional level should apply to the television market on the basis of which the regional classification under the Media Ownership Act on the basis of the provision of regional classification under regulation should lie with the King or the NRC supervisory body should be included in the radio and television market at national level if a separate rule should be laid down for ownership in several media markets if the law should be extended to include electronic media With different connections from different parties, I can well conclude that the government has obtained a majority for most of its proposals in the proposition. The Progress Party was at an early stage of the process and announced that they would support all the proposals that progressed towards liberalisation. On the other hand, it is no big surprise that the proposals that can be seen as a wish for market regulation have been supported by the other opposition parties, SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. There are different perceptions both in the media companies themselves and among the parties about the importance of ownership control in order to protect freedom of expression and diversity. In this context, it is pointed out that Norwegian media owners are professional owners and that there is a safe and institutionalised distance between the exercise of ownership and the editorial work. I believe it is fully possible to share these views and at the same time point out that ownership plays a direct and central role by the fact that it is the boards of individual companies that employ the editor. If one is concerned about looking beyond Norway’s borders, a quick example is that the dominance of individuals in private media ownership creates problems and stands in stark contrast to our desire for diversity and pluralism in terms of both ownership and opinions. The situation in Norway is marked by a kind of balance with three large newspaper houses, Schibsted, Orkla and the A press, all of which have evolved into media businesses, including other media, such as the United Kingdom. television, radio and Internet portals are an increasingly important part of business. In addition, of course, we have NRK with its dominant role in both radio and TV, and also – against SV’s votes – soon distributor together with TV 2 as the owner of the digital network. You should probably also include Telenor as an increasingly important player and owner in the market. The proposal relates to three levels of regulation: local, regional and national. As I see it, it's been good to make assessments of the national level. I'll come back to that later. In my view, it has been more problematic to consider both proposals and consequences in terms of local and regional levels, because these levels are not defined or clarified in the proposition. Even I think it is very problematic to adopt percentage limits for regulation for a size that is unknown to us. Of course, the consequences of this percentage are impossible to predict, because you can't do any kind of calculations for how this will turn out. I realize, very surprised, that SV is alone to see this as a problem. Even I think it is an advantage that we, as elected representatives, have the opportunity to assess the impact of the decisions we are making. However, when we choose to vote in favour of the proposals made by the Government on local and regional levels, it is in recognition that we do not have other parties with us in our assessments, and that the ministry on direct questions about these sizes will not give an answer. Therefore, SV proposes that the Government return to the Stortinget within two years with a visualisation of media developments for all media at local and regional level. A bit of the same issue I think applies to regulation of the local level. All except the SV and the Workers' Party do not consider that they need clarification of the local level, because no proposed ownership restrictions have been proposed at this level. Even I think it is problematic to dismiss regulation opportunities, precisely because the local level is not defined. What about local level e.g. defined as State? In several counties, e.g. in my home country, Buskerud, we now see the contours of a dominant media company that is growing more and more – not only in the newspaper, but also in TV, radio and Internet portals. It's starting to get the contours of a monopoly. The same trend we see in many other places, and even I wonder if this is a development we actually want, whether this is a development that is suitable to meet our idealistic objectives of freedom of expression and diversity. To the regional level, which is also not a defined size in the proposition, nor has it been defined on direct questions to the Ministry: to date, regulations at this level have been built on a discretionary intervention centre, and in this sense, the possibility of exercising discretion has not made it necessary to define the size of a region more precisely. With the decisions that are now being taken, there will be a 60 pst limit of ownership. of the regional daily press service. The setting reads as follows: ‘A second majority, all except the members of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, therefore consider that the best solution is to empower the King to lay down detailed rules in this area.’ However, when we then accept such a solution with our vote today, it is a recognition that this is the only solution in today's situation to establish a regional ownership limit, which we want. SV is just saying that, by setting a percentage, we should have the opportunity to see the consequences of such a determination, that is, by concretely defining what kind of area a region is in this context. Furthermore, when calculating the percentages of the daily press market in what may be defined as a region, it is assumed that the majority supports the approach of the department. This means that national newspapers should not be included in the calculation basis. Some hearing bodies also believe that television/radio and viewer and listener numbers should be used as a basis for regional regulation. Personally, I share such a wish, but accept the Government's reason that it does so per. at present there are no safe or good enough figures to make such calculations. Therefore, in order to be able to make assessments of this later, SV suggests that Stortinget asks the Government to return to Stortinget with its own case on ownership limitation at regional level. Then to the national level. The government has an intention of at least three independent private media houses in Norway, in the interests of competition, and the proposed regulations must be seen in the light of this. Today, the limit of ownership in individual media goes at 1/3. The government suggests that this be raised to 40 pst. It is a clear liberalisation and therefore receives, as announced, support from the Progress Party. SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party want to keep the current limit of 1/3. We can't see that a raise to 40 pst. can be explained on the grounds of having three independent media houses, diversity or freedom of expression. On the contrary, the only explanation I can see is just to comply with the giant Schibsted's desire to get even bigger. That the Right Party and the Advance Party think this is okay, does not surprise me, but that this is good Christian People's Party policy, I have more difficulty understanding. But they themselves have the opportunity to justify this later today. We are therefore promoting joint proposals with the Centre Party and the Workers' Party on national restrictions of ownership in the daily press, television and radio. It could be nice if someone from the Christian People's Party took a new assessment of these proposals. Furthermore, a legal limit on cross-ownership between large companies has been proposed to 10 pst. It also has our support. With this I promote SV's proposals and the SV's proposals are included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e544	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e547	What we are discussing today are legal texts and paragraphs, but it's really about big things. It is a regulatory framework, a framework for making our democracy work as best as possible. It is about facilitating freedom of expression, a variety of opinions, an opportunity to speak and an opportunity for people to obtain information through many independent and different sources with different opinions and priorities. Such diversity is a fundamental foundation for a functioning opinion and a good democratic society. One important factor in such regulation is the diversity of ownership. It is discussed whether ownership has any significance for diversity, and whether diversity in ownership is a prerequisite for diversity of opinions. Can't the editor's freedom, the editor's legal right to decide for himself what to press, be a sure enough anchor to ensure that we get the diversity we want. But in reality, there is a clear connection between an owner, a board and an editor. In a fundamental conflict between the editor and the owner of a media body, the owner will always win. Therefore, it is important and right to regulate ownership in such a way that we provide diversity, and that not a single or a few actors are in control of most channels of information and exchange in a society. The vast majority of countries with which we can compare have such regulation. Countries that we often see as more liberal than our own, for example. The United States, even has a stricter regulation of this kind of question than what we even raise today. At the same time, it is important that the law facilitates good business practice. We are a small country, we are a small language area, and it is not possible everywhere in the country to have such diversity as we would prefer. In many places, there simply don't live enough people, or there's not enough business to get the amount of advertising required to get such an enterprise to go around. Even with important and large aid schemes from the State, where the VAT exemption is the greatest and which, moreover, is increasing now after VAT increases, and production aid, which unfortunately stands still, but which is also an important scheme, is not always so that you can have more newspapers in a small place. Therefore, the law needs to strike a balance between diversity and good business practice. The Labour Party, with its bill, seems to have found a fairly good balance between the two considerations. We agree that ownership regulation should be lifted at the local level. We agree that sensible arrangements are being found at a regional level, stating that it must be greater than the counties to look at other areas. We also agree that these are divisions that the government has to do, it would be inappropriate if the Storting should go in and detail that kind of thing. We are also pleased that we now have a regulation of multimedia ownership. There is a connection between owning newspapers, TV and radio and conveying their news production through different channels, and the consideration of diversity that we want. In many places, maybe the radio is the alternative to the one newspaper you have. At the same time, we believe that it is also important for some media houses to be able to communicate their news production through different channels, and once again, a balance is important. Where we have not reached the same conclusion as the government parties, how much of the total market one operator can control at national level. An increase in the limit from 33 to 40 pst. we don't think we're going the right way. We also think it's breaking with the logic that the proposition otherwise comes with, because you're very emphasizing that you want a tripartite principle. Then there must also be an opportunity for the three actors to have the same growth potential and come to the same level. Now, what you're actually doing is you're saying one actor can get up to 40 pst. Then it's very difficult to imagine that the other two are going to be the same size, because it's going to be 120 pst. And unfortunately, that's not the size of the media market in Norway. The logical consequence of a tripartite principle would have been to keep 33 pst. And I suspect that the proposition is just written out of that logic, but that compromises and negotiations internally between parties that might want 33 pst., and others who might want 49 pst., have made one point out of the rest of the logic. That's a shame, because that's what would have been the logical result. I also think that there is a certain logic in relation to the fact that the other two actors should not be able to buy shares in each other's group, because as I read the law, it cannot prevent buying parts of the group in the form of some newspapers, and I am therefore somewhat uncertain about how this will in practice turn turn out. I also underline what we say in the position that cooperation agreements are not covered by the law. If cooperation agreements are clearly designed to circumvent acquisition situations, they will, of course, be governed by the law, but otherwise cooperation agreements on editorial substances must be the editor’s responsibility and thus not be governed by ownership law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e566	Freedom of expression and democracy are fundamental concerns in our society. The opportunities we have as citizens to express our opinions are the prerequisites for the functioning of our democracy. So democracy depends on the availability of public conversation venues. It could be newspapers, it could be magazines, radio, TV or the Internet -- in short, the whole field we call media. The media area has been in strong conversion over the past 40 years, and is after the new technological age became a fact, within a raging development, where new channels of communication are still seeing the light of day. What does it mean, for example? not the mobile phone that carries information today? The right's view of legislation and regulation in the media field is rooted in a long historical tradition that tells of the dynamic role of the free media in the development of Western democracies as we know them today. The real independence of the press, or media, in relation to the state or other public authorities affects one of the most central points of our democracy. For the Right, therefore, there is an inevitable requirement that there must always be a strict distinction between the rulers, that is. the state and the free media. Today's threat picture against the living public debate in our country is probably not censorship and actually suppression of the editorials, as we know from totalitarian regimes. In our society, it is probably the economic and legal conditions that can create addiction and unlucky loyalties between state, political parties and the media. Regulatory regulation, for example in relation to ownership, and economic instruments, such as press support, are therefore conditions Right will be particularly sensitive to. The right starting point is that the media should ideally be able to develop freely without specific legislation targeting them, and in practice this means within the general rules of the competition law. When the Right nevertheless supports by this crossroads the Government's proposal for a new ownership law for the media, it's because we're not blind either because too much ownership concentration would be unfortunate for the media diversity that we want. Previous investigations, such as the suspension of the freedom of expression Commission, and the assessments also made in the proposition, show that it is unclear how today’s competition law will actually operate in relation to developments in media ownership in our country. With the frames now set, there'll still be good room for growth. This would also imply that Norwegian ownership would be affected by market conditions of interest to competition authorities. It will be of great interest to see how the competition law and the ownership law will actually work in relation to each other. In the coming years, the right will closely monitor developments both in this and in the practice of the ownership law in isolation. In particular, we will monitor developments in the regions. In the view of the Right, the emergence of regional media houses with local sustainability for development is also an important contribution to the media diversity in the future. Complicated regulatory arrangements do not always turn out as intended, and there is no reason here to conceal that the Right could have wished for greater liberalisation in regulation than what the Government has fallen down on. Right-wing wants an economically viable media industry, and believes this is an important prerequisite for diversity and freedom of expression. We want to underline the freedom of the media and the sovereignty of the editors in relation to their content. The right would therefore like to have the editor's poster legalised, and would support this when such a case is promoted for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e587	It is a paradox for me that the majority of this will believe that competition law can regulate competition in all sectors, except the media. When the Stortinge in our treated competition law, all parties agreed that this was an excellent instrument to regulate and provide for competition. Even anti-competitive lot No. 1, SV, said positive things about the competition law and its influences in the comments and the articles that were kept about the law. A unanimous odelsting also included consumer consideration in the law as one of the main purposes of the law when we dealt with the competition law. It is therefore the case that the Competition Act should also be able to take account of consumer concerns – in all sectors, except the media, also in this field. What is so special about the media industry that the Competition Act can be applied in any other context than this industry? I have a hard time seeing it. It is possible that there are few and dominant owners. That's at least what's been informed from the pulpit here today. This is also the case in many other sectors: in the technology and telecommunications sector, where Telenor has a dominant position, in the book industry, where a few publishers dominate the industry altogether. That's how I can stand and list up industry by industry. The Progress Party believes that we should deal with the rules we have in the Competition Act, tightening them if necessary. In order to ensure editorial freedom, we can legislate the editor's poster. But beyond that, we should stay away from a detailed management of the media market. In the Sem Declaration we also perceive that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left gave their support to these principles. It is said that there will be maximum freedom of establishment in the media and that the monitoring of competition in the media sector should be left to the Competition Authority. In this case, the government parties actually go the opposite way, by adding up to an extension of the law. In fact, you liberalize some of the thresholds, and that's of course good. As we will see from our remarks, the view of the Progress Party can be clarified in three points: 1st@item: inlistbox We want to remove the ownership law and supervision.2. We want to use the Competition Act as an instrument in this field.3. We want to ensure editorial freedom through the law enforcement of the editor's poster. As is also evident both from the previous statements and from the position on this matter, the main proposal of the Progress Party in this area will fall, and we will then be in favour of the most liberal views expressed in the vote, which is in line with the Government's view. With this, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e616	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e619	Of course, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government's proposals for changes to the Media Ownership Act have been endorsed on all points. It is also positive to record the relatively broad understanding it is also outside the Storting both in order to have a law regulating media ownership and for the proposed amendments submitted. Given the discussion expressed in the previous consultation round, it appears that the Government has landed safely. Some have argued that strict regulation of media in a small country such as Norway should not be necessary at all, with a limited market. Both of us are of little interest to large foreign investors, and the media companies we have here have largely noble intentions and do not want from the owner to override either direction or content in the media. There's probably a lot of truth in this. Therefore, the ownership law is not designed to automatically follow an intervention by the authorities as soon as a light flashes. No, this is meant as a leading law, where a lot of discretion is to be exercised before there can be an active play from the supervision. On the other hand, I think it makes sense to put up some staff blocks in the law also in this area that could be a reminder for all actors and help to avoid unfortunate developments. The aim, as pointed out by several speakers, is, of course, to ensure the greatest possible diversity at national, regional and local level. We who believe in democracy as a form of government also have an obligation to ensure that people around the country are brought up. This consideration was strongly underlined in the constitutional debate earlier in the autumn. There is a close link between democracy, freedom of expression and media pluralism. Of course, the debate on ownership in the media is strongly influenced by the fact that the media live in a commercial reality. This greatly contributes to the difficult balance of public policies in this area between different considerations — on the one hand, the importance of maintaining diversity on the part of owners, on the other hand, the economic sustainability of individual media companies. This balance appears to be most difficult with the starting point at the regional and local levels of the media market. In many communities, population density is so low that it is not even a basis for a local, and not even a so-called two-new. However, thanks to VAT exemptions and production support, it has been possible to operate very many local newspapers and a number of two newspapers in districts where otherwise it would not be possible. It merely shows the importance of public policy in this context. A relationship that, despite this, characterizes the small Norwegian media world is that it is very centralized and centralized. A major part of the private media is owned by three large national media companies and is managed from the capital. One feature of this picture is that there are some relatively strong, independent media companies in some regions. These are based on the major regional newspapers and are managed from the regional capitals. These media enterprises — especially newspapers — are important public opinion providers and spokespersons in matters of regional and local interest. I think it's important to think it's corrective also these organs make up, not only in questions about the relationship between the center and the periphery, but also in other issues. I do not see any reason to go further into various individual issues in the bill. They're thoroughly dealt with both in the proposition and in the setting, and our view is expressed there. Nevertheless, with reference to what I just underlined, I would like to point out a relationship that I think the department is wise to look at, namely, where owner concentration includes several levels. This can be done by a national media company purchasing and ensuring full control in e.g.: one or more regional media establishments already in a dominant position in their region. These, of course, also have interests in local media. The questionable aspects of ownership concentration will be reinforced by the combination of regional and national dominance. Now it has proved difficult to imagine the grip that can take account of this issue in the law, but I think it's a relationship that should be worked on further. In terms of media diversity and societal premiscibility, strong regional media companies, as well as national groups, are served. However, it is essential that they remain independent and independent from national actors. It is to hope that this too will be given weight in the practice of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e647	The central party supports the Government's proposal to lift the hive to counter owner concentration at local level. We recognize that the local owner concentration can be large in many places. Nevertheless, we agree that there must be a decisive emphasis on the fact that the local public and advertising markets do not provide the basis for a large market of independent operators. The central party also supports the Government’s proposal to maintain regulation at regional level and that the discretionary intervention shelter is replaced by statutory regional ownership restrictions. The availability of services will be lower in regional markets than at national level, and this applies to both the public and the advertising sector. It is important, in the view of the Centre, to balance the concerns of media failures and economic conditions. There's a lot of confusion about what's going to be considered a region. The centre party supports the department that the breakdown must be based on the media use, as the actual media usage will rarely follow the county boundaries. The centre party wants to keep the owner's restriction at the national level of 33 pst. The proposal from the Government to establish a 40 pst limit. of the daily press, television and radio market, we regard it as a liberalisation of ownership restrictions, and we therefore oppose the Government's proposal. We further support the Government's proposal to continue today's rule of cross ownership between large companies in the daily press market and take this into law and extend it to the broadcasting market. The central party will underline the principle of media autonomy in relation to the authorities. We therefore support the Government's proposal that an independent and independent review should be the Board of Appeal. We support the setting with the exception of ownership restrictions at national level. We are opposed to all minority proposals with the exception of proposal No. 1 to which we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e665	The attitude of the Committee and the debate in Odelstinget today is very happy, I think. Despite strong counterclaims in the matter, the Committee has supported the Government's proposal to amend the Media Ownership Act. In my opinion, this is one thing that says for the values that are promised to protect, namely freedom of expression, the real ability to express themselves and a comprehensive media offer. The background to the legislative proposal is the mainstreaming of the media communication in 2002. The majority of the population asked the Ministry to come back with an assessment of various questions, including: the abolition of ownership regulation at local and regional level and the extension of the laws applicable to electronic media, vertical integration and cooperation agreements. The hearing note, which was sent out on a hearing in January of this year, aimed at finding a solution that could guarantee freedom of expression and democracy, and at the same time did not intervene too strongly in the economic activities of the individual media actors. The proposals have focused on engaged debate, especially in the large media companies. I'm not surprised that some of the suggestions have been controversial. This is a regulation that, in a specific case, can have a major impact on businesses that become the framework. Several hearing bodies have commented that the ministry has not documented the negative consequences of ownership concentration. This is so right. Ownership law is a leading law to protect against ownership positions that facilitate abuse. It is crucial that a very dominant ownership position in the media market provides a potential impact on opinion, which, if exploited, can undermine the democratic decision-making processes that we have in society. Several of the hearing bodies also considered that the Ministry in the submitted stressed the importance of media diversity and stressed the importance of the financial framework for media industries. The Ministry has carefully assessed the hearings and, on a few points, has agreed with the criticism: Firstly, the Ministry has abandoned the proposal to regulate multimedia concentration at regional level. The main reason for this is the weak economy in the local broadcasting sector. Secondly, the ministry also agrees with those of the hearing authorities who thought that the provision of multimedia regulation at national level was too strict. In the proposition, the limit of control in three media markets is therefore slightly higher than in the hearing note. I am pleased with the work that has been done, and I am satisfied with what the Stortingen now has to handle. And I thank the Storting because it has supported the suggestions that we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e688	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e691	There are several reasons for this law to take care of. Freedom of expression is one, business is another. One of the principles here is that one actor should not be able to grow too big. We agree on that. However, an important principle in this type of regulation must be equality between the different actors. It cannot be that one should be able to grow larger than the others and have a greater potential than the others. The Council of State lays down two principles. One is that you have to have a limit on how many people can be, the other is that you want three actors. But then you say that the biggest player likes to grow up to 40 pst, which will automatically make the other two not as big as the first one. I simply find that unfair. I do not believe that it is in line with the sense of justice in relation to the fact that private, commercial and, to the extent that non-profit actors can also have the same opportunities to compete and grow large. I would like an explanation of the logic of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e698	There is at this one point the Government and the Workers' Party separate layers when it applies to this setting, and I understand it. I just want to remind the representative that former state councillor Ellen Horn was thinking about 49 pst. Here. The government has proposed 40 pst. Now, once again, we have three dominant media houses in Norway. We already know today that there's a difference in the size of them. We've taken the starting point of what's the pattern today, and we think it's going to be the pattern as well. There's one media house larger than the other two, but we're looking at the possibility of all three growing. If we had seen a percentage of 33, as it's been thought about, one of the media houses wouldn't have been able to grow, while the other two had it. And that's not good either, because it might lead to that we don't get a lack in any of the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e703	The amazing thing is that here one media house is given the opportunity to grow just at the expense of the other two. What I miss in the setting and in the argument is a real reason for 40 pst. The importance of economic sustainability has been stressed in the past, as was Loan. But are we concerned about the sustainability of Schibsted, Orkla and the A press? Is there anything about sustainability that requires raising the ownership limit to 40 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e708	We've assessed it so that we want both the Orkla, the A-press and Schibsted to be able to be actors further. We're not putting any obstacles in order for anyone to grow larger than others, but we're saying that a size of 40 pst. is a thank you. Then the other two who have the money to buy up can do it. There's no obstacle to it. It doesn't seem to be the big father. We believe that to have a deficiency, not only in central strokes, but also in regions, it's important that we release something more than 33 pst, as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e713	It's perfectly legitimate to change your mind. It's okay that the Christian People's Party now believes that 40 pst is right, while in the past it was thought that 33 pst was right. But it should be possible to ask for a logical reasoning behind the conclusion. They say that the reason why you want to raise the percentage now is because otherwise it wouldn't be fair, because not everyone has an opportunity to grow. That day a media house sticks on the roof of 40 p.m., you get exactly the same problem, so it becomes the logic of any regulation. Then you have to go before the solution of the Progress Party and say that the Competition Act or other things can regulate it. That can't be an argument. When you stick on the roof, you stick on the roof, no matter where you are on the scale. Then reference is made to proposals on 49 pst. – Well, then the principle of three actors had not been confirmed. That's what's the key here, you say you're going to have three actors and 40 pst. That's what's not related. Then you say that you want greater diversity locally. I can't see that there'll be greater diversity locally by a group, for example. buys up all regional newspapers – Address paper, Bergen’s Official Journal, etc. I wonder if the Council of State intends to follow up on what Mr Lånke brought up, and look at the relationship between national and regional ownership. In that case, it has the full support of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e720	When we want to raise the ownership limit at national level to 40 pst, it's because we want to give all three possibilities today, just like that. If we had kept 33 pst, one of these would have gone up in a roof very quickly and could no longer be an actor. This could mean that one of our parts of the country -- I'm not talking about local level, I'm talking about regional level -- didn't get a shortage of the newspapers that would be available in that region. I thought it was quite important to stress that the government says we should have three media houses. I didn't know that the Labour Party had been in the idea of going in so that one should only have two here in the country. At least there would be no lack in the media image.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e725	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e730	I do not want to let go of regulation at regional level. We accept the proposal that exists, but at the same time we have a proposal that there should be an evaluation in two years' time. The setting states that only the daily press edition is to be calculated in terms of the figures, while radio, television and Internet activities are not to be taken into account on the basis, on the basis that there is no profitability in this respect. It's important that people should be able to buy up, just to strengthen these channels. A little bit on the way, it's all about accepting such a way of thinking. With regard to the rationale for regulation, it is not the profitability we are concerned about, it is the diversity of opinion and the development of regional monopolies. We want an assessment to be made as soon as possible as to whether radio, television and electronic media should also be included in that calculation basis, so that we do not receive a regional media house that controls all channels, and that in this way we also acquire a monopoly of advertising, which makes it absolutely impossible to establish competition. It should worry more than us in SV that in regions with 200 000–300000 people it is actually not possible to establish competing activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18-lower.ana.ud2560e737	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The scheduled time for the morning meeting is now at hand. [[Footing, see page 76]] The evening meeting will be held at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
