ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e48	A number of permit applications are available: from the Christian People's Party on sick leave for the representative of Anita Apelthun Sæle from 18 November onwards and until further notice from the representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes on leave from 22 November to 24 November and from the representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad and Ivar Østberg on leave from 23 November to 24 November – all to attend meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Brussels from the representative of André Kåkkeststad on leave from 23 November to 26 November in order to represent the Refugee Committee of the Council of Europe in the meeting of the European Refugee Committee in Strasbourg. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Inger Lise Aarrestad, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli and Harald Espelund For Hordaland County: Pål Kårbø For Rogaland County: Elin Schanche For Troms County: Ruth Stenersen3. Ruth Stenersen is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets for Ivar Østberg
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e109	Pål Kårbø is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e115	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Øyvind Halleraker. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e130	The history of this matter is rather special, because the Storting did something as rare as adopting an instruction to the National Audit Office to conduct further investigations on behalf of Stortinget. I will not use much of the speaking time to discuss whether this was a correct decision in its time or not, even though it was probably viewed correctly in the light of the rather complex nature of this matter. I note that we have received a report for treatment, but at the same time use the opportunity to refer to our previous treatment of the position of the Frøiland Committee, where the Storting stressed the importance of the independence of the Riksrevision, and that it must be a prerequisite that the Riksrevision can function independently of changing political constellations. In this, there is a precautionary standard, as I see it, although the Stortinget also stated in the handling of the Frøiland Committee that the Stortinget can give general instructions on how the Riksrevision will conduct its business, and that it must be clear that the Stortinget in plenary can instruct the Riksrevision to undertake a mission. As I see it, the Stortinget will not use this possibility of instruction in the future in time and in the future, but I stress once again that this has not necessarily been the case in this case. The background to the Storting decision to instruct the National Audit Office to go closer to the Ministry of Transport was an enquiry by the former Managing Director of BaneTele AS, Trygve Tamburstien, who requested the Supervisory and Constituent Committee to carry out a review of the Ministry of Transport's work on the financing of BaneTele AS and the GSM-R case. On the other hand, the Storting order became significantly wider and included the Ministry of Transport's proceedings on the State loan to BaneTele AS, on the basis of the decisions and assumptions made by the Storting at the time of establishment of the company and taking into account the general interests of the State, as well as the extent to which the organisational model chosen for the management of BaneTele AS, the link with the Railway Agency, etc., opened up unfortunate decision-making processes in BaneTele AS and at the cross-point between the company and its owner. The conclusions of the Committee have also become significantly wider than those of Trygve Tamburstuen, inter alia. having regard to the fact that, in preparing the matter, the Committee held an open hearing. The theme of this consultation was the facts presented in the Riksaudition report and in other evidence on the matter, including for illustration an internal audit report on some internal issues of BaneTele's board and administration, such as dealing with sustainability rules, law on public acquisitions, governance procedures, etc. The starting point for the whole Committee, although there is a somewhat different wording between a majority and a minority, but the material starting point seems to be somewhat similar, is that at the time of the establishment of BaneTele AS it was necessary to separate BaneTele AS in order to use the surplus fibre optics of the network commercially, while at the same time the purely railway safety needs should prevail in the event of a possible conflict between these considerations. In open consultation with the Committee, these issues were particularly highlighted both by former Minister of Transport Terje Moe Gustavsen and the current Council of State for Skogsholm. Everyone remembers the Asta accident and how bad it could have gone on Lillestrøm in its time. Of course, it was in the panneum in the department throughout the investigation period. We've been told that. The majority here in the Chamber is also of the opinion that the transformation was necessary because the former organisational model opened up unfortunate bonds and role conflicts. At the same time, an organisational model that must be said to have been only an intermediate stage on the road in order to do something about this, not least in the light of what we now see in the Riksrevision report, that the organisational model chosen was demanding, complex and also made the roles of the different actors unclear. As the Committee sees it, the problems that arose in BaneTele are an example of the consequences of an unfortunate mix of management and business. BaneTele’s problems arose as a result of a purely commercial purchase that lacked adequate funding. BaneTele made itself dependent on future decisions in government and magnification. In the opinion of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the Ministry of Transport in the process has taken care of the state’s interest both as owner and as lender, although it can be discussed whether the ministry could have acted more quickly both in relation to the clarification of the conversion of the government loan and in relation to the legal clarifications that may be obtained. However, the Committee notes that the Riksrevision leaves the answer to the question whether this has actually had an impact on operational problems to be kept open. Central actors in BaneTele AS’ governance and administration, respectively, had broad political and administrative experience, but the majority of the Committee does not necessarily see this manifesting itself too positively and clearly during the period under consideration. As regards dialogue between the Department and BaneTele, the popular conclusion must be that dialogue is difficult. But that the department's various letters to BaneTele should be particularly suitable for misinterpretation, not least on the basis of this broad experience of the players in BaneTele, the majority of the committee is considered unlikely. It is okay to work to achieve the desired result, namely to connect the government loan with any future GSM-R development. It's an honest thing. But the feeling that someone in the process was almost in the middle of the fight and the effort to get right to the end despite the department's signals is not as good. The majority of the Committee considers that it should be visible to the stakeholders that BaneTele AS, in terms of GSM-R development, was only mentioned as a hypothetical tool in the context of any expansion, but therefore nothing more likely than anything else, and the intended decision both in government and magnification, i.e. significant political processes without rapid detours. In this context, it is worth noting that the railway manager agreed in an open consultation that no commitment had been received from the Ministry that BaneTele would carry out GSM-R development at the time when the Railway Agency made the direct allocation to BaneTele AS. Similarly, it does not seem immediately reliable that, for example, the purchase of Enitel, which was the direct cause of the operational problems in BaneTele, was not formally used as a justification to the Ministry in the ongoing process of the State loan repayment terms until 22 May 2002. It has to be said that there are a number of aspects of the internal governance of BaneTele during the investigation period that give cause for concern. The majority of the Committee agrees that the internal review report on certain dispositions made by the former Executive Director of BaneTele does not deal with the same specific issues as the Riksaudition report. However, we are of the opinion that this gives an indication and may be illustrative as compared to the fact that the BaneTele AS administration in this period had significant challenges related to acting in a reliable manner both internally and not least externally to, for example, the law of public acquisitions, sustainability rules, employment agreements, reporting procedures, etc. In sum, the majority of the Committee considers it necessary to question the economic and political reality of the board and the administration at this stage. Now the rapporteur will also show some political reality and end here. I'm also referring to the comments of the committee majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e158	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e161	One shall not be surprised that right-wing representatives promote Right-wing policy and have a commercial approach to a number of Community values. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre believe that effective state ownership is an important tool to safeguard the interests of the community. Public ownership ensures important policy objectives in district policy, culture and health. In addition, state ownership ensures that the community has the right to have natural resources and that we receive income for the development of welfare schemes that benefit us all. The results of the policy choices over the last few years have weakened the possibility of good governance of Community values. My challenge to the representative Dahl is: Can he explain what obvious social benefits he sees by further privatising Community values, including BaneTele?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e168	I find that the line was prepared in advance, and I thought it was this report we were going to have for treatment today. I refer to what has been a point for the Government and for the Right all the time in dealing with this report that we are dealing with today, that security needs should always take precedence. It has had it throughout this process, and it will still have in the further work on the BaneTele organisation. I think the government can sign that afterwards. There's going to be a limit. While safety concerns may not necessarily be affected by the choice of other organisational models, they require good oversight of service providers. So I can't see that there should be any particular problem compared to the organisational model that you, for example. had been converted to a BaneTele AS before the internal business unit had been converted into a BaneTele AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e175	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e178	Let me first join the rapporteur's point of view on the possibility of the Stortinge to instruct the Riksrevision. As the rapporteur said, there is something that must occur extremely, extremely rarely and only when there are particular reasons to do so, and I believe that the Storting is very much in agreement with it. Let me first say that when we go into this matter, it is necessary to take into account the circumstances that the Riksrevision has examined and reported on. First of all, it is the case of the Ministry of Transport's State Loans case in BaneTele AS in relation to the Storting's assumptions and decisions when the company was set up. Secondly, the organisational model chosen was suitable for creating the basis for unfortunate decision-making processes in BaneTele AS and in the relationship between the company and its owner. The starting point of the National Audit Office has therefore been the management of this by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The reason for the proposal to convert the railway works’ business of BaneTele into a limited liability company was a reasonable wish to exploit in a commercial way the available capacity of the railway works’ leading routes and fibre cable networks. There was considerable consensus in the Storting about this. We did not immediately see it as reasonable that the Railway Agency's operations were engaged in commercial telecommunications activities. The Right Party and the Advance Party wanted to go further, as these two parties considered it appropriate to sell the company to the open market as a whole, but they stood alone on this view. The other lots stressed in a joint note that the railway works had to be owned by themselves, not least for railway and safety reasons, and that these considerations had to prevail over purely commercial or, if one wishes, commercial considerations, if these two considerations conflicted with one another. I think that was a very reasonable clarification. In the setting we are currently examining, SV and the Workers' Party stand alone for a comment where we just underline the importance of active state ownership as an instrument to ensure important societal considerations. But role-sharing, authority anchoring, organisation and structure must ensure that there are no unfortunate mix-ups of interests when creating such companies as this and where the state stands as owner. It is important that the rules are clear, that they are understood by the actors and that they are followed, so that there is no legitimate or unjustified suspicion of the distribution or prioritisation of interests and considerations other than those set out to safeguard them. In this case, the National Audit Office pointed out that formal distinctions between the Railway Agency's administrative tasks and the company's business operations had been clearer. Here the Riksrevision saw the need for a clearer delineation of these two relationships. There are three aspects of this matter which have dealt with the Committee in particular, logically enough. It's the expansion and operator responsibility of GSM-R, it's BaneTele's acquisition of Enitel's broadband business, and it's the conversion of the government loan. It is obvious that the Ministry of Transport’s decision in October 2002 to transfer the GSM-R concession from BaneTele AS to the Railway Agency for the subsequent implementation of a tendering procedure has a solid anchor in the Stortinget’s assumptions when BaneTele was established. As a result, the previous decision of the Railway Agency – which was probably in November 2001 – on the direct award to BaneTele AS was not in line with Stortinget’s assumption and, according to the National Audit Office, probably also contrary to the tender law. However, the Ministry was now familiar with the Railway Agency’s decision in December 2001 and was previously informed, in June 2001, that the Railway Agency saw such a direct allocation to BaneTele as a current solution. We find no indication that the ministry has at an early stage expressed concerns about this direct allocation. As well as the railway system as BaneTele seems to have had reason to believe that this solution was in order, and that they planned out from this. In my opinion, the Ministry's entirely correct decision could have been made in the past. Now it is such that it did not have any economic consequences for BaneTele that this decision came as late as it did. The purchase of Enitel’s broadband business by BaneTele is currently difficult to have critical comments on. This led, among other things, to: until we got two major players into this market. It creates competition, and it was some of the thinking behind it when BaneTele was established, and later confirmed the wisdom of this purchase. However, the financial side of the purchase has given us some experience. BaneTele makes a loan takeover in the financial market of 200 million. NOK 100 million. out of own resources. It seems to us that at that time BaneTele AS had to assume that the government loan of $209 million. kr should not be paid within the prescribed period. It seems that the department's signals at this point could have been clearer, but we can see that the department's various letters contain reservations and give premises that both the board and the administration in BaneTele should have gone inward for all reason. Whether it was the case that the company found the department's signals less clear than it would wish when it came to the conversion of the government loan, the board had an autonomous obligation to obtain the necessary clarification and could not go out on financial galleys in the form of guesses or poorly-thought-out assumptions. This matter has taught us a lot about the importance of clear lines, the need for quick decisions and clear communication in order to avoid misinterpretations and unnecessary problems when we throw ourselves into forming these types of companies, and where the state stands as owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e201	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e204	One of the first things I read in a book on company law was that the choice of organisational model leads to a choice of realities. In relation to the question of legal investigations: at what time and in what way does the representative of the Engebretsen believe that the Ministry, according to the type of organisation chosen, should have intervened? In a note on page 6 of the setting, the Workers' Party and SV stress that active ownership can be a useful tool to ensure important societal interests. Can the representative give some examples of areas where this is not necessarily useful?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e216	We believe that active state ownership is necessary in areas where the community needs it. It is, of course, some of the reasons given by the state to meet the needs of its citizens in different ways. We see that the community through its administrations has a completely different opportunity to control the Community tasks we have in society than when it is entrusted to private actors. That's our basic vision. When would the department have intervened? I do not know if I have really had any claim or say anything about when the department was going to intervene. What I have said is that in certain areas, the ministry could have been better off with its clarifications. This concerns the conversion of the loan. One could have been faster and clearer, but I say at the same time that here it is quite obvious that the board itself has had considerable responsibility to understand what was said.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e223	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e227	I would first like to agree with the rapporteur's assessments of the situations in which the Storting should be able to ask the National Audit Office to carry out an administrative audit like this, but at the same time say that we also see the BaneTele case as an example of a successful one. The Riksrevision's findings in this case are that the establishment of BaneTele AS may not have been fully in line with the Storting's decisions and assumptions. In general, the audit reveals that the Ministry of Transport, the Railway Agency and the management of BaneTele AS have not sufficiently managed to manage the activities of BaneTele according to the Stortinge intentions. I would like to highlight in particular the one-year grant of the state establishment loan, the purchase of broadband from the bankruptcy residence in Enitel and parts of the business side of it and the uncertainties surrounding the concession for the expansion and operation of GSM-R. The National Audit Office's report on BaneTele AS gives a good illustration that commercial business in a newly started state limited liability company is mixed with government in a way that everyone can see is unfortunate. The cross-border rise between business and management has been too poor in the establishment of BaneTele AS. This is most serious with regard to the part of the audit relating to GSM-R, because it revealed the ‘rooted’ here involves the communication and monitoring network of the railway. I believe that state ownership is particularly important for companies that own extensive and important infrastructure. This must also apply to BaneTele AS. In this respect, I would like to refer to the assumptions SV included in the Innst. S. No 274 for 2000-2001, when Stortinget unanimously supported the establishment of BaneTele as a separate company. I would like to emphasise that we in SV saw it as «fundamental with a public ownership, under political direction, to the infrastructure of the Railway Agency». We showed, among other things: to the situation in the United Kingdom, where it was seen that ‘there had to be a new infrastructure for communication because it was previously privatised’. SV also said in the setting that ‘The reason why this infrastructure was built is not to be a traditional telecommunication operator in the market but for train running and that the motivation for the business activity is surplus capacity. Losing control of communication equipment is a high-risk decision.’» I'm glad BaneTele continued to be in public ownership. The many unexplained relationships between the Ministry of Transport, the Railway Agency and BaneTele show that it was not chosen to sell to private stakeholders, as it was in its time desired by certain parties in this room, that was reasonable. We should learn from the BaneTele case, so that we don't make the same mistakes again for the future. First of all, I think this and similar issues reveal that the gap between commercial operations and the management of public activities can be very difficult. It may be problematic for public agencies and their employees to fully understand how private business actually works. On the other hand, it may be problematic for private traders to understand how the public administration works when working together. This cultural collision has to be included to try to understand why some went wrong when setting up BaneTele AS. However, when representatives from the Railway Agency were represented on the Board of BaneTele AS, one would believe that some of the communication problems could have been avoided more easily. I believe that, with the report of the National Audit Office, we have learned for the future that state enterprises to be transformed into their own legal entities must undergo a thorough process. All parties involved should be aware that such a process would take a long time to achieve a successful outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e254	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 431]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e271	I want to introductoryly ask the council four questions: Does it agree that ferries are the road to many communities, and that it requires increased efforts by the state? Does she think that 45,000 passenger car units in one connection in nine months are acceptable, or will it apply immediate measures? Does she mean that 1 hour and 20 minutes is acceptable time between the departures of such a busy connection as the Tau connection? What does it do to secure a backup ferry, so that no traffickers are charged hours in a waiting time when something unexpected happens? There is a lot of work going on in many countries to ensure a better ferry service. One of the latest initiatives is Fosen Regional Council's focus on Fleck-Rørvik. I'm assuming that the hall will follow with other examples. I choose to take my own country as my starting point. In Rogaland, there is a strong commitment to mainland connectivity. The Central Party is aware that local decisions in this area should be followed quickly from the Government and the Storing side. But we're also concerned that the ferry supply in the meantime, e.g. before Ryfast and Rogfast shall be so good that they shall not, as at present, impose both local business, commuters and other fixed immaterial additional costs and maximum unnecessary and tiring waiting time. The ministry has taken against delegations made up of people who don't shout wolves in vain. Speakers from Ryfylke have requested a third fern in the Tau connection. There's an emergency call of 6-7 million. kr to ensure that Fiskå Mølle, Marine Harvest and other companies that depend on getting their products quickly know that there is a ferry going on and that there is room for their cars. It is about strengthening a link where traffic is increasing, and where traffic is now being rejected. The number of remaining cars is 3.1 pst. so far this year. In the Tau–Stavanger connection there is still up to 1 hour and 20 minutes between individual departures. Then we'll talk about the country's second largest commuting. The state councils have taken note of letters from the County Spokesman from the Right and from the NHO Rogaland who are asking for the same. They also ask for better flow in the Mortavika-Arsvågen tribal road link until the gas journeys are in place. Both business and local populist meetings understand the ministry. But that's also all they've achieved so far. The government has a spectacularly low focus on the ferry situation in the future transport plan. Increase in the loop of 1.4 pst. is in reality a decline. The focus on downgrading and thus lower manning and reduced capacity is disturbing in many communities. In the wake of the management of the forthcoming transport plan, the Central Party took the initiative to provide the Stortinget with access to its standards for ferries. It gives cause for further anxiety. The RV compound is divided into ten classes, two for tribal roads and eight for national roads. There are some major deviations between the targets set and the current frequencies. 22 out of 75 so-called other national road network deviations on frequency. If we look at the standards that are now set for opening time, it actually looks as if the department has a long-term objective that the opening time in a long range of connections should be reduced. Three ferry connections in Rogaland, between the Tau connections, are on that list. Is that really so? It means in case the government has the long-term goal of reducing the opening time of 21 connections. It's such a total lack of understanding for coastal people's situation that I have to ask the Council of State for clarification. The ferries are the road for many inhabitants along our coast. In the same way as it's a state responsibility to build a free route, the Center Party believes it's a state responsibility to operate for free ferries. We realize that it's a long-term goal. At the same time, it's an important and correct objective. The travelers are paying most of the tickets themselves today. State aid for the purchase of national road ferry services is surprisingly low. The 2005 government proposal is $1166 million. kr. The center party wants 100 million. kr more to the next year and a double of the total supplement during the next scheduled period. We are pleased that there are several parties in the Storting that are some with us in it. We have great faith that gas ferries represent an innovation in terms of both the environment and capacity, and are content to grant concessions. We are very surprised, however, that the Government left to the concession holders to decide whether the ferries should be built in Norway. The government also had a unique opportunity here to secure the development of skills and technology and to secure Norwegian subcontractors very valuable assignments. It is good that the government is busy getting the most out of the money when it comes to ferry operations. The center party agrees. But we're very dissenting in the premise of the Government as the basis for its work. The consequences of a raw outsourcing can be measured in other fields. We are surprised that the Government now reports in the budget that they will step up sharply just as the principle of outsourcing. Missing local knowledge of ferry companies and crews, insecurity and uninhabitability of both companies and members – not all before these two fields can be measured in money, but it is very important to consider when laying down the future ferry structure. Now, the Government itself is the leading provider of premises in order to ensure that companies with expertise and local knowledge do not have the necessary room for action for long-term thought, for example. when ordering new ferries. Last night, a strange message came out at NRK Sogn and Fjordane. The Road Directorate is now cutting the offer in the Mannheller-Fodnes connection. There were eight offers submitted on the initiative of the Directorate. Surprise and confusion are the reactions. The foundation of the directorate is that the offer was too cheap! This must be an example of an alarming, unstable and insecure attitude. There is a need for a strong and careful strengthening of ferry services in this country. I hope today's debate will show that there is a greater will in the Storting for this than the backward signals coming from the Government. It is true that in social debates there are usually many themes to be covered in a relatively few minutes. We from the Central Party felt it was important to give room for a debate on the situation of coastal states, a debate on the situation of coastal people, on business and on the settlement there. It is such that the same question of business organisations always comes up as priority no. 1 in relation to regional policy. I hope that the Council of State today will be given a clear signal of the need, not for a backward attitude, but for an active involvement in strengthening the important area of ferry services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e311	There has been a large increase in the grant for national road ferries in recent years. It can be mentioned that while government expenditure on the purchase of ferry services was about 640 million. In 1998, a budget of DKR 1,166 billion is proposed for this purpose in the 2005 State budget. Much of this increase is due to increased safety requirements for maritime administrations and investment in 20 new ferries. As many transport tasks are known to have to be covered within the State economic framework, the need for the efficiency of the ferry sector will be high. I agree that in many ferries there is a need to strengthen the holiday offer. I am also aware of the problems that arise from the breakdown of operations, especially when the spare ferry is not to be recovered. The scarcity of materials has a background, among other things: in strict government governance over many years. This governance will be released as the ferry operations become exposed to competition. It will then be for companies to acquire appropriate material and ensure that operational safety is in accordance with the requirements imposed by the authorities. However, we have to assume that it will take a few years before you can expect to achieve the great and truly noticeable improvements in the holiday offer. Procurement is an important tool for increasing efficiency. For all national road ferry services that are being tendered, one within the budgetary framework will seek to meet the new long-term objectives set out in the national transport plan 2006-2015. This applies, inter alia, to targets for: frequency, opening time and refurbishment. The state road service aims at full competitive deployment of the ferry business by 2009. However, the timing of the tendering process will be assessed in the light of the experience gained. In particular, the potential for efficiency improvement is assumed to be related to the manning of ferries. I therefore expect shipping companies to use efficient ferries, such as will be able to operate with reduced manning when traffic is low. We have good experience with the ferry connection that is already under tender. In particular, I would like to refer to the outsourcing of the Halhjem-Sandvikvåg and Mortavika-Arsvåg connections, where it is provided for the use of natural gas as an energy carrier. It is here to get better capacity and speed than today without increasing the level of subsidies. I would also like to point out that the deployment of gas ferries in the links will release ferries, which could represent a possible improvement elsewhere along the coast. The date of concession renewal in the two relationships is 1 January 2007. The representative of Melting Party Kleppa addresses the issue of downclassification of the national road ferry service. No national road ferry service has been downgraded in recent years. However, it can be mentioned that the Geiranger-Hellesylt national road link in More and Romesdal has been exempted from national legislation. The connection is operated on a commercial basis. The connection is important in the travel life of the area and is kept open only during the summer season. The Ministry is concerned that we should also have such types of solutions, and we have proposed that the Hjellestad-Klockarvik National Roadferry Association in Hordaland should be closed down. The connection has a low traffic base and re-routing capability. The question of the downgrading of the national road ferry link is currently pending. This will be seen in the context of the question of classification of the road network. The government will return to Stortinget with a review of the classification of the road network. I would like to stress that this government is very concerned that no matter where you live in this country, you should have good offers. The national road ferries and this national road ferry network are an important part of our service. It will also be for the future. That is why I am concerned that we should be able to get the best possible offer. I am not satisfied when you have to stay in important road links for many hours. None of us are satisfied with the situations that arise when we lack extras to insert. I think we agree on that. Our goal must be that as we get new ferries, we also see the possibility to install extra ferries if necessary. This will be kept under constant review in the Road Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e330	I thank you for your answer. But I also think that this answer helps to underline what I would call a backward attitude in relation to the major challenges in this sector. There is a lot of attention around some connections if for a short period the column run or the night closes. That's what many along the coast live with permanently. It's column run and night locked because the ferry stops walking, or because they only occasionally leave. Then I thought it was a little strange -- not just a little bit, it's very strange -- that the Council of State can't be clearer when it comes to highly trafficked connections, which have up to 1 hour and 20 minutes between departures. Do you think it is acceptable or will it do something? Because this is about small funds. I'm also surprised that she can't answer directly if she thinks 45,000 passenger car units in overshooting in nine months is too much. I see that today's Council of State is also focusing primarily on the great threat she has to offer, and the big funds she thinks it is to save on it. I actually perceive some of what she says, as a disclaimer from the department's side. It may not be the case that the company is now to be the one-sided entity responsible for a custom ferry offer, at the same time that the company does not know which ferry routes they are actually responsible for. That's the big dilemma in relation to the signals that came last night from Sogn and Fjordane. There were eight companies that had submitted offers. How can companies, such as their suppliers, who are required to plan future statements, both for the company and for those who add them, know what holiday materials they are going to keep up with at any time? It must be the responsibility of the department to clarify this field. Governments say yes, there needs to be a strengthening. She's busy with the past. In the Center Party, we're busy with the future. She's signaled an increase of 1.4 pst. the next 10 years. It can't be called a reinforcement at all. It's actually a reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e341	I am concerned that people will get a good holiday offer, that the money spent on this will result in better ferry services. What have we seen when we had these gas suspension solutions out for tender? Well, we have received offers that are much, much lower than it could have been. We're saving millions of dollars that can be spent on those ferry routes where we don't get this. This is quite serious for me, because there is little eagerness to give people the ferry they want. I'm worried if the attitude is that you say, let's spend the most money on this without seeing that we get something left for it. That is, I would say, very bad policies for those who live along the coast. I'd almost say that it's disrespectful to say that the goal is just to spend money, without making sure people get a better offer. I can't stand it! I won't stand for it! So if it's passive disclaimer to have a plan for people to get a good deal, I can say with my heart that we don't agree. I also think it's increasing the subsidy for this service from 640 million. kr to almost 1.2 billion kr actually is a long step. And what's the challenge here? Well, we've got new safety requirements. We've got new safety requirements, which require a lot of money. We can't close our eyes to that. But we have said yes to it, because we want it to be felt safe to travel by this means of transport. I do not accept at all that it is claimed that this is a discharge from liability. We take responsibility for security. We take responsibility for the environment. We take responsibility for the travellers who need an offer. Then I refuse to agree to spend many hundred million kroner unnecessarily on this type of solution, without having seen whether it would be more reasonable to do so. We know that it's going to be fairer. There is a great deal of interest in any connection, and that there are a lot of actors who have signed up, I think is very happy. I would also like to remind you that we are constantly making proposals in this Chamber to replace holiday solutions. Ferry solutions are not a good solution in the long term. For a lot of connections where the possibilities are right, we want to have mainland connections, that we can have tunnels, and that we can have bridges. We regularly suggest that. This is a deliberate policy for this government, because we want the coastal population to have an experience of having a good offer. There's a lot of valuable value creation going on around the country, which we're going to be involved in making sure that others too can get involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e352	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa tries in his interpellation to create a contrast between a good ferry offer and competitive outsourcing. There's a wrong problem. Competitive outsourcing is an instrument to ensure better and more efficient ferry services. Competitive outsourcing will provide more ferries for the money and better ferrying capacity. What is essential is the requirements and standards underlying the tender and the ability of the State ordering to ensure that the standard is complied with. However, I share the concern of the representative, Meltveit Kleppa, for the connections in Rogaland that she addresses in the interpellation. What's sad is that she can't help but relate the acutely difficult situation in these relationships to her political struggle against competitive outsourcing. As the Council of State pointed out in its intervention, competitive outsourcing will result in one within the budgetary framework meeting the new long-term objectives set out in the National Transport Plan 2006-2015. The measures for frequency, opening time and refurbishment are specific. I would nevertheless like to thank the representative of Meltveit Kleppa for addressing the problems in the Bokenafjord and Tau connections in the interpellation. The situation of the Boknafjord connection is unsustainable. Today it is approx. 10 pst. after-sitting, and approx. 100000 vehicles remain standing. The most common thing is of course that you have to stand above a ferry departure, but this is not just about peaks on weekends. When one of the three ferries is out of service, e.g. in the context of classification, it is a complete chaos. One may sometimes have four to five hours of waiting. This is unsustainable. Therefore, compared with the current competitive bidding process, there is a need for the Road Administration to reassure the coastal population that the offer will be improved. We need evidence that, through the agreement with new operators, one can ensure the standard laid down by the Stortinge in the National Transport Plan. We need evidence of how the operator will handle the situations where one of the two ferries is out of service and that the standard also applies throughout the tendering period, including with a high traffic growth. The area served by this link is one of the most growthable areas in the country. In the short term, there is a need for a capacity increase. I hope that the Committee on Transport will be able to look at the possibility of using some of the 350 million in the course of the year's budgetary procedure. kr they have got extra to highways, so that we can get a necessary increase in the capacity of this connection. It'll cost about 2.5 million. kr. Similar problems are seen in the Tau and Hjelmeland connections. I'll draw out especially the last one. In the Homeland Connection there is a need for small adjustments to ensure that a key company such as the salmon slaughterhouse is connected better to their operations. Here we are talking about very important jobs in the district. The municipality and the municipality have tried to bring the Vegvesen on a fissure layer to ensure the necessary adjustment of the frequency, but have found little flexibility in the Vegvesen. Here's a few hundred thousand dollars. I hope that the Council of State can help to make the Road Administration take a different view on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e367	The councils and now, in part, the representative from the Rogaland Right, Bent Höie, boasts of the government's efforts for the fjord people's path, the ferries. Then he committed a disclaimer against offer and efficiency. It would have been a good idea to ask people who travel by the English railway, how they thought this had gone, how well they thought the offer had been since the railways were laid out on offer and privatized. SV calls for control and action to ensure that the Right in Rogaland and other places are required, which are ferries that go, and ferries that ensure that businesses and commuters get what they need. That's what the state council has to follow up on. That's what's required from, for example. County Spokesman, Rogaland Right Mountain Stuff. The question therefore becomes, for example: Twist against the Tau connection: Will the Council of State ensure that an extra ferry is made in the first place, so that the business community in Strand and the commuters there get a better offer? They can't have it the way they have it today. One often has very big problems. The vacations come in late, people come home late, and they're late for work, all the stuff that business or commuters need. So here it has to be cleaned up! I also believe that if an e.g. in this Tau connection had a new ferry, preferably on gas, one had not had the requirement of what you now have, pointing towards the construction of a 13-km-long tunnel from Tau to Stavanger. Then it had the demand gone, and it wouldn't have been the trouble with the Ryfast project, which is going to cost NOK 3 billion. The business community has repeatedly raised the issues associated with the losses they have due to the ferry services offered in the Tau connection. A collective rogaland bench has tried to record this many times. The center part and SV have suggested several times in Stortinget that this should be cleaned up. I find that the answer from the government council and government is that we should wait for the offer, and we should streamline, and while the commuters are still on the pea, and business loses money. This is such a relaxed attitude that it has no features other than action resolve. What we need from the Government is a clean-up, so that the business community gets what they need, and the commuters get an offer they can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e380	‘The main road ferries are considered to be an integral part of the state road network.’ This is a quote from the budget proposal from the Ministry of Transport for the following year, 2005. However, if ferries are to be regarded as a natural part of the road network, ferries must comply with certain requirements. There must be a requirement for good frequency, which means that the waiting time is not long, the capacity must be such that it is minimal with remaining cars, and important connections must have good opening time or night travel. We, who are from ferries, know from experience that being dependent on ferry costs both time and money, and for the industry in the district, ferry costs help to increase distance costs. Factors such as frequency, capacity, night travel and ticketing costs, perhaps not least, determine the amount of this additional cost. The budget proposal from the Ministry of Transport for next year stated that 55 pst. of the national road ferry service is expected to meet all long-term operational standard objectives in 2005. But that means that it's almost half of the national ferry service that doesn't meet the long-term targets next year. So here it's a big improvement potential. In the budget proposal for the current year, the Ministry of Transport said that, in order to maintain and improve ferry services, it is dependent on improving the efficiency of ferry services. The highest potential pointed to in terms of efficiency was devoted to reducing the number of current ferries. Of course, not all connections are as frequent throughout the year, but also during periods of low traffic, the amount of traffic may be high for periods. With reduced crews, the capacity of the ferries is also smaller, and that means that the number of remaining cars is increasing, with all the problems it causes for the road users. I can cite an example of such a connection from my own state, Stårheim-Isane, where they have experienced exactly that situation. To streamline the supply of ferries in such a way as to make them worse can't be what we're looking at. Public disclosure is the other area where there is evidence that there are ways of improving efficiency. State councils stressed in their first post that there must be a look at and savings by having a call for proposals, but then it is a little strange what happened in Sogn and Fjordane yesterday, that they rejected all the offers because they were too cheap. I demand, as the interpellant, a comment from the Council of State to that particular situation. Governments also indicated that the cost of ferries has increased, but that it is due to increased capital costs and increased security requirements. Yes, we're going to meet the requirements that are necessary for safe travel, but it can't be that we're going to go down on the offer of road users. Then society has to take its responsibilities and use the resources that are needed to be safe, while at the same time having an offer that we can be happy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e391	Why doesn't the Center Party also go in so that the ferries are free of charge for the users? Is that because it's a district tax? Why didn't one go into the state budget for that? We believe that the ferries should be free of charge for the users, because the ferries are part of the road link. Only in recent years have cuts been proposed for several ferry sections located in the European road network. This would lead to a deterioration in the transport conditions of the enterprises located in Coastal and District Norway. It will not least mean destroying the infrastructure in those areas of the country where people depend on using ferries when people have to go to hospitals. There are a lot of people living on a flooded island, and they have to take a ferry or a boat to get to a hospital, if they are not picked up by helicopters. In other words, the Norwegian ferry link is subject to cost cuts that weaken the economy of the businesses and the safety and security of the people living in the districts. I refer you to document No. 8-proposals that I have previously promoted, and which were voted down here in the Storting of the majority, on free ferry, free bombs and free tunnels. In a letter from the Ministry of Transport to the Committee, it was pointed out that people would start travelling more if it was free, and they could not agree to it. People don't travel more than they have to! They do not travel because it has become free! But that was the reason in the letter from the department. It's almost as bad that the ferries are not free for people living in the districts, as the Stortinge decided that it's not allowed to be polite. I refer then to the debate that took place on personal watercraft. Then was one of the reasons that people could have it politely on watercraft! That's what the letter said. So the majority of the Storting decided that it's not allowed to be polite. It's almost incredible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e400	It's disappointing to right state council answers. Governments are very enthusiastic about improving efficiency and postponing competition in the response to the inter-pellant, but in my view they lack full involvement and offensive restraint when it comes to this problem area in District Norway. In fact, it costs money to operate ferry services along the coast. In More and Romesdal, MRF, the country's largest ferry company, operates most of the connections. The company is today characterized by a ferry that is old and has worn-out material. They operate 27 national road connections and four county road connections. The average figure on the fleet is over 27 years, and in 2003 they carried almost 7 million vehicles. The summer holiday offer in More and Romesdal is developing more and more into a crowded bottleneck in the road system. The summer that we've just spent behind us, the ferries were all set up, and then things happen, as they do, especially on the basis of a fleet of such a high average age, we stand without a spare ferry. This has been easy to reproduce. Maybe it's a single ferry connection first, but it's kind of shifting to multiple connections. Otherwise, not only in the summer season the spare material is bad. It also applies to the rest of the year. We have remaining running gear on multiple connections. In my county, we have four pedigree ferries. At times, on all these tribal road connections, we have greatly reduced capacity. Then it's no wonder that there's growing frustration among business, commuters and other travelers. Missing spare ferries are a major obstacle to a good enough exit from ferry traffic in a state like More and Romsdal. And it's no wonder that service, standard and availability in connection with vacation operations occupy the majority of people and not least the business of a region where a daily holiday depends. What's strange and eye-catching from my point of view is that the commitment that people out in the ferries are showing seems to be missing when it's up to the Council of State that's in charge of this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e417	Let me, for the sake of order, give it advice to the Bastisen that he listens to what we say before he comes with his debts. I just mentioned in my post that the Center Party has free ferries as a long-term goal, and I gave a foundation for it. Secondly, I have to distance myself from the opinion of the Council of State of the Center Party, that we uncritically want to cash into this sector. That's actually not our purpose, and I also said that in my post. We're busy getting the most out of the money, but we're disunity in the excessive threat department has on what one can get out of the competition compared to the big challenges that are in this sector. We are very pleased with the increase in funds that the sitting government has led, but we are aware, as the Council of State, that the increase has not come because the government is busy with better regularity and strengthened frequency and capacity. He has come because of security requirements, as the Council of State itself said. Then there are some points of light here that it is well worth noting: for the first thing, the Council of State says that the downgrading of highway ferries will be ‘set in rest’. Secondly, Bent Höie recalls a happy point in the budget agreement, just 350 million. kr more to the national road, saying that he hopes that some of these funds can be used to strengthen the ferry service. I agree with that, and the Centre Party should like to be involved and supported in the Committee. So once again, there is a very important clarification, and that is the overview that the Council of State has sent to the Stortinget in relation to the objectives of the forthcoming transport planning period. So there's an overview of the frequency and the opening time measurements, and it looks like there's 21 connections that will partially reduce the opening time if this goal is followed. If that's not the case, if it's going to be localizations, and the communities that work for increased opening time instead of reduced may still have hope of it, I'll ask the council to settle that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e431	Let me first answer the last question. There is a challenge in the overall leadership addressed in the national transport plan in relation to the low congestion target. For some ferry connections, the situation is better than the goal, and it's of course that we don't want the situation to get worse for them. I understand the question, because what was behind the idea when you dealt with the National Transport Plan was that you had to improve the situation for those who had, I would say, a bad starting point. I'm going to go through this, because I don't want us to add up to a policy where the situation gets worse. We have to see this in relation to traffic. It doesn't have to be that positive targets are negative elsewhere. I'm going to follow up on it as the interpellant points out, because I think it's a very important and relevant point. With regard to the use of money, I am concerned about it. I think we agree quite reasonably that we want a good offer along the coast. Now last summer there was a precarious situation, among other things. in More and Romesdal. I don't want us to get into it again. I also know that there is a lot of summer traffic. If we get into the situation that we need a spare ferry, we have an extra challenge. We have to work on that, and we're going to deal with that in relation to the State Road Service in such a good time that we should have a better basis to avoid that situation, it's in Rogaland or in More and Rome's valley, for that matter. From Rogaland I also record that it is a desire not to realize Ryfast. Of course you have to consider that, if it is the case that there is a consensus that you do not want to have such a project carried out. Then I would like to say again that claiming that it is inaction on the part of the Government to go so clearly in order for us to have a strong ferry sector, I do not understand at all. When we have increased the appropriations for the ferry sector from 640 million. NOK 1,166 billion, why have we done that? Well, because we don't want the travelers to pay this increase. That would be the option. The alternative would have been for us as travellers to pay this, and we don't want that. We want us to have a living coastal community – along the whole coast – and that means we need to have a ferry offer that is also acceptable at price. That's why we've chosen to increase this amount by almost 100 pst. I will end by saying that this has been a useful debate. I would say that this government is concerned about the ferry sector. I'm taking with me the input that comes from the fact that there are challenges, especially summer time, and that's a lot of overloading. I am aware of the challenges you face, for example. in relation to the Tau connection, and we are going to work continuously to see if solutions are available, even before the tendering period is reinstated.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e442	Case No. 2 has been completed. The President will draw attention to the fact that the setting of case No. 3 has not been beyond the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. There have been no objections to the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e461	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e470	The issue we are dealing with today is an SV proposal that the Human-Ethical Association and other life-viewing societies and a registered civil society with right of marriage should be managed in partnership. The proposal involves changes to the rules of the Partnership Act, so that all life-viewing societies and religious communities with rights of marriage and seeking the right to manage partnership are granted in line with the right of marriage. Under the last paragraph of Section 2 of the Partnership Act, testing of the terms and procedure for the registration of partnerships shall be carried out in accordance with rules laid down by the Ministry. If more than one person is to be qualified to register, this requires amendments to Section 15 of the Regulation. In connection with the treatment of marriage law, Innst. O. No 17 for 2003-2004, which was discussed on 2 December 2003, a unanimous committee favoured the right of marriage for life-seeking communities. The Human-Ethical Federation was given such a right from 1 October this year. Neither life-viewing societies nor registered religious communities have been given the competence to conduct partnership registration. It is only notary who has such competence. There are two concrete proposals in this matter. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left want to deal with the proposal without further investigation, and believes that this is a natural consequence of these changes in the Marriage Act. They ask that, in this context, the Government amend the provisions of the Partnership Act so that all life-viewing societies and religious communities with rights of marriage and who are applying for the right to enter into partnership are granted this – in line with marriage. The right hand party and the central party believe that if others other than notary publicus are to be entitled to enter into a partnership, this is of such a nature as to require investigation and wide consultation. The outcome of the investigations and the wide consultation shall form the basis for any change in the regulatory framework. These parties therefore promote a proposal to ask the Government to address the issue of whether life-viewing societies and registered religious communities are entitled to enter into partnerships. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party indicate that in their time they voted against the Partnership Act, and therefore do not accept any of the proposals. Through their comments, the party of progress shows that they are looking at Document No. The 8th proposal by the Socialist Left as an extension of the Partnership Act, and therefore does not support any of the proposals. I expect that the various parties will provide further justification for their comments and suggestions. We are now in the situation that there is no majority in the vote for any of the proposals, but the Workers' Party and SV say in a note that if their primary proposals fall, they will provide subsidiary support for the proposal of the Right and the Center Party. As I said, the Right believes it is necessary to investigate this matter, and it is important that it comes out to wide consultation, before a final position is taken on such a change of regulation. Finally, I address the proposal from the Right and the Center parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e493	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e496	As stated in Document No. 8:28 for 2003-2004, proposers want to allow life-viewing communities and religious communities which have rights of marriage and which are seeking the right to enter into partnerships. To date, only the Human-Ethical Federation has applied for this right. We who know the Human-Ethical Association know that they can make name parties, which correspond to baptism, bourgeois confirmation and funerals, and from 1 October this year they can also make weddings. But they can't do partnership between pairs of the same sex. I regret that this proposal cannot have a majority in the committee. The Christian People's Party cannot even agree that the matter should be investigated, and says, like the Progress Party, that they vote against, on the grounds that they voted against the Partnership Act in their time. But it's adopted, and we have to deal with that. I interpret this to the point that it is to mark the distance from homofiles. This applies both to the Christian People's Party and to the Advancement Party. So we haven't come any further in Norway today than that someone has to say that not everyone is equivalent in our society. In a letter from the Ministry of Children and Family, the Committee has been briefed that only a regulatory change is needed in order, inter alia, to: The Human-Ethical Association may be responsible for the establishment of partnerships. It is a matter of course of course that no one, whether a society of life or a community of faith, will in the future be forced to undertake a ceremonial partnership against his own will. It has to do with religious freedom. The proposal actually means that gays, like heterophiles, should also have the right to choose for themselves where the ceremony is to take place, and who will perform it – it is a great event to enter into a partnership. It is right to mention in the debate that registered religious communities have not been given the competence to manage partnership registration, but that notary publicus, who is by-pass, city or lordship, or scapegoats, holds that competence today. The Workers' Party will support the SV's proposal. Unfortunately, it may seem that SV's proposals do not receive a majority. That is why we want to support the proposal of the Right and the Left parties subsidiaryly. We will at least agree to take responsibility for the continuation of this case and will not be put at the back of a drawer. I hope that the Council of State will make sure that the investigations go quickly, and that she will come back to the Storting as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e513	I might not have said anything in this matter, because the chairman of the committee has been so nice that she has read our whole comment, so it should be quite clear what we mean. But when I hear the article from the Workers' Party, it is quite obvious that there is a certain need to attach some comments to the matter. In the Progress Party, there is a broad consensus that we are against the Partnership Act. Of course, it is difficult to repeal a law that has worked for a while, but we do not have to be a follower of expanding it. We have to see in our eyes that there is an actual difference between a heterophilic couple and a homophilic couple. There's an actual difference from nature, and that's why, in the Progress Party, we have no problem that the law also distinguishes in this area. We think it's OK that religious societies four men and women, but we draw a marked distinction, and believe that the responsibility lies with notary publicus when one is to «vie» man to man or woman to woman. I actually get a little angry when the Labour Party representative says that this is a way of taking a distance from gay people. Personally, I have more friends who are gay, and in the Progress Party we have both members and active politicians who are gay, and I am in no way taking a distance from. Many good colleagues here in the Stortinget are also gay. This is not about discrimination or homophobia on the part of the Progress Party. We respect that you choose to live with the ones you choose, but we want a clearly defined distinction in the law. Both the gay organisations and politicians who have been active in this matter require respect for the gays. Yes, but then we too, who do not agree with the issues being raised, must have respect for the views we have on this matter. I ask that the voting be put up so that it is possible to vote against both proposals that have been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e526	The President will assume that no matter how you put up a vote, it is possible to vote against all the proposals you want to vote against, so there will be no problem to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e529	It's tempting to use my entire contribution to answer the representative of the Progress Party, but I just want to say one thing: this is about human rights, and it's about discrimination. It is not a revolutionary proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, Karin Andersen and I have advocated that the Human Ethics Association and other life-view societies and registered religious communities with right of marriage should also be entitled to conduct partnership, but unfortunately there will not be a majority in favour of this proposal today. In December 2003, a unanimous committee welcomed the fact that life - vision societies were to be granted the right to marry. In this examination of the Marriage Act, no changes were made to the Partnership Act so that the right of marriage for life-viewing societies and faith-society should also apply at the time of partnership. Only the Human-Ethical Federation has applied for the right to manage the conclusion of partnerships of life-view societies and registered religious communities. Unfortunately, I have to say ‘naturally enough’ because there is the most resistance to partnerships in the different religious communities. It was disappointing when, during the debate on the amendment of the marriage law, the Council of State answered me: ‘Only the Human-Ethical Federation has applied for this, and no one else. It may be a little small to go to a major legislative change based on the wishes of one organisation.» The entire 33 pst., a significant part of the population, answers that the humane or humanistic view of life without any particular belief is closest to their own view of life. The resistance to giving the Human Ethics Federation the right to manage the establishment of partnerships is unfortunately more profound for more parties than this single case reveals. Only the Progress Party demonstrates its position and resists the possibility for homosexuals to regulate their lives under Norwegian law, either by marriage law or partnership law. It is discrimination against homosexuals who live in a stable society. It is at the expense of the Progress Party, but it is to their advantage that they do not try to cover up discrimination. The Centre Party has programmed that homofiles should be given the opportunity to be considered as adoptive parents, but is not now in favour of granting Human-Ethical Union right of marriage without further investigation, even if it is under an adopted law, the Partnership Act. I want to ask the Center Party if this is a sign of a retreat from the Center Party. Thus, in its 2001 party programme, homosexuals will be given the opportunity to be assessed as adoptive parents, but the establishment of partnerships under the auspices of the Human-Ethical Federation will now require a major investigation. Right, who himself has an open gay as state council, and who has a rogue representative who is open gay, chooses to bow to the Christian People's Party in government cooperation. But they're going to want an investigation, a proposal SV subsidiary will support if our proposal falls. It's actually better than nothing. It is actually also a step forward, although we are of course disappointed that the Right does not support our proposal. Of course, the proposal we have made is not our primary position. It is covered by the matter we are debating later here today, namely a gender-neutral marriage law. If it had been adopted, this matter would have been completely unnecessary. What we want with our proposal today, however, is to also provide the homosexuals who want it, an alternative to making partnerships with notary public – that is, the Human-Ethical Union and the religious community. I am very pleased that the Labour Party supports our proposals in this matter. It gives a signal forward, and it's a step forward. We also know that if there is a different majority after the next election, there is a majority for this proposal. We're very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e563	When the Storting dealt with the issue of the right of marriage for life-viewing societies, this was to equate life-viewing societies with religious communities. This kind of equality, the Committee, was behind it. The issue we are dealing with today, about the right to register partnerships, has a completely different starting point. Partnership registration takes place neither in life-seeing or religious communities, but in notary public. The right to maintain the registration of partnerships is therefore not a natural consequence of the changes made to the marriage law. Moreover, only one life-viewing society has asked for a change in partnership registration practices. Therefore, the Christian People's Party sees no reason to make such a change. The Christian People's Party will also highlight what the majority say – all except the Workers' Party and SV, although I think I might have heard something else from the pulpit here – that the rule of human rights on freedom of religion must apply in any case. No one can oblige a society of life's or faith to conduct partnership without their will. The Christian People's Party will vote against both the minority position and the proposal, but sees that there will be a majority for the proposal. I am pleased that the majority of people then want an investigation and a wide consultation, so that those who may receive this right will also be heard in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e572	I should just make a short comment. The case spokesperson has provided a good and thorough explanation of the contents of this case. The centre party is in agreement with the Right in both the comments and suggestions, and thus shares the assessments made by the case spokesperson. With subsidiary support from the Labour Party and SV, the proposal from the Right and the Center parties will have multiples, I believe. No date has been set for this proposal, the time we expect the Government to put this matter before the Storting. But I expect the Department and the Council of State to take seriously the proposal that is likely to be agreed, and to start the distribution, and that we will get it back to the Storting as soon as we can. So I got an invitation from SV that referred to our program formulation, which is probably about another matter, a matter that we're going to deal with in Odelstinget later today. I would like to remind the representative from SV that the original Document No. The 8th proposal, which is the basis for this now, on the amendment of the legal text, has been substantially changed in what is the minority proposal today, which concerns changes in the rules of the law of partnership. Now it's the way we treat this house that we present to the groups what is the original, and when it might change in the query, it's often practical problems in relation to the group treatment. I am of the opinion that we should have a clean form of treatment when it comes to changes in laws. I think that a change in law should in principle be heard, and I'm not so excited that we change the legal texts through Document No. Eight proposals. Otherwise, I can say so much that from the centre party's point of view, I don't think it will be a problem to join this when the matter comes back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e586	The proposal now under consideration is therefore about allocating the right to manage partnerships to different life-view societies. In fact, we in the Left want to go the opposite way and withdraw the right of the life-view societies to manage the formal inception of both marriage and partnership. Our program says: ‘The left is in favour of a joint legal marriage replacing a church marriage as marriage and, at the same time, replacing the existing partnership law. Then it will be up to the individual religious and life views to decide whether or not. own matrimonial markers.’» In it lies the same view of equality between marriage and partnership as in the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, but we will organise this in a different way, a better and simpler way in our view. Given today's marriage law, we may subsidiaryly be able to support equality between all life-viewing societies and religious communities, including with regard to the establishment of partnerships. However, we agree with the majority of the committee that such a change in legislation should then take place in an orderly manner, through investigations and hearings. Lawmaking directly in the Storting is not always reassuring, and regardless of the position in the individual matters, we are very sceptical about it. We will therefore vote in favour of the majority's proposal. At the same time, I would urge all parties to seriously consider whether the Left's solution with a common legal conclusion of marriage can resolve this issue. There are a lot of religious and life-sight societies – big, small, and some very small. Someone's coming, and someone's going. It may be difficult to define who has sufficient competence to carry out the important legal task of marriage. It's e.g. So here in the country, we're easier to give marriage rights to people who don't know Norwegian language. Europe in general has the Left's solution to this. The left believes it would be beneficial to do the opposite of what SV suggests — that marriage should take place more according to the model of the partnership law than the other one — and that means that one then chooses to take the ceremonial part in relation to the god or view of life that one wants to sail, while the legal part is moved to the state. We believe that having a ceremony at the beginning of life and having a ceremony at the transition from childhood to adulthood is something quite different from the legal part of a marriage. It's a way to organize our society that we've decided to use. That's why we want to separate the legal part from what's related to life's vision and faith. I hope and believe that the issue can be addressed and assessed in the investigation that is now being requested. It is rare that you as a government party are on request for investigations, but this is a matter that is now obviously built up a lot of pressure on here in Stortinget. I also think it may be strange in 2004 to have such a debate as the one we now have, although I know that I was born in a country where homophilis was banned. I'm very proud to be a member of the party that first proposed to remove that law, and that has always been in the front when it comes to equality and human rights in this particular area. Combating this discrimination is important. I hope that the Left now thinks a few new ideas about how to organise marriage in society, also being followed by the other parties, as our thoughts on anti-discrimination in these areas have also been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e608	The representative, Skei Grande, mentions the starting point of the Left, that it is really desirable that both marriages and partnerships be made by notary public. Anyone who has read the comments on the family message will see that there is also SV's primary starting point. But when the majority has opted for a different solution, we want equal treatment between marriages and partnerships. In a comment in today's position, I see that it says that the majority will stress that the principle of marriage law is the rule of human rights on freedom of religion. No community of faith or community of life can be forced into consecrating like-minded couples. But there will be a strong one-way freedom of belief when the principle is used here to justify the refusal of a life-viewing society that wants to manage partnerships, to do just that. Because if freedom of faith is the goal, you have to say that the life-vision societies themselves are to choose what they want to apply for. But the reality of this room is that freedom of faith is important if you say that a society of life/faith must not be forced into partnership, while the freedom of the life-view society that I belong to – I myself am a humaneist – to choose to organize in the way we want is less important. In the SV's view, we have now, from the majority in this room, established a principle that allows us to apply for the right to marry, and we have a partnership law based on parallelism with the marriage law on all points other than some specific exceptions, which are primarily related to children. Then it becomes a little special to extend this right of marriage to religious communities, but refuse to give it the same opportunity in terms of the partnership law. It is difficult to see this as something other than a restriction of the principles of the Partnership Act. I record that, among other things, come from parties that claim – and acknowledge – in the public debate to accept the partnership law we have today. Finally, the representative Mr Knudsen, who himself does not want discrimination, but only a distinction in the law, and will have respect for this point of view: I defend freedom of expression in the public debate. If anyone wants to say that according to their faith they believe that the man is the dominant woman, I respect their right to say so, but I call it female discrimination. If anyone wants to say that it's their belief that black people are worth less than white people, I would also say, well, that's what we're going to tolerate in freedom of faith, but I call it discrimination. And when the representative Knudsen chooses to say that one kind of love is more natural, more correct, than another kind of love, I respect that he has the right to say it in the public debate. But it's discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e621	The difficult-to-read committee settings are never a good basis for making reality statements in any case. What is difficult about this committee position, and also about the same committee's attitude to a case to be dealt with in the public hearing later today, is that it is very difficult for outsiders to see what the different fractions agree on, and what they do not agree on, because some of the arguments go past each other. For me, it is only in the direction of one clear conclusion, namely that questions of this nature are extremely poor for the purpose of dealing with reality on the basis of Document No. Eight proposals. There are no types of issues that are less suitable for treatment on such a weak basis. It may be due to coincidence that the two proposals are being dealt with on the same day in the Grand Duchy, but it illustrates an embedded problem, namely that the two proposals promoted by one and the same party are, in turn, turning each other upside down. Because if one were to be adopted, the other would fall away from itself as if not applicable. For my part, it underlines once again that everything speaks for difficult issues where there are problems in overcoming the legislative and regulatory consequences of a decision in the Stortinget, will win over the fact that there is a proper investigation that can point to all these consequences, before the Stortinget insists that it wants to change the current legal situation. In short, I think all of these things speak in favour of the proposal in the vote that the Right and the Center parties are behind, and that I understand is going to get a majority through subsidized support from other parties. And then you can hope that this lands in a way that the Storting might be familiar with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e630	This might be hanging out a little bit in detail, but it's perhaps smarter to hang out in detail than hanging out in trees. To the representative Hall Arnøy: In my post I did not talk about what is more or less natural. For some people it's from creation that it's natural to be happy in some of the same sex, for other people it's so that naturally it's the opposite sex. What I said was that there's an actual difference between a gay couple and a heterophilic couple, an actual difference from nature. It has, among other things, with the possibility of having children. It's actually still so that a gay couple somehow has to have assistance to get to it. It must normally not have a heterophilic pair. What I said was just a hint of this fact from nature, which neither I nor Hall Arnøy can do anything special about.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e639	To the representative Wage: This is a consequence of the fact that this proposal was not promoted when we were going to change the marriage law. There were several hearings, and there was already a request from the Human-Ethical Federation to amend the Partnership Act at the same time – we were under great pressure in this committee. It was then taken up by SV in the hall, if the council wanted to make this change. I referred to that in my article. I can do it one more time. I thought it was very disappointing when the Council of State during the debate answered me that since it was only the Human-Ethical Federation that had applied for this, and no one else, it was perhaps going a little too far to go to a major legislative change. All 33 p.m. says that the humane vision of life without any particular belief lies almost up to their point of view of life. So this is where you discriminate 33 pst. of the Norwegian population having a different view of life from that of the Norwegian Church and other religious communities. It has been said quite a lot from this pulpit today that one should respect the different religious communities, and I believe that SV actually does to a great extent. That is precisely why we saw the need to promote this proposal. I said from the pulpit that if the Council of State does not make a proposal to amend the partnership law in line with the marriage law, SV will promote this proposal. The fact that we have two proposals available in this room today is because our primary position is a gender-neutral marriage law – but we may well have seen that it was not possible to get a majority for it now. That is why we did, as we said in the debate when we amended the marriage law, that we promote this proposal at the same time and see if it will be an opportunity. This is no radical change. In fact, it's just to give those who want to enter into partnerships under the auspices of the Human-Ethical Federation an opportunity to do so. I think it is quite incredible that it is so complicated and difficult. This has actually been at the hearing in connection with the marriage law. Then you wanted this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e650	I'm not going to take the debate out indefinitely, but I have to give a little answer to the representative Knudsen, who made it clear that gay and heterophilic in his eyes are the same, except that they have to have different rights in the law because one group has children and the other has no children. I must first thank the representative Knudsen for this generous and kind attitude, but I would also like to point out that no one has seriously proposed to have a test of the ability to have children as a condition for the legal rights you grant, whether through marriage or through partnership. The first fact is that many live in marriages without children, and that many live in partnership with children. So I would encourage the representative Knudsen, if he seriously believes that only couples with children are going to get the legal rights that society gives today by marriage law and partnership law, to promote this proposal in the Stortinget. It could be a very interesting debate. Perhaps a small challenge if someone thinks you should wait with sex for marriage – but we can certainly find a solution to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e655	I will not interfere in the theological debates on the understanding of creation, because they have a relatively opaque connection with what is proposed for consideration in this matter. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that, of course, I am not infecting any party's right to promote what proposals they may wish to make as Document No. Eight proposals. Of course, it's also quite OK if SV or other parties consider it to be a mailbox system, where one further pursues the aspirations of organisations outside this room. It has to be completely free of charge for the parties. I have just pointed out that it would be beneficial for the Storting to deal with such questions about using Document No. The 8 scheme does not invite the Storting to take a substantive decision on a spin-off basis, but rather to facilitate a serious handling of the issues, i.e. to ask the Government to carry out the necessary assessment and investigation work normally underpinning changes in legislation and practice in accordance with the law of a civilised society. I would like to repeat that the two committee positions both in this case and in the case of Odelstinget will be dealt with later today, calling for a long way in which matters have not been resolved in such a way that it is possible for Stortinget to take a realistic view of the proposals in question. Let me also take the opportunity to say that, for my part, I have a considerable sense of what the Left spokesperson said in this debate about the desirability of distinguishing in a clearer way than Norwegian legislation is doing today, between the legal act, which deals with the establishment of marriage and partnership, on the one hand and, on the other hand, the ceremonial that people, from their point of view of life, had to want in that context. Because there's a lot of talk that in the future it'll be the best way to go to make it quite clear that the legal side of this is society's responsibility. The ceremonial side of this is not in the same way a social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e666	May Hansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e669	I just want to tell the representative that we fully agree with what he says, that this should be done by notary public. If Right wants to support SV in such a proposal, we are very happy about it. We've done that before, but we haven't had a majority for that. As regards SV’s use of a ‘postage checkout scheme’ to pursue policies in this process, I stated during the examination of changes to the marriage law that the Government, as a necessary consequence of these changes, should have made a proposal to amend the partnership law. It hasn't come. So it's that way that you can actually put Document No in this big one. Eight proposals to provide both voters and input related to such important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e676	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 431]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e693	It is important to ensure good interaction between parents, kindergarten, SFO — the school leisure system — school and non-governmental organisations. Children and young people are individuals who deserve respect and influence over their own lives. All are different and should have development opportunities based on their own value and abilities, but each individual lives in interaction with others. Children do not choose their parents, and the Labour Party believes that kindergarten, school leave and public school are the security that all children need. It is not the parents' wallet to decide which offers children should receive. The family plays an important role in building security, identity and value, but friends also play a central role in the lives of children and young people. In the circle of friends, there is learning and testing that is not possible with adults. Voluntary children’s and youth organisations, youth clubs and other meeting places play a central role in developing social awareness and sense of responsibility. We don't want our children to end up in negative youth environments. Therefore, it is important to provide municipalities with an economic opportunity to create the safe meeting places that can strengthen positive identity development and allow our kids to participate and influence. The strenuous local economy makes it difficult for municipal politicians to give priority to prevention of child labour and youth work. Youth clubs and outreach contacts are being closed, not least in this city. The government that sits must take responsibility for the poor local economy and for it to hit the weakest. It is important that children’s and young people’s policies are given high attention. The Ministry of Children and Family now has the primary responsibility for the child law, the adoption law and the growing environment of children and young people. Municipalities are responsible for the welfare services of all their inhabitants, at all ages. The local economy, which is under the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, decides what offers a municipality can offer to children and young people in the municipality, not to talk about the great responsibility that rests on the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. Child protection must be good enough to help all those children and young people who do not have the security that many of us take for granted. Children and young people who are bullied at school and who fall outside social activities will have poor self-esteem and can become depressed and self-destructive and marked for life. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the paediatric psychiatry. In order to do so, it must be accompanied by state resources. We don't have time to wait. This must be done as soon as possible. Child protection comes in where caregivers have failed the children. For these children, it is of particular importance that growing-up conditions are good. The children at risk of falling outside, the grey zone children, are particularly affected by the fact that growing-up conditions outside the family are not good enough. The protection of children must therefore be given more authority in municipal administration, not least in terms of prevention and municipal planning for the benefit of children's growing-up conditions. The aim of the welfare society is to create good growth conditions for all children, wherever the child lives. Child protection is often perceived as the rice behind the mirror. This creates major problems in relation to the trust in child protection, which is essential to helping children and young people. If child protection is required to place children away from home, we must be sure that the offer given then is good enough. This applies both to foster homes and to childcare facilities. Pursuant to Section 5 of the Regulation on the approval of private and municipal institutions to be used for children placed outside the home under the Child Protection Act, it is a condition that the institution fulfils conditions imposed by or on the basis of other legislation. For example, the Labour Environment Act applies to working time schemes. However, a letter of 28 June 2004 from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs of the State Department of Child and Family Protection states that rules on working time arrangements may be waived. It says, among other things: the following: ‘In the case of child protection institutions which practise working time schemes which deviate from the rules of the Labour Environment Act, this means that current working time arrangements may be continued until further notice.’ This, in our view, is not sustainable. Work-time arrangements are not just about the rights of employees, but about the quality of the offer we give to children. We therefore disagree that the Ministry has agreed to derogate from the requirements on working time arrangements. A national effort is needed to prevent children and young people from falling outside and thus encounter problems of a different nature. The Labour Party calls for greater multidisciplinary efforts and a stronger political commitment in this area – not only in words but also in the form of funds. It is a major challenge for children and young people in the process of getting involved in crime to be discovered early. This is also crucial for the help that can be provided to help them out of harmful development. When it comes to the life situation of children, as adults, we must do everything in our power to safeguard the lives of children. We read daily about child abuse committed by adults who take advantage of children's trust. It is therefore important that the child protection service should be obliged to provide information on whether employees of child protection institutions have committed sexual misconduct against children. Unfortunately, it is necessary to protect children and parents from persons with such tendencies. It is unfortunately also a fact that too many abuses occur within the home's four walls. It must therefore be of general interest that foster parents should also be cleared before being approved for foster homes. Adult people with a good conscience should not have problems with this. We see that there is a shortage of foster homes now – that is regrettable. The Ministry of Children and the Family should therefore consider how to establish more good and safe foster homes. In addition, supervision needs to be improved. A report from the Riksrevision stated that 13 pst. lack of supervision by foster homes. This has to be done. It is therefore close to asking what the situation is now and what the Council of State has done to improve the situation. Kindergartens often become the place where children can express their fears, and on several occasions they are the employees of kindergartens who report when something is wrong. The growing-up conditions of children concern us all, and I would therefore like to point out the need for closer cooperation between kindergarten and child protection. The obligation of professional secrecy must not prevent open cooperation when this is in the best interests of the child. A few years ago, we heard a lot about 'folder children', children waiting for an investigation into their child protection issues. In many cases, waiting time and treatment time were too long. I hope that the Council of State here today can give us a guarantee that we do not have any ‘folder children’ matters today. Kids are the future, we say so often. It is true that when we have something we would like to take care of, we take care of it extra well. It must be the same with our children too – not least the weakest, who need us adults the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e730	I fully agree with the representative Fallet that the goal of child protection is that vulnerable children and their families should quickly get the help they need, and not stand in line. We will not have ‘folder children’ in Norway, nor do we. Today, child protection is helping more children than ever, and the legal deadlines are being met to a very high degree. This is a good basis for creating even better child protection and correcting the weaknesses pointed out by the National Audit Office in its 2003 review of child protection. I would like to stress that society has a very special responsibility for the good care and treatment of children and young people who are placed outside their own homes. As a result, after the State took over the county's child protection tasks from this year onward, both the quality and the supervision of child protection measures will become a stronger priority and will be more comprehensive for the country as a whole. In this context, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs has laid down new regulations for both child protection institutions and foster homes. The regulation on the supervision of institutions states that the county must ensure that the laws, regulations and administrative provisions are complied with and that the children are properly cared for and treated. Respect for the integrity of children is underlined; for example: inform children that they can make direct contact with the supervisory authority and how to establish such contact. The county council has a special responsibility to follow up any forced use by the institutions and to ensure that the children are not exposed to anything that violates their integrity or rights under the Child Protection Act. Furthermore, visits to institutions shall be supervised as often as the circumstances of the individual institution so warrant. The county shall carry out at least two visits annually to each institution, of which at least one shall be unannounced. In the case of institutions which accept children with serious behavioural problems, at least four visits shall be carried out annually, of which at least two unannounced. In addition, visits shall be made at all complaints or when the county becomes otherwise aware of adverse circumstances. The visits shall be carried out in the presence of the children and the supervision shall make contact with the individual child. The right of children to speak with supervision without the presence of staff is underlined, and the children shall be informed of this right. The Quality Assurance Regulation requires each institution to have a written plan for the activity setting out how it can meet the requirements of the Quality Regulation and other legislative and regulatory provisions. The requirements apply, inter alia, to: physical design, manning and competence of staff. These include management and professional training and guidance, the retention of private assets of residents, medical supervision and the processing of personal data. State regional child protection authorities are now responsible for the approval, professional follow-up and control of the institutions. So they also have control responsibilities with regard to the institutions. The new authorisation scheme states that the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family ‘whenever and in the manner deemed appropriate’ may monitor the existence of the conditions for authorisation. The Executive Board shall also have the power to withdraw approval. In this case, the institution may no longer be used for the placement of children under the Child Protection Act. The first review of the ongoing approval process has revealed considerable gaps in quality between private institutions. Many institutions have been provisionally authorised with a time limit within which the deficiencies will be rectified and inspections will be carried out on all institutions. This process has already led to major improvements and many new approvals. Per. Today it is approx. 80 pst. by private institutions either approved or provisionally approved. It is therefore at best very impresist when the interpellant claims that several private institutions are not authorised under the new regulations. The institutions that are not authorised after the end of the process should probably not be. They're too bad. In addition, the Swedish Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, in cooperation with the corresponding Swedish child protection authorities, has developed a completely new model for the institutional treatment of young people with serious behavioural problems. In Norway, the model will be tested in all regions. The model contains an investigation part, an institutional treatment part and a follow-up period after relocation. The duration of the institutional stay shall initially be approximately one year. six months, and the duration of the follow-up will be three to four months. In full operation, each institution will have 16 young people, eight of whom are in the institution and eight in follow-up actions. The new model can thus be said to be a combination of institution and community-based measures. The protection of children shall also follow-up and monitor the situation of each child in respect of foster homes. It includes the obligation to advise and guide foster parents as necessary for the duration of the stay and visits to the foster home at least four times a year. In addition, a supervisor shall be appointed to each child when a foster home is approved. This is new in the new regulations. They're tight. The supervisor shall have an independent role in relation to both child protection and foster parents, and children over the age of seven shall be able to comment on the choice of supervisor. Particular attention shall be paid to finding a supervisor in whom the child has or may have the necessary trust. The supervisor shall visit the child in the foster home as often as necessary and at least four times a year, and the child shall be ensured the possibility of addressing any problems with the supervisor without the presence of the foster parents. Based on the report of the National Audit Office, this autumn, in cooperation with the county officials, the Ministry has organised experience conferences for municipalities in all regions. In particular, the focus has been on action plans and the supervision of foster homes. There has been very good participation in these conferences. The Ministry will follow up the Regional Conferences to develop new guidance counsellors for working with children with child protection measures. I want to focus more on prevention and a development where the least possible children are needed to be placed in institutions. However, there will always be some children and young people who need to stay in an institution for a period of time. I have never received any signals that the ordinary care institutions in the field of child protection are not good enough. On the other hand, some of the institutions for young people with serious behavioural problems have been too poor, and that is why we are now making a fundamental change in the offer to this group. Once it has assumed the former responsibilities of the county councils in the field of child protection, it also means that the state will become a resource of competence for the municipalities. Here, regional teams – 26 in total – will play an important role. These teams shall work closely with municipal child protection and other municipal services for children, young people and families. The teams are inter-disciplinaryly composed of child protection, psychological and pedagogical competences, ensuring a professional broad range of work. In my opinion, the situation in child protection is satisfactory, but it can and will be even better. As a follow-up to the Riksrevisions Survey, which the Stortinget dealt with in the autumn of 2003, I will return to the Stortinget in spring 2005 with a detailed explanation of the various elements of the work being done to strengthen the follow-up of children in child protection measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e762	I thank the Council of State for a thorough and good answer. Let me first say that I am of the opinion that official approval is absolutely necessary. We know that the safety of the children is very important, so we can avoid getting into a replacement situation later, which unfortunately we have experienced these days. Then maybe, since the Council of State and I seem to agree fairly on the goal, some people are wondering why we're taking an interpellation. To that end, I would like to say that I believe that child protection and the children's life situation must be raised. They have to get more publicity around them, and that's one of the reasons why I'm spending time in Stortingen to discuss this. I think child protection is doing an amazing job, and I'm very pleased with the signals I've received so far on the decision we made to set up a state's Children's and Family Directorate. It's got a huge responsibility, and I think it'll be a very good support for all the faithful people who work in child protection. I've spoken about it before, and I'm doing it again: working in child protection is not for amateurs. It requires expertise, and it requires good guidance, and here I believe that a government's Children's and Family Directorate and the 26 teams around can be of great help. I think we are discussing children's growing-up conditions and child's safety too little in this room, so I hope this will be a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e775	I would like to commend the representative Eirin Fallet for putting the children's protection on the agenda once again in Stortinget. It's actually exciting to be here and tell something about what's happened since the Storting made a decision about the big child protection reform. I also agree with the representative that it is important that child protection be given greater legitimacy in the population. I think it's about to happen to a greater extent, because we see that the vast majority of those who today contact child protection to get help are actually the parents themselves. That means that child protection is no longer a condition that you are afraid to come and take the children out of your home when your parents need help. We work for greater transparency in child protection. That's absolutely necessary. We need to be more able to communicate, even in the context of the media's individual issues, how the proceedings are, what the procedures are in the field of child protection, so that people understand that there are thorough decisions behind any intervention by the child protection community towards a family. In a relatively short time, around New Year, we will also come up with a whole new information strategy related to all aspects of child protection. We are now working on this both in the department and together with the directorate – it is a very good job – precisely to be able to have a much more consistent approach in terms of information inside and outside child protection. I would also like from this speaker to praise the state child protection, the new directorate and regional offices, and not least the municipal child protection for the current positive implementation. It is a huge reform that is now being implemented in the field of child protection, and enthusiasm is much greater than you might expect in advance. I have spent a lot of time in various parts of the Child Protection Service in recent months, and wherever I come, I hear that what you are now involved is important and that's right. The strategies that were also drawn up on the part of the Stortinges by joining in with what appeared in the Child Protection Communication feel right, it is said out. The grip we've taken with the new teams in Child Protection is perhaps what will give the most support directly to the municipalities. Also in the smallest municipalities, where one child-rescue worker may be alone in matters, he/she will now be able to receive help, guidance and advice to take the difficult decisions. The teams have been a success and are just going to be even better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e790	It is very good that the interpellant places child protection on the agenda. The aim of the Workers' Party is to guarantee everyone equal rights to a good and meaningful life. Now we know that not everyone, even in a well-functioning country like Norway, is as good as we would like. Poverty control sounds very nice. But what does not having money for today’s bread help with words? The government thinks they've invested a lot of resources for this, but yet we're getting more and more poor in this country. Several thousand children live in families in poverty, and many of these children become child-restraint children. The pressure continues to increase on child protection services, and many in the Norwegian Child Protection Service are working under very difficult and under pressure. It is frustrating when the employees know they should be following up in a foster home, but they do not find time for that visit. This kind of produces a domino effect, because with little follow-up and support you like to lose your foster parents after a while. And if there's something we need, that's a good foster home. Child protection in Norway is doing a fantastic job, but still needs both more employees and more predictability in the economy. Prevention opportunities must be available, and there must be sufficient competence to assess which measures are right for each child, and not least for each family. Maybe it's the parents who first need help with their problems. What I mean by that is that we need more research, training and education. We don't get away from the fact that in the future we will also need institutions, and maybe that's the best option for some kids in a period of time. Perhaps the parents are stated and worn, so that they simply cannot go into a home-based arrangement. It is then important that there is the possibility of getting relief by staying in foster homes or institutions. I wish that the after-protection of young people who leave an institution became even better than today, and that the after-protection lasted until the young people were 23 years old. In the case of institutions, whether private or public, the professional quality and control must be the same. This should have nothing to do with money. This is to take care of and give to all children who need it, a safe and healthy upbringing, so that when they grow up, they can control their own lives. We're not going to hear anyone say, "Why wasn't anyone doing anything?" They must have seen me!
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e807	For the Right, it is essential to ensure that all children’s rights and requirements for a good and developmental growth environment are guaranteed. In this context, we believe that equivalence and participation are fundamental values that set specific requirements for those responsible. We think it is important to stress that child protection should not take more responsibility from families, but rather work to build up and support families. However, in cases where the home does not have the power to carry out its care tasks, society has a special obligation to organise schemes that ensure that all children receive good care and growth conditions. Child protection plays an important role here. I want to refer to St.meld. No 40 for 2001–02, on the protection of children and young people, to which the Stortinget has joined. The Communication focused on improving the quality of the provision of vulnerable children and young people, strengthening prevention of family work, better follow-up of parents and foster parents, and strengthening the work of children and families with a minority background. There is no concealment that there is a clear need for improvement, especially when it comes to getting in quickly with help to children and families in crisis, and when it comes to cooperation with other agencies and services. We see the need for child protection with a high level of competence in various forms of preventive family work. An important prerequisite for this is that child protection cooperates well with other local authorities and services, as the interpellant also underlined in its contribution. Private child protection institutions have been important both in terms of space availability and in terms of the development of quality and diversity of child protection. The right considers that the State should enter into good and long-term agreements with private institutions when they can contribute to the provision of a good offer to children. But unfortunately, some private institutions have had an unacceptable standard. It was therefore a unanimous increase in the treatment of Ot.prp. No 9 for 2002-2003 endorsed the Government’s proposal to introduce an authorisation scheme for private child protection institutions in addition to the county’s supervision. As the Council of State was in it, it is per year. Today approx. 80 pst. by private institutions either approved or provisionally approved. It is therefore not true that several private institutions are not authorised under the new regulations, as the interpellant claims. 80 pst. by the children for whom care is taken by society are placed in foster homes. Foster homes are therefore a very important measure in this context. It is essential that the best interests of the child be taken into account for the choice of foster home and that supervision be exercised by appointing the supervisor for each child. I know that the Minister for Child and Family Affairs is following closely, and the Right is satisfied with the efforts made by the Government to provide a comprehensive and accurate child protection service.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e820	The representative of the Fall addresses an important theme in his interpellation. Focusing on the quality of child protection is important for the Progress Party. It is important for the Progress Party both when we think about money and when we think about legal regulations, regulations and other legislation. We must have sufficient appropriations in this area, and we must have the necessary rules and mechanisms to control quality. In this area, there were many good signals from the Council of State in her speeches earlier in the debate. Traditionally, this is a field where I perceive that there is a lot and broad consensus in Stortinget. But when I read the text of the interpellation from the representative Fallet, I can't get completely out of the idea that the representative wants to use this case to attack private institutions in the field. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have almost fundamentalist resistance to private health and care activities. We in the Progress Party are far more pragmatic. For us, it's not that important whether it's a private institution or a public institution. We are concerned with the quality of the product delivered. If someone delivers expensive and bad, it has to be corrected, whether it's a private or a public institution. We mean per. Today, there is a problematic situation in which the state operates and controls institutions. You could call it a larynx-to-oat bag situation. On the part of the Progress Party, we want to strengthen the control of child protection and institutions, both private and public, through the establishment of free and independent child protection. The Progress Party has put forward proposals for this on a number of occasions in Stortinget. We think that's the way to go to get a quality control in the sector that can lead to that in the future we don't get scandals or reports of doubtful quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e829	I want to commend the representative Fallet for promoting this interpellation. It's an important interpellation. It is important that we keep following the development of child protection. I want to get to grips with what the Council said about the state's child protection system being a competence resource for the municipalities, and angle my contribution to it. There has been a negative trend in child protection in recent years. In 2003, there was an increase in the number of child protection measures that were granted. 4 pst. There is a large increase in the number of messages, and several municipalities indicate that the economy controls the measures. Several municipalities report that the threshold for granting measures is higher than before and that the children against whom measures are taken have more complex problems. It is a serious development in our society that more children need action from child protection, in their care and in their psychiatry. The head of child protection in Fredrikstad tells Fredriksstad Blad that child protection work is linked to the effect of unemployment, drug consumption and social conditions. She also says that she works in a local authority with a pressed economy, and that the list for getting help from them has been laid relatively high, it should have been lowered. It is very serious when the signals from child protection around the municipalities are that the economy controls the measures, not the need. We have had a development in child protection, which SV pointed out strongly during the treatment of new child protection laws, where more and more children need measures outside the home, in foster homes and in institutions. Prevention in the home is not enough. The Children’s Protection Manager tells Fredriksstad Blad that the number of children with child protection measures should be even higher, and that drug use is often the cause of approved interventions. That's what SV pointed out during the treatment of new law. Children should not grow up together with parents who are affected by heavy drug problems. Violence, assault and other things are also incompatible with the best of children. There are now 400 children in line for foster home placement. It's scandalous. These are the children most in need of care. The threshold for being placed in foster homes is very high. This, in turn, makes the problem around the children very complicated when they are finally placed in a foster home. The positions are also not followed up by supervisors, because they are not in the municipalities. Foster homes often fail, and many children go from one foster home to the other. I would say that the government's policy with strong family focus can lead to long-term care failure for many children. What concrete action will the Council of State take to meet this negative development?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e844	The state of child protection has been widely debated and discussed lately, and that is good. The Christian People's Party is very concerned to ensure that all children receive the best possible growth. Here the family is very important. That's why St.meld took. No 40 for 2001–02, on the protection of children and young people, on the basis that the family is the most important framework and resource for children to grow up well. Help from child protection needs to be increasingly provided in cooperation with families. A number of measures are therefore proposed with a focus on strengthening the prevention of family work. The Christian People's Party welcomes the increased support for community action in this year's budget to ensure that more children are well-growthed. The government will increase its efforts to counter life problems and a total of 10 million lives. Extra kroner. The number of separations and divorces in Norway is increasing, and more and more children are affected by parental breakups. In cases where children suffer from care failure, it is important that child protection is equipped to enter and take over early enough where necessary. However, children who have grown up under difficult conditions in the home often find it difficult to be moved from their parents. It is therefore essential that these children meet both love and care and receive good follow-up from child protection. The essential objective is to ensure a high level of legal certainty for children and young people residing in child protection institutions. In recent times, conditions in the history of child protection have been revealed that are serious, especially because this concerns extra vulnerable children. We have to make sure that this doesn't happen again. As part of this objective, a State authorisation system is in place for child protection institutions. In addition, we need to ensure good oversight. The Regulation on the supervision of child protection institutions was amended from 1 January 2004. The county council shall continue to be responsible for the supervision of the child protection institutions. The county council shall also contact the children and explain to them how they can make direct contact with the supervisory authority if they need to. We have to do everything in our power to avoid repeating what has been said in the cruel stories of the Befring report. It is also important to follow up the obligation of municipalities to set up supervisors for children in foster homes. These also need to be well trained. Responsibility for the organisation of such training has now been conferred on the national regional child protection system. The foster homes are, as many have said, the most important measures in the field of child protection. Today it is impossible to imagine a child protection without a solid number of foster homes as supporters. It is therefore worrying that there is a lack of foster homes, especially for those children who are not very young. In order to be able to recruit foster homes, it is important that they are given the skills to ensure that they are safe in the task they are doing. That is exactly why it is so important to ensure the best follow-up of foster homes. Finally, I would just like to comment on something that we know might be a trend. The Children's Guard in Oslo has registered the enquiries they receive. It is worrying to see that there has been a huge change in the types of enquiries you receive. Prior to the child’s behaviour, the parent’s behaviour is the trigger factor.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e863	At the end of this debate, I would like to say that it seems that there is a cross-political consensus that it is important that child protection positions take place in safe and good forms, that the places where we place children who are exposed and who do not have it so well should be safe and well supervised – I feel that the Council of State is following very closely – and not least that those who work there are subject to the Labour Environment Act and have the security of their work situation, so that they can let that safety infect young people. To Ulf Erik Knudsen I would say that one really doesn't have to be paranoid to work here, but it certainly helps. I don't have anything against private institutions, but I therefore demand that the children live under safe conditions. To Dagrun Eriksen I would say that it is not just Christian People's Party that is busy with the family. But the Christian People's Party must recognize that it is actually the home that fails, it is the family that fails. That's why we have this interpolation. Had everything been very well in the family's sluggish cave, we had not had a discussion about child protection locations. Finally, I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough debate. It will be exciting to follow the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family in the future. As mentioned earlier, I have received good feedback that the 26 regional offices are working well as an advisor and provide the individual child-responsor with the assurance that he can get advice. Because it is actually the way in our vast country that it is both large and small municipalities, and it is not always a good environment around child protection workers. So I think this promises well. But I don't want to say that I'm not going to discuss the children's situation in Everyday Norway on many occasions also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e875	That was comforting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e878	Some comments on the previous submissions. In the case of foster homes, we are constantly working on improving access. A major recruitment campaign will be launched in 2005 under the direction of the Directorate. We're also going to have a review of the whole situation to see if we can put in any further action to ensure that children don't wait too long for the right foster home, and we'll also review the situation regarding the follow-up and guidance of foster parents, and not least make sure to keep foster homes that we think are good. In this case, 400 children would be without a foster home, it is wrong. It is 483 children and young people who are registered in a preparatory phase. For 164 of them — we have examined these figures — there is a warning that foster homes are likely to be the right response, but no decision has yet been taken. For 99 an application has been received. The committee has received the matter. Decisions not yet taken. For 142 decisions have been taken on foster homes. Foster homes have been found, but you're in the preparation phase, you're working on the location. Because only 78 decisions have been made, but you haven't been able to find exactly the right foster home within six weeks of the decision being made, as you were supposed to. There is intensive work going on to place these children. A little about youth between 18 and 23 years of age. There is a large increase in interventions for this group. In fact, for young people between 20 and 23 years of age, there has been an increase in measures of 10 pst. from the first half of last year to the first half of this year. In any case, these young people must consent to continuing action. And if they say yes to it, a plan is to be drawn up. These young people also have the right to complain if they do not receive and wish to do so — they may have changed their mind after they have said no, there are also some who do. So you have the right to complain. We want to make this right of appeal more familiar. We are a little uncertain whether everyone knows it well enough, or whether the municipalities largely disclose the right to complain to each young person. So here the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate is doing a job right now. Then I want to answer the representative May Hansen when it comes to so many complaints from the municipalities that they have so many problems. I want to praise the municipalities. In recent years, municipalities have increased efforts in the area of child protection. They're doing a formidable job. Reports for the first six months of this year show that new messages are being implemented in one week in 96 pst. of the cases. At the end of the day, I fully agree with the representative Eirin Fallet that sound and legal working time arrangements are important for all, both residents and staff. There's a work going on with this in terms of our collectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e893	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e901	Then we are ready to vote on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e919	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e926	During the debate Sonja Irene Sjøli put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e934	It is the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party that are behind the vote, so the President assumes that the other parties want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e946	The proposal from the Right and the Centre are addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the question of life-viewing societies/registered religious communities to be addressed by the Government, and to present the matter to the Stortinget.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they now want to support the proposal subsidiaryly, while the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-11-18.ana.ud620e963	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
