ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e85	Very briefly - for the debate has taken place in Stortinget earlier today. I'm just going to take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Centre for the Amendment of the Law in relation to the distribution of dividends.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e92	The representative Grethe Fossli has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e95	I take this into account the proposal by a minority in the Business Committee, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e102	The representative Olaf Gedrem has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 617]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e119	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 617]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e134	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes and the Centre Party, the Left and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e143	It is with joy and some excitement that I stand here as the case rapporteur for Innst. O. No 104 for 2003-2004 on injection rooms. This has been a long process. There have been many objections -- some sensible and some less reasonable in our view. But now the majority, consisting of SV, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, have given the Regeninga marsjordre. Norwegian municipalities should be able to apply for trials with injection rooms from 1 January 2005, and the country should spit in a minimum of 50 pst. of the operating and establishment costs. In addition, we will see the proposal for regulations before the law enters into force. The majority have clear opinions on how the injection rooms should look. The only thing that distinguishes us is the question of whether to inject drugs other than heroin in injection rooms. SV and the Workers' Party believe that it is crucial here not what you have in the brittle area, but that you actually choose to inject the drug. Most, perhaps all, are polydrug users, and for our two batches it is important that injecting drug users have the opportunity to inject under supervision, without stress and in a hygienic environment. What they have in the brittle, is thus subordinate. For the Progress Party, it has been important to limit it to heroin, but not to be completely square - if I can use such an expression. However, our three batches are clear in terms of staffing, staffing tasks, opening hours, space design, user involvement and funding. We promote three important proposals in our position that I address on behalf of the majority. Proposals for funding, for the transparency of the regulation and for the use of injection rooms from 1 January 2005. This means that everything must be in place within that time, so that municipalities who want to do so can set up injection rooms with government grants. We want clear feedback from the Minister of Justice that he intends to follow up on these proposals. We note that the Council of State believes that further legislative changes are needed after the majority have determined that health professionals should fill the injection rooms, and that we believe it should be allowed for users to assist each other with the injection, which they often do today. The fact that the Council of State chooses to bring this about after the matter has been resolved is strange. However, we choose to focus on the positive in this, which is that the Ministry of Justice has done the job a long time ago to get all the pieces in place. Consequently, it should be a simple matter to follow up the decision of the Storting that the injection rooms, as we believe they should look, should be able to be used as of 1 January 2005. The majority believe that the injection rooms, as our batches have decided to design them, could have an important impact on the most worn-out addicts in Norway. These are people who are often struggling with major health problems. As a rule, they do not have a fixed place to live, and they are reached to a small extent by the regular help offer. For many of the future users of injection rooms, injection rooms will be the only drug-free people with whom they come into contact in one day. The Lisbon-based European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addition, one of the 15 decentralised EU offices, conducted a survey of drug injection rooms in 2002 and 2003, which concluded that the injection rooms, when they were intended to reach the group they were going to reach, worn out addicts with different health problems and social problems. Injection rooms offer hygienic environments and reduce the likelihood of infection, at least for regular users. They contribute to a reduction in risk behaviour among users and increase access to health, welfare and drug treatment for specific groups of drug addicts, which are otherwise difficult to reach. They provide immediate help with overdoses and may help reduce the number of overdose deaths. Sickness for this difficult group has contributed to improved health, access to counselling and other therapeutic options. Many have been referred to healthcare, in some cases also to drug treatment. This is not debatable, it is important for the people concerned. However, it is important that injection rooms become a complement to other lowthreshold interventions and to the treatment provision for drug addicts — and not a substitute for any of these. Drug addicts are as many individuals as we are called normal citizens, and the offer must therefore be varied. The need for user advice is important, precisely because their needs vary. A majority of the hearing bodies were in favour of drug injection rooms. This was the case with the Children's Ombudsman, the Health Inspectorate of Oslo and Akershus, the Social and Health Directorate, the County Council of Hordaland, the Municipality of Bergen, the Municipality of Oslo, the University of Oslo, the University of Stavanger, the University of Bergen, the Norwegian Association of Physicians, FO, Fransiskushelpen, the Health Workers' Association, the Health and Social Ombudsman of Oslo, the Church's Bymission, the Church's Social Service, the Criminal Service region south-west, the Criminal Service region west, the Norwegian Association for Criminal Reform, the Norwegian Association of Nurses, the Pro-centre, the National Health Authority, the Criminal Fedestal Organisation in Norway and the Tyril Foundation. I could add that the Oslo branch of the Swedish Federation Against Substance Abuse, LMS, delivered a positive consultation opinion, but that it was not included. Otherwise, there are no police authorities. But I know at least personal police officers who are in favour. They often work in the first line, often in Oslo. When the government proposal became known, a lot of people were very disappointed that it had not been suggested that health professionals should fill the injection rooms. Both the Health and Social Ombudsman in Oslo, the Norwegian Association of Nurses, the Medical Association, the Health Workers' Association and the State Health Authority consider this to be very important. The Health and Social Ombudsman writes in his opinion that they cannot see that there are any provisions of the Health Care Professional Act that prevent health professionals from working in injection rooms. Health professionals feel that it is irresponsible to staff the injection rooms only with social professionals. The Medical Association notes that they find it difficult to understand that the Department does not consider it necessary for health professionals to be present in such acute situations, in which case they refer to any allergic reactions to injection, overdoses, misinjection, bleeding, etc. Health surveillance states that if the health objectives expressed are to be fully met, the injection rooms should be staffed by health professionals. And this wants the majority. The majority assume that injection rooms in which it is established are manned by both health professionals and social professionals. We strongly disagree with the department, which on page 24 of the proposal writes the following: "An injection room will not be a suitable place or measure for individual treatment of the health problems of drug users." In addition, it says: "It shall not, in the view of the Department, be a task for staff to provide specific, individual advice to each user in connection with the injection itself, such as finding a proper injection site." We mean the opposite. The majority are strongly involved in collision courses with the ministry and fully in line with the Norwegian Association of Nurses, which writes the following in its opinion: “Taking care of hygiene principles and providing guidance on proper injecting, finding a proper injection site and preventing complications such as lymphatic infections, ulcers, blood clots, hepatitis and HIV may be the most important staff to help with”. In addition, the majority believe that employees have an important role to play in building trust and relationships and providing social advice and guidance so that some can also find the way further into the other facilities. We, who make up the majority of the Judicial Committee, are concerned that everyone, including those who are addicted to drugs, is entitled to a decent life. What is worthy, and what is unworthy, is difficult to define clearly, because the experience of dignity is subjective. However, it should at least be reasonably clear that having the opportunity to inject heroin into a hygienic room protected by stress and people’s curious and judgmental gaze, where health professionals and social professionals have time to talk to you and the ability to detect complications and possible overdoses, means a better and more worthwhile everyday life than today’s addicts have to thank. In this way, one of the objectives will be achieved already by the establishment of the measure. The majority are concerned that injection rooms should be as accessible as possible. It is important to minimise the bureaucratic nature of the system and to minimise access criteria. Registration of users must be aimed only at facilitating the evaluation of researchers, where comparisons with other low-threshold measures may be relevant, with some of the same target audience. Finally, on the part of the majority, we would like to stress the importance of the inclusion of drug injection rooms users in the whole process of setting up, designing and evaluating injection rooms. Respect for users through belief in their ability to participate and take responsibility increases the possibility of the action being successful. People who meet with respect and a positive view of human beings appear more often than against being trusted worthy of trust. This also applies to those who are addicted to alcohol. In addition, there is an important point that these people are most likely to do much to ensure that this action will be successful. We agree with the department when they write the following on page 31: "The Ministry will believe that users will be detained with actions that will harm the measure and thus also themselves." I would recommend, on behalf of the majority, the proposals for decisions that we have in the vote. I would also ask the Council of State to respond positively, reply yes that he will follow up on the proposals adopted by the Stortinget this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e198	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e201	With a mixture of disclaimer and naivety, the representative Thorkildsen explains much of his commitment to drug injection rooms that drug users are entitled to dignity when injecting and that injection rooms should be a health service for drug users. The government has used a lot of resources to improve the provision of health care to drug users, by expanding the so-called low-threshold provision of health care, which means that drug users have come a step closer to getting the health service that we others take as a matter of course. In addition, the number of persons undergoing drug-based rehabilitation has doubled in recent years. Why does SV also not want to spend resources on this rather than on injection rooms? What makes SV think it is better to provide health services in injection rooms than in lowthreshold health services? And what dignity will SV give to those drug addicts who want health care, when such help is given aside by drug addicts who set their heroin shots?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e210	I don't think either the representative Heieren Hundhammer or I should define what is a worthy life for a addict. Dignity is, as I said, subjective, and in many ways it will also be relative. For drug addicts, it is likely more worthwhile to put the spray in a supervised injection room without having to stress, and where they do not put the brittle under the supervision of people around, than to make it out in the public room. But what I can't understand is that an injection room must necessarily exclude other types of health care. SV has been at the forefront in fighting both fieldwork and other types of interventions to reach drug addicts. But this is a very special group, as has also been pointed out by the EU body that has evaluated this. This is a group that is rarely reached by the other interventions, and that is precisely why an experiment with injection rooms has been proposed, to see if we can reach the group that is otherwise never reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e217	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e220	This debate and this action are coming to an end, especially when what is happening in Oslo is currently happening. There is almost no limit to what kind of power and what kind of action you want from both the police and from the other side will actually take against drug users, measures that do not benefit them at all, and where to a large extent you do not ask any fundamental questions about what society actually does. I'm thinking about the emptying of the Plate that's now happening, and that's happened, where, according to our concepts, you almost have no purpose and meaning in relation to this group, which labors as much as they do in the city, in fact in many ways only makes the problem bigger for those who are taken by the police and also by others. This debate is, to a large extent, about perhaps starting to ask more questions about not just where to chase drug users from, but just where to refer them. And there's every reason to point out that a majority in this room has been eager for a long time to carry out such a pilot project. I refer to the opinion of the Government of Stoltenberg and proposals on this as early as 2001. It seems in many ways that the majority, the arguments, the consensus around this in the various courses of treatment in the Storting has been only more stiff and stiffer, while the implementation and implementation will may seem to have failed all the more. That's why it's the Labour Party's hope that on this occasion, on the part of Stortinget, we actually manage to see that you're clearly serious, and that you also want to go ahead in the process. The rapporteur referred to the proposal for a decision in relation to the timetable. It now appears that in many ways it is the most important decision to initiate it. So a little bit about the background of this action. I want to say right away for my own party, and I think it also applies to the other parties who support this proposal, that this is not a simple measure and a simple decision to fall on. It's not necessarily related to society now wanting to move into an activity -- the use of drugs -- which for a long time has actually been politically chosen to look between its fingers and in that way decriminalise, by moving it indoors. That is not necessarily what constitutes the problem in the case. The problem is that tackling drug problems among both younger and older people is not an easy task. And it's not solved by political decisions in this room. But we can contribute, and we can help make it easier, and in that way this is a valuable attempt at this. There are some arguments about the question of dignity -- the fact that these are people who live today, but who have a massive problem resting on them, and who actually need to get a greater degree of dignity around their own situation. It's not just that these will feel good, but it's also that being able to straighten their backs in such a situation can help make it easier to get further into rehabilitation and further on on a path where you're experiencing a better life, and actually towards being free of sleep. Then it's also nice to see that in recent years you've actually managed to reduce the number of overdose deaths, even though in May, among other things. has had poor experience with overdose in this city. This is an action that can make the response to overdose deaths more active. I would also like to point out that, in the view of the Labour Party, the arguments that now relate to both the signal effect and the question of legalisation are less important. There is no reason to believe that we are now sending out signals to younger people that drug abuse is somewhat more acceptable than it was before we got this type of room. We'll be able to come back to this in this way. Finally, I would also like to point out that, as far as the issue of injection rooms is concerned, we are not referring to this as an action alone. We believe that there is a strong need for strengthening both field-based service and drug prevention in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e239	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e242	The representative Knut Storberget has been known for many years before he landed on the Stortinget, as a highly committed abstinent, who has had many debates on this with a restrictive drug policy. Now he's in favour of a proposal where he's among others. will allow persons in medically assisted rehabilitation to have access to injection rooms. As it says, it's not the staff's job to check who gets into the injection room. A small part of the point of medically assisted rehabilitation is to avoid polydrug use or to avoid side abuse. So it opens up here for that type of use, and no one is going to control the amount of matter, etc. There are a number of abstinence organisations that have opposed this proposal, and my question to the representative Knut Storberget is: how can he defend eroding the methadone use system in this way, by opening up such access in injection rooms?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e249	I do not believe that this proposal will at all open up what the representative of Greece is asking about. What this proposal challenges us is where control should lie in relation to the kind of polydrug abuse that he here points to. The majority have had a clear feeling that the injection room itself is not a clear place to operate these control activities. However, I do not see that this bill should be corroborated by the conditions that now exist in relation to medically assisted rehabilitation. So I think that actually stands firm. As for the question of my background, as far as it may be of any interest, I would like to say that those who have been active in relation to the drug field have a rather divided view on this issue. It's perfectly clear. That's what I think is peripheral. What is important for many of us who have been active in relation to the drugs field is, in fact, that it is also in solidarity with those who are harmed by drugs. Many of us have struggled over the years to be persecuted by the police and punished, while they should have help and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e257	The representative Knut Storberget defeia that this proposal could have any meaning for children and young people. Then I feel that the representative jumps smoothly over the effect that we often call the signal effect. I would like to ask a question in relation to the signals we send to children and young people when we give a public stamp of approval on this. We have said in the past: we do not want children and young people to drive. But now the Labour Party chooses to put a public approval stamp on this. And in relation to motivation to become drug free, how can a person expect drug addicts to be motivated to become drug free when we accept this by creating public injection rooms? Then a person can ask himself the question of who his dignity is at last talking about. Is that our own, or is it the dignity of drug users we have seen in focus?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e262	I believe that both the general prevention and the signal effect in relation to the measures that society sends out through the other policy are well on its own, and that it does not depend on the police both persecutors and dogs and, ultimately, on the convictions of those who have to use drugs inside these spaces. Norwegian youth is significantly restricted in relation to illicit drugs. Over 90 pst. by Norwegian youth chooses not to use stronger drugs than hashish -- we're talking about that 70-80 pst. They don't even use hashish - and it's not because we have criminal laws against drug users. There's plenty of movies and experiences in everyday life that show that it's a life we don't want. I am convinced that Norwegian youth is not dependent on us to prosecute the most exhausted in Oslo Centre. Where has the Christian People's Party been in relation to the distribution of syringes? The police refuse to persecute them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e269	I am concerned about the signal power this will give, especially in relation to what is believed to be the international game rules here. Among other things, the UN Monitoring Centre for the Implementation of the Narcotic Convention has stated that the introduction of injection rooms would be contrary to the Narcotic Convention and a foundation strongly involved in the drug problem, the Rusnet Foundation, says the same and is in principle opposed to this pilot scheme. To quote their hearing notes: "We consider this proposal to be a mere legalisation of heroin use. Why should Norway introduce such a measure as the first Nordic country?" That's also my question here. There are many other measures that should be implemented before steps are taken to establish injection rooms, in the opinion of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e279	I think it's dangerous to have a debate on the prevention and treatment of drug problems and almost just a thought in your head at a time. This is the debate that I am most often involved in, and I think it is actually the most difficult debate in relation to the fact that we have to keep more thoughts in mind at once. There are a lot of measures, and some may seem a little contradictory. It is not a question of forgetting what is restrictive drug policy, prevention, etc. I believe that if we are to be able to maintain such a restrictive both alcohol and drug policies in Norway, we are, in fact, dependent on creating legitimacy around that policy, and that means that it does not hit the weakest and most support too hard. If we continue that line, it will affect the overall restrictive drug policy. Among other things, I think that this is the case. The representatives of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party should take note. On the issue of the international commitments associated with this action by Norway, I think that the Ministry and the Proposition have a very good discussion of this. It fully accedes to the Workers' Party; it does not conflict with the obligations we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e286	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e289	In June 2003, the Government ordered the Government to submit proposals for changes to the legislation opening up injection rooms. When the Stortinget now examines the proposal for a test scheme with injection rooms, the Right will not support the establishment of injection rooms during the year’s treatment. Nor does the right support the bulk of the population who liberalise the Government’s proposal in critical areas. What measures should society take to reduce drug consumption and improve the health status of drug addicts? Unfortunately, on this issue, a majority of Stortinget answers that the solution is to introduce injection rooms. The creation of drug injection rooms raises a number of ethical and social issues that are not yet seen. On a principle basis, the Right believes that it gives a wrong signal that the authorities in this way demonstrate their acceptance for the use of illegal and highly harmful substances. We must not give up the ambition to help the heaviest abusers into another life. That is why I was a little surprised when the representative Storberget from the pulpit said instead that the police persecute and dogs are drug addicts. The police are doing their job in my opinion. They enforce Norwegian law, a law that we have passed here in Stortinget. None of the Nordic countries have injection rooms, but tests have been carried out in other European countries. The effectiveness of these trials is difficult to measure, and research in this area does not provide any clear conclusion that there is a clear impact on morbidity and mortality among injecting room users. It may seem that the majority are pushing the drug addicts in the vanguard to carry out their own political experiment. The representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said in Stortinget on 21 June 2002: "The working party wants to learn more about whether drug injection rooms as one of several lowthreshold measures can contribute to increasing human dignity for those drug addicts. We are aware that this is not a simple matter, and there are many arguments against allowing injection rooms. However, an overall consideration suggests that we need to gain experience with injection rooms. We have to do that through a few, well-organized and well-thought-out attempts." The majority are talking about dignity, but what dignity are you really concerned about, the drug addicts or the passersby? The ethical concerns are even greater as the majority of the population add up to government sub-financing of injection rooms. How can the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party defend the State's financing of the operation of premises that facilitate the use of substances in the same state? An evaluation report from a pilot project with injection rooms in Australia concluded that the injection room had no effect on overdose rates in the area. The decrease in overdoses in Australia is largely attributed to the reduction in heroin supply. The injection room had no effect on the number of cases of HIV, hepatitis B or C virus in the area. The establishment of spray rooms shall be carried out as a test project. But what are the criteria for describing the experiment as successful? The right is convinced that setting up injection rooms is not a suitable tool for reducing drug consumption and improving the health status of drug addicts, but that, on the contrary, it can help to maintain abuse. Instead, the main strategy must be to provide treatment that can lead to drug-free treatment and to provide low-threshold health services that have as their primary objective the reduction of the adverse effects of drug abuse. As a result of the drug reform, the Government has ensured better access for drug users to the necessary healthcare services. The establishment of low-threshold health services has played a major role in the life situation of drug users and has helped to halve overdose deaths in the last two years. The government has also strengthened the commitment to medically assisted rehabilitation. Further expansion of these services, together with increased treatment capacity and rehabilitation, is in the Right’s view the best way to help the heavy drug addicts. Even trailers of spray rooms have reason to be alarmed by the positions of the opposition parties in this case. Among other things, the Labour Party and the Left Party refuse to limit the use of injection rooms to injecting heroin. The opening of drug use and polydrug use will mean that groups of users other than the most outpatient drug users become drug injectors. In addition, opening up several types of drugs to drug injection rooms will represent a higher health risk for users. The Labour Party, SV and the Advance Party will further demand that health professionals be present in the injection room. Immediately you might think that this would provide a better health care for drug users. In reality, it's the opposite that's the case. The Government, in its proposal for the Storting, has proposed a co-location of injection rooms and lowthreshold health measures. Individual health care should be provided at this low threshold of health care. A main consideration behind this is to provide contact setting and motivation for treatment. If the requirement to co-locate with low-threshold health measures is to be replaced by a requirement for personnel in injection rooms to have health education, the provision of services to users is clearly lower than the government’s proposal. For the Right, it is absolutely essential that we do not destroy the targeted work that is being done to strengthen the care of the drug, and that gives clear results. The establishment of injection rooms is unfortunately a step in the wrong direction. Instead, we should continue to strengthen treatment provision, rehabilitation and low-threshold health services for drug users.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e326	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e329	What made me want to ask the representative a question is that we are now trying to draw up some ethical boundaries. It seems that it is now claimed that the majority is out on the ethical level, when we now open up this type of injection room, that there is a dramatic difference between what we are now opening up to and what is the situation today. It is, in particular, that the state should grant, which is supposed to be so very bad. Who is providing grants to those who currently distribute free syringes? Isn't that the state? Who is providing health care grants that provide guidance on how to inject syringes? Who owns the reason where the syringes are put today? In principle, the government has been in favour of injection rooms, i.e. allowing an illegal substance to be legally introduced. It's okay as long as it's a socionomist who's in charge, but if it's a nurse, it's going to be wrong. Where do the delicate ethical boundaries of the Right in this matter go?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e338	It is not a major point for me that the state should not go in with funds. What matters to me is, in fact, that the state uses the resources on something that we know works. It is more important to me that we spend money on good low-threshold services, that we provide good rehabilitation services, and that drug addicts have an opportunity to get out of a everyday life where drugs dominate their lives. I'm against the government going into drug injection rooms, where drug users are going to sit and watch other drug users inject. I rather want us to spend our money giving drug users a decent life and an opportunity to get out of their drug abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e345	Marking your own position is important for a politician. The representative of Hofstad does a very good job there. On the morning of Friday 4 June, she was out on the TV 2 news and presented her right-wing opinion in relation to the issue of injection rooms. What's interesting is that what she said on the TV 2 news is not included in the attitude of the minority in the committee. So the right-hand side has prefected two different visions. The representative, Mr Hofstad, said on the news on TV 2 on 4 June, was among other things. the establishment of injection rooms was contrary to UN drug conventions. If that is what the representative of Hofstad and Right believes, why has it not been written in the form of a note? Is there something you only go out with in the media, so you have one point of view there, and then you have a completely different point of view when it comes to the reality of the Biggest?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e352	I think the representative Ellingen must better follow the TV 2 news on a later occasion, because what he says here does not lead to correctness. What I was commenting on was the radical and liberal proposal that is now underpinned and supported by a majority, namely the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party. It is a radical proposal that is very far from what the Government proposes. I said this could be contrary to the UN Convention on Narcotic Drugs, and I look forward to seeing the conclusions. I would focus more on good lowthreshold services and better rehabilitation than using resources in injection rooms, as we are now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e360	The representative, Linda Cathrine Hofstad, asks how we can enforce the ban on drug use when we propose that the state co-finance the injection rooms. Then I have to ask the representative of Hofstad: is there a right against the distribution of syringes? Is it right to advise on dosage when heroin becomes cleaner? What in the world did Right mean when former State Secretary Jørn Holme in the evening post of 17 January 2003 gave clear notice, almost an order, to the police to lie away from the worn-out drug addicts, because this clearly had the opposite effect on them and could not help them? Is the right really as pure and as pure as the representative Linda Cathrine Hofstad expresses here? Or does the Right also see that it can be an advantage to approach this in a slightly more pragmatic way?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e367	In the right we have a principle approach to this matter, but we have also been pragmatic in our approach to the matter. What it's all about for us is that when it's up to the users themselves to define the user dose, you actually let the injection room become a haven where you put doses whenever you want, you can put the drug you want, and we take that very far away from it. In fact, it is also a very long way from what the government suggested, namely that it should only be heroin, and that it should only be one user dose. That's why there's a completely different proposal that the majority is now in favour of; users should be allowed to define and carry with them the substance they want, into the injection room, and to set the dose they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e374	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e377	The question of introducing a three-year trial scheme with injection rooms has been a difficult one for many of us - perhaps not least in the Progress Party. But at the end of the day, this is about how to preserve human dignity for some of those who have the most difficulty in society: the heavy heroin users. What we do is simply to admit that we have a social problem -- a problem that none of us can pretend that doesn't exist. As long as we walk out in this town or elsewhere, we see that the problem exists. In particular, Plata has been a clear characteristic of the social problems we have with heroin users and others who use drugs. They'll put their shots, no matter where we want them to do it, whether they do it in full publicity, in portraits, in schools, universities or similar places. Those of us who have gone past Plata, must really admit that what's happening there, is not good. It does not look good, and it is not good for those who are affected either. So we have a common responsibility to do something about it. I think it's utopian to believe that we can get a society without substance problems. Unfortunately, this is a reality. Although many of us to those degrees are opponents of substance, I think we have to take in the reality. Our job is to fight it legally, but as I said, I don't think we're able to stop it. We see the problem in prisons, which may be some of the most controllable institutions we have. Even there we have overdose deaths, and that says a lot about how challenging and difficult it is to deal with these kinds of problems. It is also likely that many heroin users are both victims and perpetrators themselves. They are perpetrators because they consume and buy drugs, but they are also victims of cynical backers who profit from total addiction, for example. Heroin. Although it may be said that this is largely self-imposed, it is also true that for example. heroin use develops over time to become a disease. And then the question is, according to my understanding, shouldn't you give these people a dignity, as long as that's possible? Should it be that these people have to expose their entire disease because society will not accept it and will not do anything about it. The same applies to other drug problems. For example: Alcohol and that kind of thing, at least I perceive that there's a greater recognition and a greater willingness to take it inward and try to do something about it. So I'm going to end up with the question: why should we leave the heroinist on the street? For us, it's important to try to find a solution where you practice an equidistant. One of the other aspects of this issue is the ability to use the injection room as a gateway to other facilities and health services that society should and should offer to this group. Although there is a need for more treatment sites in some places, there is actually some. And then it's probably also that these addicts are entitled to health care and other help like us, and like the rest of us. Although drug users may often not be able to claim their rights, they have the right to do so. That is why, in the Progress Party, we now have to try to contribute to it through this pilot scheme. We believe that an injection room can be a place where you can get in touch with the public utility, not just the police - a place where they might get enough self-respect back and perhaps through this action would like to try to break out of the drug hell they are actually in. If we do this by reducing the number of overdose deaths, the measure has had its mishaps and in any case has done a job for us. We've had, and I think we all agree on that, too many overdose deaths lately. That's why we have obligations to intervene and seek to make changes where it's going to be decent - for them, for the relatives and for society as a whole. So it's an obligation to try to help these people. Something else would be too cynical. This is a test scheme and it shall be evaluated. I'm disappointed that some parties won't even try this. I respect their view, and I respect the fact that there is disagreement in this, but at least the Progress Party has come to the conclusion that we have to try. When we see the problems that otherwise exist, we must recognise that today’s drug policy is not good enough. When the measures we have are not good enough, I think we are obliged to try others out. These include: on the basis of this, that we want the injection rooms to be staffed with health professionals to assist, and not just with socionomists or other professional groups. Some say that an injection room scheme is an acceptance or legalisation of drugs. At least that doesn't mean I'm signed. Syringe rooms are just a place where you shouldn't be punishable. Drug use is and must continue to be a criminal offence, and it will in fact also be a criminal offence in the injecting room, but the difference is that there will be no criminal prosecution here if you do. For me, it's important to point this out. It's by deciding what's a criminal act, that society gives a signal, or shows its attitude and shows what you want and don't want. That is why it is important for us that there should be a freedom of punishment in relation to this. When we looked at what used to happen on Plata, it may not be a question of whether it was the case that you had a greater acceptance for heroin abuse, because that's where you've had it for a long time. Those games that don't go in for this today have been able to go past and look at what's happening down there for a long time. The question might be rhetorical, but still, can it get any worse than it was there? This has also been a debate on the type of drug to be accepted in drug injection rooms. If someone has been or is in doubt about where the Progress Party is standing, we have said that it should apply to pure heroin users. At the same time, we have also said that if a person makes a mistake and uses a mixture, this does not mean that he should be excluded automatically. It's probably the way these people work enough as they do. And if they want an aid to try to get out of it, then we have a commitment to give it to them. And then excluding them automatically seems to be having a bad human vision, and it won't be in line with the intention in this. That is why it must be given a practical nourishment. There have been debates before today in this Chamber, where we have discussed criminal prevention measures. There are, among other things: The Progress Party promoted a comprehensive Document No. Eight proposals to combat repeat crime. In addition, one of the other points we proposed was that more attention should be paid to the treatment of addicts who are also criminals, and unfortunately most of them. Because it's well that many of these strictly want to get out of the problem, but it looks like it's hard to believe that you're actually locked up in a life situation that you don't even have the ability to break out of. At that time, we believe that it should perhaps be such that more attention should be paid to the use of coercive measures in order to start at all a process in which one seeks to help them out of the hell that drug abuse is. But as I said, when it comes to that piece, we're left alone. Finally, I should just like to clarify the point of view of the Advance Party. The rapporteur was quite clear about this: for the majority of the Committee, of which the Progress Party is part, it is a prerequisite that the Minister should ensure that the position of the majority is respected so that this system can be implemented from 1 January 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e421	It is very good that the Advance Party does not agree to allow polydrug use in injection rooms. That's right very happy. But what I'm surprised about is that the Progress Party agrees that the addicts themselves should be able to take as much drugs as they want in the injection room, and that the injection room is now a haven for drug use. It surprises me that the Progress Party is in favour of it, and also that the Progress Party is inhibiting the police from doing their work, and from fighting crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e426	It is such that this matter has probably challenged more parties than ours in relation to what we have debated tonight. When it comes to taking doses and what you need yourself, most of us do well to know and appreciate what you need. When the representative of Hofstad is going to a party at Klebu, I expect that she herself is able to assess what she is going to bring with her. Similarly, I think that those who are in this phase of life and with the problems they face, themselves are the best ones to assess what they need in order to be able to live through one more day. And that might be the case with several of us, without mentioning the name. I think we're going to leave this to the one who knows it the best, and then we're going to take things in retrospect. But I really hope that it is not such that the representative Hofstad is satisfied with today's situation. I'm surprised that the Right won't help at least try to improve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e435	So today, the majority in this room are in favour of a three-year trial scheme in relation to injection rooms. The representative of Ellingen stressed that there was a testing scheme and that this testing scheme should be evaluated. When it comes to the fact that in all the areas and fields that the representative drew up in his post, and what has been drawn from the majority in this room, there will be a positive effect if an established injection room is established, then it has been shown not to join the testing schemes that we know from Europe and Australia. The report from Australia shows that there were 329 overdose deaths in the injection room. There was no reduction in HIV cases, nor could one see any effect on hepatitis B or hepatitis C virus. I then wonder what kind of criterion this test scheme should be evaluated for. What kind of criterion is it possible to measure and for which this scheme is to be evaluated?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e442	I am, of course, pleased with the concern of the Christian People's Party for the knowledge and qualities of the Advance Party. I'd like to take it with me. Questions are asked about the positive effect and that it is wrong for the Progress Party to support it. Yes, with all possible respect, it is possible that it is. But we can't afford not to try it out, because when I go to Karl Johan - and when I went past Plata earlier - and see some of the people lying there, I'm not particularly impressed with the existing practice in this area. If the Christian People's Party is satisfied, I understand that you're standing there. But the Progress Party is not satisfied, and we've taken on board the fact that things aren't working well enough, and then we have a commitment, not least based on respect for them, to try new solutions, new alternatives. But it's going to be done under public control, under official control. And we hope and believe that when health professionals are present, as the majority have explained, they should be there, that it could have a positive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e449	Of course, one can have nothing but respect for the desire of the Progress Party to try new things with regard both to the fight against drugs and to make the situation easier for drug users. But what is alarming in this case is that one forgets to see that this experiment has actually been carried out in some other European countries and in Australia, and the experience from there suggests that it is not necessary to postpone Norwegian drug addicts for the same experiment. We should rather use these resources to do what works. But what is my question is: How can the Progress Party open up so that as long as users themselves are able to define the dose of the user, this will in reality be a haven for drug trafficking, where the police do not have the same opportunity as today to fight drugs, which the Progress Party has been engaged in in the same way as the Right, and that this is an important contribution in terms of financing serious crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e457	I thank you again for the challenge. You shouldn't say no to a good challenge. The representative, Höie, says this has been tried out. Yes, that's absolutely true, and it's been a variable feedback experience. At the same time, I think you should see things in a local and a national context, and I don't think that the experience from another country is automatically transferable here. I don't think so. And then I'm also counting on the composition of what kind of regime you made around a trial plan. So I'm not so worried about this. I think, among other things, that by having health professionals present, it could help and, hopefully, make this a good response. When it comes to combating this with drugs and dosages, etc., I record that there is a problem today. It's going to be a problem tomorrow. It may be a problem in two years. But the Progress Party has concluded that we are willing to take the responsibility of trying this out, as opposed to the Right, which is obviously satisfied with today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e466	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e469	The debate on injection rooms should not be conducted with sloping certainty. There are innumerable conflicting but equally well-meaning and sincere considerations that apply. The need for dignity for addicts is used, for example: in the debate, so far both by opponents and trailers of spray rooms. I am not a moment in doubt that everyone who participates in the discussion is sincere in their desire to do something good for the heaviest drug addicts. Therefore, I would urge serious and respect for different views on the issue of injection rooms. I am against the establishment of injection rooms. It is also the Christian People's Party. It's a position that I've had doubts about, but I still think it's the right one. I am convinced that a well-developed lowthreshold service as well as a programme of action is the most important offer to ensure that drug users have a decent life and an opportunity to get out of drug abuse. Injecting drug use is not, in my opinion, an appropriate instrument for reducing drug use and improving the health status of drug addicts. The community should provide treatment that can lead to abstinence and provide low-threshold health services that aim primarily at reducing the adverse effects of drug abuse. Injecting drug use will not be a targeted measure to improve the health status of drug users, but could, on the contrary, help to maintain abuse. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is wrong to facilitate drug abuse by creating injection rooms. Drug injecting really involves some legalisation of drug use, and signals that society accepts drug abuse by facilitating such abuse. I'm afraid this can help recruit more people to the drug settings. The Christian People’s Party is also concerned about the signals given to drug users by injection rooms. I think society through the establishment of injection rooms makes it clear that we are giving up helping the heaviest drug addicts, that we are becoming indifferent, and the worst thing you can do to a fellow human being is to show indifference. I am also concerned about implementing a sample scheme of injection rooms where there is no evidence to suggest that injection rooms have no positive effect. In addition, there is little evidence of the effects of injection rooms. The majority also did not specify the measurement criteria against which the test project is to be evaluated. I'm afraid that the majority, through the creation of injection rooms, are conducting attempts on the weakest of society as a response. This is serious and very worrying. The government is promoting Ot.prp. No 56 for 2003–04, as requested by the Stortinget, a proposal for a moderate model for setting up injection rooms. I would like to commend the Minister of Justice and his staff for having designed the best possible model for the establishment of injection rooms, given the prerequisites. However, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the SV go much further in their majority position. The Working Party and SV disregard the proposal that injection rooms should be reserved for those injecting heroin and will allow polydrug use in injection rooms. This establishes an injection room system which must be said to be destructive to a treatment facility. The working party and SV want the room to be open to all over 18 years of age who define themselves as ‘heavy drug addicts’, and they do not want to limit the amount of drugs allowed in the injection room to one user dose. Through such a radical approach, I am afraid that the injection room could become a place for drug trafficking. In addition, the need to staff the injection room with health professionals and to empower them to guide the drug injection itself. The drug addicts shall be allowed to assist each other in the injection itself. I am deeply concerned about the ethical issues that result from health care professionals being able to guide the injection itself. I think that the health follow-up of the drug addicts can best take place in a low-threshold health service located in that case wall in the wall with the injection room. It is important, however, that the main issue is agreed among the opponents and advocates of injection rooms, as the representative of Storberget mentioned earlier this evening. Injecting drug use should not be a substitute for drug treatment or other lowthreshold services. Such a common platform commits to continue to invest in offers that could lead to drug independence and a life of "freedom" for former drug addicts. I hope that, in the future, we will be able to stand together to strengthen measures that act as prevention and treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e503	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e506	This matter is about to take a strange turn. There is evidence that injecting rooms are opposed, while there is no one in this room who will assume that the police are acting on the Plate against a heavy heroin addict who injects. We actually have a situation where drug addicts put their shots without society responding to it, and so we have actually accepted it. It is important to have health professionals in these injection rooms, because if this is so bad that you put too much of a dose and the accident is out, or if a drug addict who comes in is in such a state of health that he needs both guidance and health care, then we have an arena that is really low for these people and where they can actually get guidance. This is important. My question to the representative Marthinsen relates to user doses and the size of user doses: How can you control and tell the size of the individual user dose? It depends on the history of drug abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e515	This article testified to the uncertainty that is currently associated with the injection rooms. The representative of the Progress Party himself wishes to stress how problematic it is to operate on the individual’s own definition of this, or is it the opinion of the Advance Party that health professionals are required to prescribe the amount of the user dose. In other words, will it be left to society to tell you how much user dose you are allowed to put? The problem, as I see it, is that by creating injection rooms, where several drug users should be able to be together to help each other, the individual judgement and the illegality that we want to prevent is just opening up. The proposals of the Progress Party do not cover this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e524	We know that there are different injection cultures from place to place, but there are also different types of injections among drug users in Oslo. Heroin is injected, but amphetamines are also injected. Some inject diacepam preparations as they crush, other flunipam or other preparations. Some of these medicines also mean that if the dose is too high you will stop breathing and it is difficult to control the doses. Can Marthinsen explain to us here the logic that you think that if you're going to get to such a space, it's going to be heroin and it's the ingredient that should define that you should be able to use space -- not other drugs, and, as we know, most people can use one substance once and another time. What is the logic of that? And what is the logic that you think you shouldn't have access to health professionals there and then, when you know that some of these injections can just lead to a respiratory arrest there and then once you've injected yourself?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e531	The logic lies in the fact that the Christian People's Party is opposed to the establishment of injection rooms, because it is precisely these issues that we think are difficult and that we believe we should not help to legitimize. I am fully aware that different types of drugs are being used and that this is being done differently. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that our offer to those drug addicts is not to give them even better opportunities to stay in their abuse, but that we have low-threshold offers that can help them out of drug abuse. We have fought for that so far, and we will fight for it in the future. In that I hope that we can also have SV with us. The logic is not that we defend the use of heroin; we oppose the use of injection rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e538	At the latest today, I was down at the Church's Bymition at the Meeting Place and at the Rusmitteletaten, and had conversations with so-called tired addicts in connection with the fact that there was soft cake distribution because we are now going to decide to set up injection rooms. What they said there was that within an injection room you have the advantage that you can test out less user doses than you normally use, because you can just put them without that stress and the pressure that you usually experience out in the public room, where you are afraid that the police or other addicts will take away from a rest. So you can try out smaller user doses, and that has to be an advantage. The representative Marthinsen and the Christian People's Party are not logical in their argument, at least not if it is so that the Christian People's Party too, for example. is for the distribution of pure syringes, and if the Christian People's Party is also for the distribution of condoms, because I know that the Christian People's Party wants to criminalize whores. Does the Christian People’s Party feel that this is wrong? Should you be completely principled, or should you stick your finger in the ground and see what the world is like out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e545	The boldness of the representative Thorkildsen is at least nothing in the way. I do not doubt for a moment that she has spoken with a strong addict. Personally, for nine years I have worked in one of the largest organisations in Norway dealing with drug users, with both alcohol abuse, polydrug use and drug abuse, so I actually allow myself to believe that I have some competence in this area. It means, as I said at the outset, that I don't think it's easy to decide on this matter, because I feel care for these people! Many of them are my friends, I care about them! And the Christian People's Party cares about them! But we don't think this solution that's being put on the table is the solution to their problem, and we don't think this increases their dignity. Otherwise, I don't think anything special about the blending of the regiments that Thorkildsen's representative did.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e554	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e558	The Central Party does not have a member of the Judicial Committee, and therefore we are not in the committee's position, but we have submitted our comments as an opinion of the Social Committee. We are referring to the fact that we support the members of the Committee on Justice from the Right and the Christian People's Party in this position and that we will vote against the proposal for a testing scheme with injection rooms. That's right, like, for example. The representative, Mr Marthinsen, pointed out that the debate on injection rooms should not be conducted with an obscurity. In particular, the debate on drug abuse and the treatment of such abuse must not be conducted with certainty. I'm relatively certain, on behalf of the Center Party, in relation to the injection rooms. Experience from other countries in Europe, and also from Australia, shows that injection rooms are not sedentary, sedentary, and that - as was somewhat warned in the hearing of the Social Committee on drug injection rooms, methadone treatment, etc. --we can help extend an abuse and actually confirm an abuse with some of these openings. I am also quite sure that what the UN Monitoring Board on the Implementation of the Narcotic Convention says is something we should listen to in this round. Injecting rooms will be contrary to the Narcotic Convention, and will - as some user organisations have at least pointed out, and also, among other things. Justice - could be seen as a mere legalisation of drug use. I'm really afraid of that signal effect. Drug abusers are struggling, and they must be helped and not ignored, as has been said in the debate here before. That's absolutely right. The State shall assume its responsibilities, assume its responsibilities and use resources to help drug users. But abstinence must be the ideal goal! Health care through lowthreshold services, treatment guarantees similar to those of the other sick, and rehabilitation services must be provided by drug users. In the area of rehabilitation assistance, medically assisted rehabilitation must also be provided, but, not least, good and genuinely credible housing, education, work, social support and networks must be provided. Networking and resources are important to eliminate drug abuse. I am afraid of the signal effect also in relation to the fact that the injection room can be seen as a haven in relation to use and abuse. The state will assume its responsibilities, and drug abuse services are not good enough in Norway today. It doesn't work well enough in any way, and then it's probably the three committee areas that are grouped here today, which have the greatest responsibility, namely justice, social and health. We have to be willing to bet more, among other things. within LAR, more resources are needed there. And in the case of Rusreform II, which has recently been adopted in Stortinget, it needs to be strongly adjusted to the grey zone problem created, and the lack of resources both in the state and in the municipality because of the poor economy of the municipalities. I am quite sure that a low threshold of health services with medically assisted rehabilitation and some of these things that should lead to less drug use in the long term is the most important thing. I'm very skeptical about what's happening now, that health legislation gets full effect inside the injection rooms. Finally, I should just like to remind you of the letter sent by the Minister of Justice on 3 June, where he, among other things, says: "With the short time available, the Ministry of Justice has not been able to address the questions raised by the Ministry of Health here. However, the proposed system of health professionals seems to be so complicated that I strongly advise against a design in line with the proposal in Document No. 8:18 [[2003-2004]] The document has been processed in Stortinget today and has been reviewed here. I would warn against this, because it gives so many complex conditions and also so many legal situations that it is very worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e582	I want to start my article by going back in time. In June 1999, the Left supported a call for proposals from the Labour Party and the Progress Party to address the issue of injection rooms. We knew that our daring government partners, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, were opposed. The Labour Party took over the government responsibility in March 2000. But nothing happened to this matter. When the year 2000 ended, cold statistics showed that 327 people had died of overdose. In the spring of 2001, the Left proposes a crisis programme against the overdose epidemic. One of the measures taken was the creation of injection rooms. The party of progress was the only party that whole-heartedly supported us. The late Minister of Social Affairs Guri Ingebrichtsen stated that the case was being dealt with in the department for the purpose of finalisation in the summer. The Socialist Left signaled strong opposition to this proposal. The left was in a hurry. We decided that if we were to return to government after the 2001 elections, Russorga would be a priority. The Labour Party was pleased with its efforts. We got a plus 16 million. kr in the revised national budget for 2001. When the Cooperation Government presented its first budget, the 2002 budget, which was a sort of revision of the government of Stoltenberg in October 2001, we added to an additional 71.5 million. kr. And that there was a need for increased efforts, yes, it shows the number of overdose deaths, which increased from 337 in 2000 to record height 338 in 2001. Both in the 2003 and 2004 budgets, the Co-operation Government has increased its efforts to provide our drug addicts with the help they need. The bet for low-threshold measures will increase from 8 million. SEK in the budget of Jens Stoltenberg to SEK 43.4 million. DKK in 2004. Reorganisation of drug services, patients’ rights and the right to an individual level are also measures to assist. So has it shown results? Yes, the number of overdose deaths is almost halved. In 2003, there were 172 overdose deaths. Of course, the left's goal is no death, and at the same time we think that no one should stand in line to get help to get out of their drug abuse. We're going to have an auxiliaries where you're going to get help right away. So to the point we're dealing with today. I have rarely seen any comments that explain in detail the contents of an injection room. With all due respect for the Judicial Committee, but it was such that I was actually looking for whether the Storting should have an opinion about the curtain election. For the Left, the “spray room” has had the following content: A place where our most worn-out drug addicts will be able to come in and see their syringes. A help offer in connection with other low-threshold services, such as a heating stove, a health centre, a place where you could turn to to get help on what you need. Many of our most worn-out drug addicts have trusted the auxiliaries, after they have met demands and stigmatisation for many years. An injection site may be the one that can give them confidence, a place where they can take care of wounds and perhaps an offer that for the first time gives them confidence in the auxiliaries and motivation to seek help to get out of their drug abuse. That's why Left thinks this should be an offer to our most worn-out drug addicts. In that we wanted injection rooms co-located to low-threshold healthcare, we believe that the need for access to healthcare professionals is met by the fact that these staff will stay in the neighbouring room. Now that I have read the plural comments, I am quite surprised at what I call a lack of thought for different consequences and different dilemmas. Several people would like to be able to take the amount of substance involved, even if it is expected to be used during a visit to the injection site. Also, one does not want to exclude participants in LAR. This can actually be associated with and increase the risk of overdose in injection rooms. The majority at the same time believe that the addict can receive concrete, individual counselling in connection with the injection itself. If an overdose occurs, perhaps with death as an exit, should the personnel be responsible for this? And when one thinks that users should be allowed to help each other with the injection itself, can one become responsible for the health damage that the other gets? I record that a number of people believe this, but they do not propose concrete changes to the promises that clarify responsibilities. The representative of Thorkildsen stated that it is subordinate to what they have in the brittle. There is a great difference between what Mr Ballo said in the debate on SV on 5 June 2001 and what he said on this subject. The left will vote against the B and C proposals in the configuration, but for proposal D. We support the government's proposals for changes of promise. This government doesn't need any marshalls to help our heavy drug addicts. This government shows that it prioritizes them.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e628	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e631	Of course, if an overdose is taken by a user, the health-care professional responsible for managing the injection room shall not be responsible. Users have to take responsibility for injecting heroin, as they do at the request of the majority. But all the health services that have been affected by the hearing have been very clear that they want to provide concrete guidance and concrete advice. They actually believe that it would be unheard of not to do this. Is it true that the Left believes that if someone who works in this injection room sees that an addict is in the process of injecting total errors, so that it must lead to an abscess, for example. is it about to be muscled, should you not intervene and give other types of advice? What is it about the Left that allows the party to raise itself to the degrees above all the professional advice that has come in connection with this treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e638	The representative of Thorkildsen now says that of course health professionals should be there and they should advise. Yes, but health professionals also have their courts. Then one goes over to another law. In fact, I think that the Justice Committee should ask for a ruling and put forward proposals for changes to the law that clarify the responsibilities; that health professionals will not actually be held responsible if they are involved and provide advice and guidance if they see someone there taking an overdose. For us, it's not important whether there's health professionals present in that room. For us, it is important that health professionals are present in this low-threshold service, which can guide and help our drug addicts. In the committee setting it is said that there should be bright rooms, there should be health professionals present, and one should have conversational groups. We actually see a low-threshold offer with a room where it's possible to put syringes, but everything else is actually in the vicinity and it gives a whole range of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e647	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e650	It's a time for everything. Sometimes it's a time to cultivate the disagreement, but it can also be a time to reflect on what we actually agree and disagree on. I think that so far in this debate we are exaggerating the disagreement. It is claimed that Odelstinget today will go considerably beyond what the Government has proposed. I want to reflect a little bit on it. The most important thing is that both the Government and the majority agree that we should establish a legal room where an illegal substance could be put. I do not doubt that part of the government parties is very skeptical to go so far, but the government has at least chosen to promote this, after a mild pressure from the Stortinget. This is the really heavy, primal piece of it all. And we agree that we should establish a legal room for an illegal substance. Then there is a debate about what kind of drug you should be allowed to inject into the injection room. There is a disagreement, but the fact is that the majority supports the Government. In that area, Odelstinget does not go significantly beyond what the Government has proposed. The majority in Odelstinget supports the Government. However, the Progress Party says that there is a lot of polydrug use here, and the Government is asked to have a practical approach. I have faith that the government will. So it's said that there's a lot of disagreement about the user's dose, about how much drugs the drug users can bring in. That's what the majority says: "The majority believe that the individual user should be able to take with him the amount of substance he himself expects to use during the visit." The minority is concerned about it, and believes that this: "in the view of these members, could facilitate sales". I don't think we particularly disagree about this either. What I think is important for the majority to emphasize is that it's very difficult to put this into a certain number of grams, to say that a user dose is equal to that and so many grams. But what is clearly the point of the majority is that how much each user needs to set varies. It has to be taken into account, and I don't think that's very far from what the government has also thought. It's said that there's a very big disagreement about LAR. Actually, I don't think it's there either. The question is where to check. It's like everyone who's part of the LAR is regularly checked so they don't take drugs while they go on methadone, subutex or similar drugs. They must regularly pass urine samples; in the initial phase it is well talk of daily, I think, but also afterwards they must regularly pass urine samples. And if a person is taken with drugs while he's part of the LAR, he's thrown out of the LAR. The LAR code is crystal clear. In the opinion of the majority, the verification should be carried out in LAR. Here I don't think there's any big and dramatic difference either. What I feel it all boils down to, and where there is a clear disagreement, is the question of health professionals, and that the injection room should be managed by a person with health education. There, too, we agree on one very important principle, namely that health professionals should not be involved in injecting. That's also what the majority says. Health professionals are not supposed to be involved. It is said that it is extremely difficult to make a legislative proposal in line with the wishes of the majority, but the fact is that the Ministry of Health has, in my view, made a very good draft of laws on how health professionals can defy the role of the head of the injection room. I believe that we are very much in agreement here. If you have any practical eyes in the further work, I think we should be fully able to put in place a trial that both the majority and the Government can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e683	There is the result of a long-term process of establishing a sample scheme of injection rooms currently available for treatment in Odelstinget. There are several aims of setting up injection rooms. I want to highlight in particular the purpose of increasing the dignity of a group of people who are extremely vulnerable as a result of social exclusion and poor health, and who are almost in all relationships on the side of society. Although the experience of dignity will be subjective and difficult to evaluate, I am pleased that the majority of the committee sees it as the goal is already achieved when the scheme is set up. However, the Syringe Conversion Scheme is not intended to replace, but to complement, existing measures for the heavily charged drug addicts. The heavy drug addicts are in great need of health care. Both government and government are concerned that the injection room system should contribute to improved health for users and be a link between users and existing relief measures. The Government considers that this can best be done by requiring the injection room system to be co-located with low-threshold health measures. Such a co-location requirement ensures the necessary proximity and link to rapid health care. I have noticed that the majority of the committee also wants the injection room to be staffed by health professionals. The majority of the Social Committee wishes the Chairman to have a health professional background. I have also noticed that the Stortinget asks the Government to ensure that the necessary legislative changes and regulations are in place, so that the injection room can be used from 1 January 2005. The government’s proposal for a first registration has been based on a desire to facilitate access regulation for the staff and users of the injection room. Users shall not be assessed and must provide information on each visit. The implementation of the access control should therefore be an objective of the registration and should provide an excellent starting point for an important evaluation. I record that the majority of the Committee will allow access for users participating in the LAR. In my view, this will give an unfortunate signal effect. The Government’s proposal does not suggest that staff check the identity of addicts against a LAR register, but only ask whether they are involved in the LAR and state that they do not have access to the injection room. The responsibilities of treatment providers and LARs shall continue to be the responsibilities of the parallel abuse of LAR participation, if any. However, the government’s point is to give a signal, not only to the individual user, but also to social policy, that injection rooms and LARs are two incompatible offers. It is an important aspect of the proposal that the freedom of punishment for possession and use of drugs in the injection room is provided in the form of an excuse. The action will continue to be illegal, but should not be penalised. This is intended to signal that drug use is still undesirable. Any use and possession outside the injection room and any use and possession of more than one user dose in the injection room shall continue to be punishable. I have noticed that the members of the Progress Party "provides that the pilot scheme to be implemented will focus only on the heavy heroin users. Although this is to be an offer aimed at heroin users alone, there is a problem of polydrug use. These members ask the Government to provide a practical approach so that any polydrug use does not automatically cause a user to fall out of the action. However, these members would point out that the scheme should not be eroded to open up to new user groups". I have also noticed that these were the views of the representative Ellingsen. I would like to point out the importance that impunity is limited to the amount of heroin that can reasonably be expected to be used by this group of users for their own use. Although the amount of one dose will vary from person to person, it is important that there is a limit at the level clearly representing a spread hazard in the injection room. In this context, I took note of the views expressed by the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. The Government’s proposal has sought to balance Norway’s international commitments. According to the Government’s proposal, users are not allowed to help each other with the injection. I notice that the majority of the committee is in favour of changing this. It is my view that such a rule could impair the offer of users. Firstly, it is not unknown that users today buy help for injecting in the form of drug sales. The spray room should not facilitate such a risk. Furthermore, it is quite different to harm the health of others than to destroy their own. The regulatory framework should protect the user group from being used in such a context, where they may be put under pressure to inject syringes that are harmful to health and where they may be penalised in the environment if they are not helpful. This is a question of ethical standards in human relations. I see no reason why there should be a different ethical standard in the association between the users of the injection room than in the association between us. But I have noticed the views expressed by the majority of the committee on this point. I have also noticed that the Stortinget asks the Government to propose partial financing of injection rooms in the context of the 2005 State budget, and that the State share corresponds to at least half of the cost of setting up and operating injection rooms. Finally, let me say that the rapporteur noted that the answer from the Ministry of Justice was legally late. The answer came on June 10, after we got the question on June 8. It is clear that a State Council is available for the questions asked by a committee, and of course has nothing to do with questions being asked, so that a Grand Committee can do the best possible job.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e712	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e715	Following the intervention of May Britt Vihovde, I note that there is also internal disagreement among the government parties in this matter, and that the big difference is not between the Government's proposal and the majority in this Chamber, but in fact between the Government Council and the Government's proposal and the Government's parties, mentioned here by the Christian People's Party and the Right. The Minister of Justice and his party supports an experimental system of injection rooms, while the Right and Christian People's Party is opposed. I see a pattern in the fact that those who work densely against the heaviest drug addicts are the ones who most often support injection rooms. I guess it's also the former profession of the Council of State as a social worker that makes him and his party think that injection rooms are worth offering to some of those who labor the most in our society. The Council of State says that he has noticed that the majority wants the necessary appropriations in the state budget, and he has also noticed that we want the amendment of the law to be promoted for the Storting to the harvest. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State if he will follow this up, so that it will be possible to implement this proposal from 1 January 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e725	A government has an obligation to deal with the decision of the Storting. It has been done by this Council of States on behalf of the Government. The tensions in the matter are well known, and they were perhaps best presented by the representative Ellingen. I think they've been expressed honestly here. There's no reason to conceal it. I think I have made that quite clear. Once I've noticed it, that means, of course, that I'm following up. But it's clear -- to put it straight out -- that it would have facilitated my work if I had been asked about the necessary legislative changes at an earlier time, and that the committee had included it. But that is not an argument that I should not do my utmost to ensure that what has been done, and as I think the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has really cleaned up, gets a targeted and practical result.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e730	I expect that the Council of State, in the same way as I am, is pleased that the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, in his speech, subdued the contrast between the Government's proposals and the majority's observations in this matter. I believe that the Council of State can also confirm that there may be consequences in relation to the follow-up to the case. I am very pleased that the Council of State in its statement underlined that this was a pilot project. In the debate we had earlier this evening, that was the point maybe a little bit absent. My question to the Council of State is how he will ensure that this pilot project is thoroughly evaluated on the basis of given criteria, so that we can come to a conclusion when the pilot project is over, whether this has been successful or not in relation to the criteria underlying it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e737	I don't believe that there's any disagreement that someone should try this out and evaluate it if the majority position leads. Then the point is to do it as best as possible with regard to the injection room, but also, as I note that some other representatives have mentioned, in connection with a help chain. That's the point. I'm going to loot with how I'm going to do it well, but it's clear I'm going to assume that one is going to evaluate it. There is no doubt, and I would like to give it as a case-by-case information, that injection rooms, as the proposal is promoted by the Government, may have somewhat different staff soundness than some of the injection rooms that exist outside Norway. We never meant that this should be a heavy and cold room alone. It was not the government's arrangement either, but the views on what is the difference here have been expressed. I also agree with the representative, Höie, that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's contributions helped to make my job easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e746	I will start by giving the Council of State an honor for the way in which he has explained the matter. I also think that I should give the Council of State credit for the position on this matter. It has also been consistent that when we have had matters here that the Council of State has been particularly concerned about, it has come out quite clearly. I also think the Council of State had a more nuanced view on this matter tonight, than the other government parties have had, with the exception of the Left. At the same time, the Council of State represents a college of a tripartite government. It means that one is collectively united in accountability, at least on behalf of the Government. On that occasion, I would like to challenge the Council of State on the following: The representative of Marthinsen instead said that by setting up injection rooms, there was a greater chance of remaining in their abuse. Does the Council agree with such an assessment by the representative Marthinsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e753	It's late in the evening, but let's agree that this is a special case. The representative Vihovde quoted the party SV's journey from one point of view to another. The representative Ellingsen described his own struggle with this matter. Then I think you should have respect for the three government parties, who actually agreed in advance that they disagreed on this. As a government party, the left has actually been allowed by the others to vote for a system, and then it is quite obvious that once you follow something, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party must be able to follow their own views. Given the Storting's attitude, the Government has tried to present a view that we believe is factual in terms of dignity, and based on finding a balance between proper law and social integrity. It's the way with the juice that you don't "stunter." If you drive "stunting" with jus, you end up in unbridled situations. It's actually my job as Minister of Justice to clear up, so I appreciate all the posts in the room that contribute to it, so I don't do freestyle law.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e760	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e763	Experimenting with drug injection rooms raises a number of ethical and social issues that are not seen today. Neither Sweden, Denmark or Finland have injection rooms. It is therefore frightening that while Denmark chooses to tighten up its drug policy, Norway is heading for liberalisation in the Nordic region. Sweden, which has the most restrictive drug policy, is the Nordic country with the least drug problems. Finland may refer to good results from the provision at health clinics, where users receive wound care, vaccination, justification and referral to treatment. EURAD has recently presented, through a report, factual information that several European countries that currently have injection rooms will close them, precisely because the offer does not meet the intentions of less HIV and hepatitis, and that the use of injection rooms does not lead to motivation for treatment. There is good reason to be alarmed that in such a situation the opposition will carry out this experiment in Norway. In addition, the opening of the Working Party and the SV to the use of several types of drugs and polydrug use could lead to groups of users other than the most outpatient drug users becoming drug injectors. In this way, we risk Norway setting up injection rooms as free zones for drugtransmission. In the right, it is considered to be a wrong signal that the authorities in this way demonstrate their acceptance for the use of illicit and highly harmful drugs. The ethical concern is not diminished by the fact that the majority of the population add up to a government sub-financing of the injection rooms. I am therefore asking myself the following questions: How can the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party defend the state's financing of the operation of premises that facilitate the use of narcotic drugs - the same state that enforces the ban? The right is convinced that setting up injection rooms is not a suitable tool for reducing drug consumption and improving the health status of drug addicts. The right considers that the use of injection rooms, on the contrary, will help to maintain abuse and weaken already effective prevention and rehabilitation measures. A well-developed lowthreshold service as well as a programme of action are the main measures to ensure that drug users have a decent life and are able to get out of drug use. There's so much talk about dignity. What does the opposition really add to the concept of dignity? I don’t see any dignity in injecting illegal drugs in the years when others watch, whether it’s in an injection room or it’s in Plata. Is it really the dignity of the drug addicts the majority are concerned about, or is it the dignity of the passersby this is about? I fear the last. I fear that the easiest solution will be to place those syringes in an injection room, so that the others will not see and thus forget that they exist. It's follow-up and health care that drug addicts need. As a result of the drug reform, the Government has ensured better access to the necessary healthcare for drug users. The government has strengthened the commitment to medically assisted rehabilitation and established low-threshold health services. These offers have had a major impact on the life situation of drug users and have helped to halve the number of overdose deaths in the last two years. The right considers that the best way to help the heavy drug users in the future will be to focus on strengthening these services, along with increased treatment capacity and rehabilitation. The Government, in its proposal for the Storting, has proposed a co-location between injection rooms and lowthreshold health interventions. A main consideration behind the proposal is to provide contact, motivation for treatment and to provide individual health care. If the requirement to co-locate with low-threshold health measures is replaced by a requirement that the personnel in the injection room have health education, we believe in the Right that the offer of users is clearly lower than the Government’s proposal. To the right, it is essential that we avoid destroying the targeted work that is being done to strengthen care.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e782	The Christian People's Party does not believe that the creation of injection rooms is an appropriate tool to reduce drug consumption and improve the health status of drug addicts. On the contrary, we believe that this experiment will keep up with the abuse we see today. Instead of postponing drug addicts for such an experiment, we should focus on treatment that can lead to drugfreedom, and provide low-threshold health services that have as their primary objective the reduction of the harm caused by drug abuse. The creation of lowthreshold health services has played a major role in the life situation of drug users and has contributed to the half-life of overdose deaths in the last two years. At the same time, the government has strengthened the commitment to medically assisted rehabilitation. Enlargement of this supply in teams with greater treatment capacity and rehabilitation is, in the Christian People's Party's opinion, the best way to help the heavy drug addicts. Unfortunately, we fear that injecting rooms only help the addict to continue his abuse, and that this will therefore help to keep the drug addicts down. Jon Storaas is a leader in an organization of former drug addicts. He is strongly opposed to injection rooms, and in an interview with TV 2 on 4 June he says: "I think the only way to maintain drug injecting is by facilitating it for the users. The way out of the problem is getting further." Injection rooms are a clear signal that we have given up helping the heaviest addicts in another life. Drug use has enormous negative consequences in our society, and today there are more than 700,000 people in Norway who are dealing with this problem in one way or another. Many of the crimes we experience are also related to drug use. That society should give up the fight against such a big problem, which actually involves so many, cannot accept the Christian People's Party. We are forced to dare to ask ourselves questions about the effectiveness of injection rooms. An evaluation report from a pilot project with drug injection rooms in Australia, which was set up in Sydney, showed that injecting rooms had no effect on overdose levels in the area. There were 329 overdoses in the injection room, and the injection room had no effect on the number of cases of HIV, hepatitis B or C virus. We must not forget the signal effect either. I have heard today that several representatives have said that one is not afraid of the signal effect. But I'm afraid of what signal we're sending to children and young people, when we see a public endorsement stamp on an action that we're next time asking young people to stay away from. A word that has remained in this debate is "worthiness". However, dignity for the heaviest user groups is not primarily about setting syringes, but more about losing dignity because of the consequences of the abuse. And while we here in this room can demand a worthy life, those who are at the bottom of the ranks shall be content to destroy their lives within worthy frameworks. It is still the case that most addicts want to get out of the tragic situation they are in. They have a dream of a worthy life. Do we have the right in this room to break this dream by establishing state spray rooms? Our task should rather be to create hope. The Christian People's Party is afraid that injection rooms can be renovating drug users away from the streets, so we don't see them, to improve our own conscience. Who's worth it, then, is that what we're talking about? Injecting drug use is not a suitable place or measure to provide individual treatment for the health problems of the drug user. According to the Christian People's Party's opinion, it should not be a task for health professionals either to inject syringes for users or to provide specific individual advice to the individual user when injecting. The Christian People's Party believes that both content and purpose mean that the system of injection rooms should not be seen as a health service. It is therefore not natural to provide health care in an injection room. The government, in its proposal to the Stortingen, has proposed a co-location between injection rooms and low-threshold health measures. Individual health care should be provided at this low threshold of health care. This is done to create contact and motivation for treatment. If the requirement to co-locate with low-threshold health measures is to be replaced by a requirement for personnel in injection rooms to have health education, this will be provided for users clearly worse than the Government’s proposal. State health surveillance and health supervision in the state are under the supervision of the whole health service. Therefore, if the system of injection rooms is considered to be a health service, the responsibility for supervision will include the supervision of the whole service and not just the activities of health professionals. This shows that any decision to manipulate injection rooms with health professionals has far-reaching legal implications, and it is therefore strange that a rather unanswered proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e809	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e812	It has been said several times in the debate, among others. by No Marte Thorkildsen, that we who go against spray rooms must stick our finger in the ground and look at reality. The majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party, support the establishment of injection rooms for injecting drug users. Here, heavy drug users should come and have their syringes put, not necessarily by health professionals, but by each other. The proposal shall give worn-out drug users a decent life. Is it a more worthwhile life to be a heroin addict under state supervision? Should it improve the quality of life and reduce the harm to individuals if syringes are placed in officially approved premises instead of in private premises? In addition, these heavy drug users are to be recorded for the purpose of comparing this measure with other lowthreshold measures. To achieve a successful outcome, we need to use the right tools. An injection room is not such a response, either in the fight against or in the prevention of drug use. Today, there are measures such as heating rooms and accommodation, where the use of drugs is not allowed, while this measure allows it. What kind of dignity is it to be publicly documented in this systematic way? Where did the beautiful words about the right to privacy also come from for injecting drug users? I'm just asking. In the past, we have dealt with the police's ability to demand the identification of people with unusual behaviour in public places with resistance from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party. In the past, the same parties have decided to require police clearance for school employment. I record that there is no limit to how far the interference in the privacy of the individual goes, as well here. I think this whole thing shows how wrong it has become, and how helpless the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and not least the Progress Party have been in the fight against drugs and especially heavy drugs. The large mountain, which has now and previously fought an effective fight against the spread of alcohol appropriations to the incubator industry and outlets for a number of years, is now entering with a healthy mind in order to establish a safe haven for injecting drug users. The most frightening thing is that Norway, unlike all other Nordic countries, is considered to be a leading Nordic country with its new liberal drug policy. Denmark with historically liberal drugs policy now closes the sanctuary of Christiania. Finland has invested in health-enhancing advisory centres to motivate the individual drug addict to detoxify. Sweden has the most restrictive drug policy in the Nordic region and, not surprisingly, the least drug problem in the Nordic countries. The dignity that the majority obviously expect for each drug addict does not come through officially approved drug injection rooms, but through providing the mature drug addicts with an opportunity for a day-to-day rest, an opportunity for detoxification. The debate on injecting rooms here today clearly shows that the majority have lost their grip on the fight against drugs and the misery that comes in the wake of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e829	A few months ago, the woman and I went down the central station and tried to cross the European road to reach the port and look at the expansion of the opera. As we walked there, we saw that there was a human being inside the road. I crept under, and quite rightly, there was one who was quite obviously a heavier drug addict. He lay in a pile of needles, and it was clear that he must have been there several times and not just this one, or there would have been many others there too. It took quite a while before we were able to shake his life, for he had obviously put a syringe and was far down. There he had obviously gone ever away, perhaps through winter as well, for there was something more lukewarm there than if he had been out. After each time he woke up so much that we managed to lead him across the road and on the other side, but there was traffic, so he could have been quickly hit. So it's obvious that not only is there a number on the Plate, but some people are also living under these conditions. He had a plastic bag with the most needy items. I've also been down on the Plate once and discussed a bit with some of those who bulge drugs, both lighter and heavier, and what beats you, is that these are different people, who both have different education, different views on life, different views on the use of drugs, and also different perceptions about injection rooms. But what many of them describe is that they have a desire to get treatment, but they don't get it. Some have waited a long time. They lack treatment, and the offer does not come, whether they are motivated for it. What we see is that a number of measures are needed. There is a need for measures such as medicine-assisted rehabilitation for some, an offer that goes on for some, and you need a kind of offer for some, which is not necessarily about full rest, but is about taking care of the most disguised, like the one that was under the bridge, just to be able to offer him something else. Perhaps the ambition is that someday the specific person will end up with syringes, an unrealistic ambition. But at least what you can help with is to prevent the person from getting infections. Perhaps you can help with a contact with the Salvation Army, simply assist with a human behaviour that ensures a kind of support system that is not there today. It's relatively dreary when we hear from both the Christian People's Party and the Right that the majority should have a desire to hide people in an injection room in order to avoid seeing them out. It's a relatively absurd claim. Because there is something that the injection room can do, it is an individual approach to the individual, depending on the needs you get to know when you get there. But no one gets to know the need for a person under a bridge on E6 if you can't reach him, if this person is inaccessible and invisible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e843	When I listen to the representatives especially from the Christian People's Party, but also partly from the Right, I notice that I am getting a little frightened. Because what you can get the impression of is that if you just make the worst possible for these people, they might take the edge off and become good fellow citizens. All the time, it's the focus on freedom. The focus is on not being able to achieve dignity as a drug addict at all. I think it's about degrees of dignity, and it's about subjectivity. We can't define what's worth to other people. It actually has to figure out each individual from the sea. At least it is clear - and there should be no doubt - that the majority, who are in favour of injection rooms, do not want any policy on renovation. This is not a renovation measure. What happens in Oslo now, on the other hand, wears, at least in my view, the mark of renovation. The clearing of the Plate and the removal of beggars bear the mark that we, the citizens, do not want to see the misery of the face and realize that the Norwegian welfare state, too, which we like to boast a lot of, has its shortcomings and problems. Today, when I was visiting the Church's City Mission and the Rusmitteletaten, they told me that there has now been a decentralization of the drug abuse around the city. The abusers are more widespread; they are less visible. Among other things, they fear an increased risk of overdose, as Plata has, among other things, This means that once overdose has been detected, one has been able to move out quickly because it has been visible. Now you're hiding more around in the portals and indoors, and that means it can be more difficult to detect overdoses. We believe - we are not sure, but we believe - that setting up injection rooms could help prevent some overdoses. At least that's what I'm thinking: if we have health professionals, which we're going to get -- because we're going to have -- manned in these injection rooms all the time, it's obvious and reasonable to make sense that the chance of overdosing is getting bigger when you're being monitored all the way. Then I don't fully understand the resistance that, among other things. Representatives of the Left have opposed the need for those working there to be able to provide advice and guidance on injecting so as to avoid abscesses, infectious diseases, etc. That must be a very important contribution. Although this is only one of several contributions within a comprehensive care system, it can help reach a group of people who are not being reached otherwise. And we think that's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e854	I'm not going to use three minutes, but the arrogant way in which the representative Thorkildsen acts, and the depiction she makes of other representatives and their parties in this room, deserves feedback. I think one should keep to a minimum of objective representation of the positions of other parties when standing on the pulpit of the Storting. The skill and self-righteousness of the representative's posts is not suitable for creating alliances. It has only one purpose: to present others as those who do not want to help, while the SV's intention is to help. The way to talk from the Greatness Chair, I think one should stick too well to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e861	The majority of drug users today are to adopt an experimental system of drug injection rooms, which is a strong signal that the same majority have given up the heaviest drug users in many ways. Then it is good for the conscience of the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and the SV to offer this group they have failed, a nice and clean place where they can put their syringes in peace. It's not easy to help the heaviest addicts. But the fact that it's difficult is no excuse to expose drug users to an experiment. Drug users, who in most areas are at the bottom of the ranks of people's awareness, deserve the best provision of health and the best provision of rehabilitation, and not measures that are difficult to interpret as anything but a desperate attempt to show such a force for action against this group. It is also difficult to understand the implementation of such an experiment when we look at the experience gained in other countries. In those countries that have opened up such free zones to drug users, there is nothing to suggest that the health and health status of drug users should be improved. Similarly, fewer overdose deaths have not been detected. It may not be so strange when the average time between the injection and the overdose is taken is longer than the estimated time the drug user is in the injection room. To overcome such a major problem as drug abuse is both for individuals and for society, we all have a duty to think new and to try new measures and methods. However, its own drug injection rooms have nothing to do with new thinking. Providing a separate space for this purpose does not promote the objective of better health for heavy drug users, the goal of more people being able to live a drug-free life, or of more people being able to live a decent life through medically assisted treatment. There's nothing forward-looking about an injection room. Russ dependence, exclusion from society, the impossibility of living a normal or almost normal life are unchanged. The provision of a health service to drug users is used as an argument for drug injection rooms. There is no need to set up injection rooms to provide good health services to drug users. The rate of lowthreshold provision provides a health offer that reaches the drug user, an offer where they are not met by regular practitioners who refuse to have them on their patient list. That anyone who wants to get out of heavy drug abuse is going to be drug-free is unrealistic. Therefore, the focus on medically assisted rehabilitation is important. Although a lot has happened in this area, the goal has not yet been achieved. Both the magnificence and the government have indicated that further efforts are to be made here. The objective of the closure of the LAR queue by the end of 2004 is established. It is strange that not a single ovulation will use all available resources for lowthreshold health services, drug-based rehabilitation and treatment for a drug-free life, rather than turning to a blind spot, as injection rooms are. For me, injection rooms are politically produced. It is an attempt to adopt itself out of the visible misery, give it a nice wrap and hide it away.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e878	Both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have put forward a number of interesting hypotheses here this evening that they have, in part, presented relatively forcefully. In the form of the report, one will be able to test these hypotheses in an appropriate way, namely by simply trying them out in practice through an experiment. And that's what the majority has proposed. Let's try to see if the statements that have been made here are correct, or whether it might be that the experiment brings us to other results. Then it's a good idea for the minority to take on board that a majority will carry out that experiment, and that it is done in a way that can deliver the best possible results. I find it interesting to note how different the Left approach - the approach of the Council of State, and the approach of the Right and Christian People's Party. But it's clear that in any case, you'll be tested whether what Marthinsen says is correct, or whether Heieren Hundhammer's theory is correct, by conducting the experiment. Then we can later discuss whether so wide-ranging claims had hold or not. We'll see about two years from now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e887	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 618]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e902	An increase in the legal fee of more than 14 pst. is a dramatic increase. It is particularly strange that this increase is part of a budget review and not part of an overall assessment. The effect of increasing the cost of using the public decision-making system, as the courts are, is to make it a prerequisite for having a relatively good financial capacity to assert one’s right in a Norwegian legal system. 14 pst. the increase has nothing to do with the increase in prices. I hope that this is only a poor solution to raise money and not a conscious problem for people to use public services. Regardless of the motivation of the majority, the Progress Party does not see the need for such a dramatic increase. The results are also so unfortunate that we will go against the proposals, both to increase the fee and to the multiplier.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e909	SV did not agree to cancel the government proposal to increase the legal fee to NOK 800, but we do not support the proposal that came into the agreement between the government parties and the Labour Party in the Stortinget to increase the legal fee further to NOK 845. That is why I want to address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e919	The representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 619]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e936	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e943	It shall be voluntary to conclude a marriage agreement. The ability to choose for yourself whether to marry, and to whom, is a fundamental human right. The principle is inter alia: Article 16 of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Similarly, we know that several Norwegian youth with a minority background experience getting married against their will. This is an assault that society needs to address in several different ways. When the Judicial Committee dealt with Ot.prp. No For example, 51 for 2002–03. adopted a specific penalty order against the marriage of pregnant women. Through this, the size would send a clear signal that forced marriage is completely unacceptable and also punishable. The legal certainty of young people who are forced to marry needs to be strengthened. During the examination of Document No: 8:25 for 2003-2004 an overall committee expressed the wish that victims of forced marriage be given the right to an aid lawyer. The proposal under consideration is a follow-up. Victims of forced marriage are in a particularly difficult situation. Those who oppose marriage often have to break up with their family and close friends. In such a situation, it is essential for the victims that the public can provide the necessary assistance. We would therefore like to amend Section 107(a) of the Criminal Procedure Act, so that it is explicitly stated that victims of forced marriage have the right to have an assistant lawyer appointed on behalf of the public. An assistant lawyer could: provide information to the young person following a possible notification and police investigation and assisting in practical tasks around possible relocation; The assistant lawyer may have an important function, inter alia: to avoid a new identity becoming known to the family and others, which could endanger the victim. The lawyer will also be able to assist in civil law issues such as the cancellation of already concluded marriages, claims for compensation, economic shifts and, where appropriate, the distribution of children. It is important that the right to an aid lawyer does not apply only to the conclusion of forced marriage. The court must also include cases where forced marriage has not been carried out but where a person is in flight from a forced marriage during planning. Several forced marriages are included in the summer half of the year. It is therefore important that the right to an aid lawyer becomes a reality before the summer vacation. In that opinion, the Committee asks the Government to ensure that the amendment to the Criminal Procedures Act enters into force immediately. The Christian People's Party also believes that there is reason to consider other extensions to the aid law system. For example, you should: assess the right of an aid lawyer in cases of abuse of women and the elderly and in cases of trafficking in human beings. First, the government wants to reduce a sample which is to be examined in the context of criminal proceedings. This sample will be asked to propose measures to strengthen the situation in criminal proceedings. It is important that this work be given priority, so that the Storting can assess the aid lawyer scheme as such as it is as soon as possible. I look forward to having the Government's assessments presented at this point to the Stortinget. Otherwise, I recommend the unanimous setting in the present document.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e985	Forced marriage is a heavy burden on those who are subjected to it because the crime is committed by one's immediate family. The cause of coercion is explained to be a result of culture, tradition and/or religion. The ability to choose for yourself whom you want to marry is a fundamental human right. One of the reasons why this case comes up is that forced marriage in Norway is more widespread than what we previously knew. Today's legitimate legislative proposals that Stortinget will adopt will strengthen the legal position of those affected by coercion. The right to an aid lawyer will make it easier for victims to get out of their obvious hopeless and difficult situation. In the past, we have decided that in some way coercion in relation to marriage is a criminal offence. Punishment alone will never help those affected by the assault. As a result, the Government has implemented a plan of a total of 30 measures against forced marriage. Today’s decision on the right to assistance lawyer is just one measure among many. It is important to distinguish between forced marriages and arranged marriages. Discriminatory judgement on the existence of forced marriages is made if the proposal for eczema really gives each person an opportunity to say no. One problem is that whoever forces someone to marry will also have it in his power to force him not to report the relationship. There are clear examples of killings and threats of killing young girls as a result of a desire to divorce or divorce itself. Forced marriage is a very serious violation of human rights. An assistant lawyer will arrange for the life of a divorce, such as the following: the cancellation of marriage, any claims for compensation, child-sharing requirements, economic shifts and, where appropriate, the safeguarding of a new identity. I have previously raised the question of the right to an aid lawyer in criminal matters abroad, in the Questionnaire. This will include a handful of people. Giving the individual threatened with marriage is not a major economic challenge for the state, but often vital to the victim.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1004	I would just like briefly to add that the Justice Committee in this matter has shown some action. The Committee is united in the view that victims of forced marriage should have the right to an aid lawyer paid by the public. As stated in the suspension, this is a consequence of a private proposal by four party representatives. It shows that it is useful to take initiatives and promote private proposals for bottling and bulging, and I am pleased that this proposal was also carried out in an efficient and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1013	In Document No: 8:77 for 2003-2004, page 1, the proposers state that it is natural to consider the right of an aid lawyer in cases where the forced marriage has not been implemented, but where a person is on the run from a situation where forced marriage is under planning. I would like to stress that it is the court that has to decide whether a case concerns an infringement of the penal code § 222, second paragraph. [[compulsory spouse]] The Committee recommends that the legislative amendment enter into force immediately. I will ensure that the law is sanctioned as soon as the law decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1024	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 620]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1039	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that three replies be given to comments from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1048	The President-in-Office is on his way, but I will try to explain what the President-in-Office has wanted to say. In the light of the proposal we are now considering, the proposers refer to a change in the Patient Damage Act § 18 which entered into force on 1 January 2004. The changes mean that when a patient chooses to go to court, the patient must sue the Patient injury subject in order to be entitled to compensation under the Patient Damage Act. When the Patient Injury Act came into force on 1 January 2003, Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation, NPE, was responsible for the claim, i.e. the counter-party. The proposers believe that, in the interests of the patient, the law should be returned as it was when it came into force on 1 January 2003 and so that the patient can deal in legal proceedings with the NPE as a counter-party to the proceedings and liable to liability. All parties to the Committee, with the exception of the Progressive Party, propose that the proposal in Document No. 8:48 for 2003-2004 is annexed to the Protocol. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party consider that the current provisions lead to patients first having to prove that the decision of the Board of Appeal is invalid when they seek compensation. Thus, the focus is on the fact that the patient’s requirements are to be tested and not the decision of the Board of Appeal. I assume that the Advance Party itself will deepen its vision, if they think it is necessary. The majority of the Committee refers to the reply letter of 25 May 2004 from the Minister of Health of the Workers' Party, which refers to the fact that § 18 of the Patient Injury Act states that the subject of the action is the patient's claim for compensation and not the validity of the Patient Injury Subject's decision. The majority uses this understanding. However, the majority ask the Ministry to monitor closely that changes do not have unintended effects on patients seeking replacement. If that is the case, the majority asks that the matter be referred to the Stortinget again.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1063	On 1 January of this year, an amendment to the Patient Damage Act § 18 entered into force. This means that if a patient chooses to go to court, the patient must sue the Patient injury subject in order to be entitled to compensation under the Patient Damage Act. In the past, Norwegian Patient Compensation was responsible for the compensation and was also the counter-party to the proceedings. Such an arrangement has now become a major uncertainty in the system as to how to understand this change, and not least as to what is really to be tried, in particular as long as it does not actually meet the real counterparty in the courtroom. Nor is there any logic in creating an artificial distinction between public and private health businesses, if you are going to sue them. If a patient is suing a private health company, an insurance company of that undertaking is also the party directly responsible for the compensation payment. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, refers to the letter of 25 May from the Minister for Health, which refers to the fact that the subject of the Patient Damage is the subject of the action, which shall not affect the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice. I do not ask questions about the content of this letter, nor do I ask questions about how the law should be understood. The problem is that some of the feedback that is given shows that this change that has been made has created uncertainty and difficulty in understanding. The Progress Party therefore proposes to amend the law back to what it was before 1 January. I will take up the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1076	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has drawn up the proposal he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 620]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1093	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 620]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1108	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1115	I think the debate can be limited to two articles. I allow myself to refer to the Innst. S. No 149 for 2003-2004 and its debate, Innst. O. No 64 for 2003-2004 and the debate on the current and current timing, in which the various parties present their views. Let me just point to one ratio in addition to this short one. A majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, see it as important for compliance with the rules on work permit etc. that it responds more stringently than at present to such infringements. It also means that the level of fines has to be increased. We have requested that this be dealt with by the Advocate General, who could issue directives to the Public Prosecutor's Office on more stringent reaction patterns. I also underline the clear views that have come from the Committee in relation to illegal work, both in relation to the person who takes work and in relation to the person who does such work. The press has found that the police have stated that they do not necessarily see this as a priority task. In my view, this is totally unacceptable. It is not acceptable that the police should choose not to give priority to such notifications. On the contrary, these are particularly important social issues, which are to be given priority by the police. I therefore allow myself to ask the Council of State to confirm that the Government will ensure that these kinds of cases will be prioritised by the police. I would also recommend the majority position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1130	I'll just answer the question. Yes, we're going to follow up and make sure that the police have other priorities for this. However, it is clear that even for the individual worker who had to work illegally in Norway, there are some consequences of the EEA Agreement that make the means available today to dismiss immediately weakened. But in repeated cases, it's completely possible. We need to be aware that the EEA Agreement has some consequences in that particular area. With regard to what I have understood has been the main purpose of the Committee's position, both in the previous round and now, there is a stronger focus on punishing and punishing those who employ people. It is clear that it is fully possible to do so, and it should be done to a greater extent. It's also the government's view that we should do it. We want to ensure that it has priority in the work to be done, not least because the most important thing will be to do something about the attitudes towards black work in Norway to prevent black work from spreading, and that we get a labour market based on people paying neither taxes nor anything else. In order to comply with this, we must also be aware that the police must give priority to these areas. However, as far as the rapporteur's considerations about individuals are concerned, the EEA provisions raise the threshold somewhat for what is called traditional expulsion, i.e. broadcasting immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1139	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 621]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1152	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1159	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Olaf Gedrem on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Grethe Fossli, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party The President proposes that the vote be taken first, as an alternative, between the vote and proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, and then on the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. The proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party reads: "Agreements to the Law on the Reorganisation of State Power SFI§ 1 The purpose of the Act is to regulate certain aspects arising from the transfer of State Power SF's activities to an underlying limited liability company with subsidiaries.§ 2 Transfer of assets, liabilities, etc. Transfer of liabilities from State Power SF to companies referred to in Section 1 in connection with the transfer of State Power activities is made with liberating effect for State Power SF. The transferred liabilities are also not applicable to the country. Claimants and other rightholders may not oppose the transfer and cannot claim that the transfer constitutes a ground for loss of title.The first subparagraph shall not apply to loans falling under the responsibility of the State under Section III. 2 of Law No 20 December 2002 88 amending Law No 30 August 1991 71 on State undertakings, etc. § 3 Entry into forceThe law applies from the time the King decides."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1208	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1220	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation. The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. The Progress Party supports the proposals. Proposal No. 2 sounds: "Decision to the Act amending Law 30 August 1991 No. Law No 71 of 30 August 1991 No 71 of the LandesversicherungsvertriebsII of 30 August 1991 71 on State undertakings is amended as follows:§ 17 new fourth paragraph is replaced by the following:For Statkraft SF, instead, the standard share law applicable to the distribution of dividends, cf. Chapter 8.II of the Shares Act, the amendment shall enter into force immediately." Proposal No. 3 sounds: "Agreements to the Act amending Law 13 June 1997 No. 44 of the Act on limited liability companiesII of 13 June 1997 No 44 on a limited liability company is amended as follows:§ 20-4 para. 4 the second sentence shall be replaced by the following:For Statkraft AS, instead, the standard rules for the distribution of dividends laid down in the Share Act apply. Chapter 8.II of the Shares Act, the amendment shall enter into force immediately."
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1330	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1340	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1435	The Right Party, the Christian People's Party, and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1448	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party will oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1460	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1480	B, C and D shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1487	During the debate, Mr Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1510	There is a different proposal from the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: "Law of 17 December 1982 No 86 on the legal fee § 1 second paragraph shall be replaced by the following: the fee shall be calculated on the basis of a basic fee called the legal fee. This is NOK 800." The Progress Party and the Center Party want to oppose it. It is therefore the first to vote on the proposal by the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1530	It is then voted over the setting. The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1542	President, I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1549	The votes were corrected, so the setting was accepted by 47 to 24 votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1563	The progress party has announced that they want to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1589	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress wants to go against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1604	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1650	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1660	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1667	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal which reads: "I Law of 15 June 2001 No. 53 on damages in case of injury to patients, etc. [[patient injury law]] The following shall be amended as follows: the first sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 18 shall be replaced by the following: First of all, there is a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1785	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1795	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1914	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1927	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-06-14-lower.ana.ud789e1941	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
