ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e55	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Harald Espelund, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e63	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e68	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e73	Mr. Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e92	At the request of the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e101	The question of establishing a government representation facility with Prime Minister residence was first raised in 1999. The Prime Minister's office then commissioned State Building to draw up a sketch project for a representation facility for the government with Prime Minister's residence based on an overall use of the State properties in Parkwegen 45, Riddervolds Gate 2 and Incognitogate 18 in Oslo. State buildings considered that the three State properties in common would provide a good starting point for a functional and not least safety solution. The revised national budget for 1999 decided to continue the project for a completed project before final decision on the possible implementation of the project was taken. In the 2002 government budget, it was announced that the government did not want to move forward with the project. However, it was announced that State Building had been asked to prepare for the Incognitogate project and also to assess whether it was possible to project a Prime Minister’s dwelling with a different location. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, have noted that it has not been possible to find another property with a central location of the Oslo Centre suitable for both representation facilities and Prime Minister residence. Based on this project, state buildings have been transformed. The up-to-date cost calculations show that the total cost of implementing an overall installation will be 254 million. kr. Total costs show that one is facing a highly complex project, where the main challenges have been to combine safety requirements with the care of antiques. State buildings have announced that they expect to spend one-and-a-half years on retail design, and a construction time of approx. two years. The majority believe that by this arrangement one will have a functional and comprehensive representation facility for government and Prime Minister. The majority have pointed out that recent events, both nationally and internationally, have revealed the need to establish better security around government and prime minister. The same majority therefore emphasise that for safety reasons it makes sense to establish a single installation. In addition, it will be practical and useful for the Prime Minister to live centrally in a dwelling with its respective representation facilities. In addition, it should be able to offer a guest facility to accommodate visitors for whom it is obliged to cover the costs. There is also a need to expand the meeting room capacity, both for guests and for other events. The establishment of a single government facility can draw on common resources with regard to different support functions. Therefore, on the basis of an overall assessment, the majority, all except the members of the Progress Party, will support the Government’s proposal to establish a representation facility for the Government and ask the Government to continue to implement the plans. However, the majority, the Labour Party and the Government Parties will point out that the project incurs considerable costs and will underline the importance of not exceeding the framework of the project. The centre party supports the proposal for an overall installation but will set a cost framework of 200 million. kr. The minority, members of the Progress Party and SV, have differing comments and suggestions, and ask, among other things. The Government to ‘establish the possible establishment of a Prime Minister’s dwelling with a different location from that proposed. The investigation should assess other locations in Oslo or in the surrounding municipalities that may be suitable for alternative location’. But I expect that the Progress Party and the SV themselves will justify their proposal. In conclusion, I would like to stress again that this is an overall representation facility for the entire government, and not a purely Prime Minister's dwelling, as the Progress Party and SV mention it in their comments and proposals. State Building and the Government have investigated this matter and found out that the Parkwegen complex is the best option. In our opinion, there is nothing to suggest that the Storting should review the safety assessments that the Government has made here, and I have full confidence that this is well taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e127	The time has come for Norway to think that the Prime Minister should have his own Prime Minister's dwelling, and then it was natural to think that this should also include the residence of representation and possibly a facility that contained the accommodation part for overnight stays, especially for foreign guests. The case of an investigation was launched in 1999, as the case-in-law rapporteur Sonja Irene Sjøli also said. Then it was the Bondevik I government that put in power. State buildings were to carry out the investigation according to criteria from the Prime Minister's office. Since then, different governments have had a hold on the matter. One of the strongest criteria was the importance of security. We all know that there have been events outside the world that have clearly highlighted the need for protection for the government and Prime Minister in Norway. With the terror we experience around the world, now last in Madrid, one should be leading were in terms of security around state heads. Another requirement was that the plant should be centred and contain all the facilities. I believe that these criteria are now met by what is described in the communication, and that the work has been carried out in close cooperation with the police security department. One of the reasons why the choice has fallen on the Parkweg and surrounding areas, where everything is concentrated in one facility, is that this will ensure security for both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's guests. The government’s representation facilities in Parkvejen 45, Ridervolds Gate 2 and Incognitogaten 18 will together consist of approx. 5,000 m2. There are large areas and in the notification there are no other buildings with a different location and size mentioned as a possible alternative to the Parkway. It is only in the message that no other centralized property has been found that appears to be more suitable than the Parkway and nearby area. Perhaps Stortinget should be better informed about the properties that may have been included in the assessments. It's just been five years since Statsbygg gave his first sketch in March 1999. For sketches and foreprojects, 5.5 million have been used. NOK and in addition, State Building has spent 1 million. out of its own budget. In 2000, the plant was calculated at 212.8 million. So it's going to be $254 million. kr. That's an increase of over 40 million. kr, and it goes without saying that as time passes without a decision being made, the project will be even more expensive. There is a safety margin of 36.6 million. kr for expected unknown expenses and a reserve of 21,9 million. NOK, which is required by Stortinget, and it would be very desirable if this money were not used. The Labour Party and the government parties have submitted a comment, which the case-rapporteur also said, that the framework should under no circumstances be exceeded, and that is what we expect to be respected. The working party believes that 254 million. kr is an enormous sum, and of course there are immeasurably large concerns about spending so much money for a Prime Minister to have an owner-occupied dwelling with its facilities. Nevertheless, the conclusion is that the time has come to make a decision on this matter, and that the Parkwegen plant, which is both central and functional for various receptions and arrangements, which can accommodate guests, who are easy to operate in safety, and which can also be easily used by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is a facility for which we can go. And then you're left to see who's going to be at the move-in party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e150	To begin with, the previous speaker was relaxed: it is very nice to see the Prime Minister present during one of our debates. It's very rare we have that joy. The interest in housing issues may indicate that he intends to sit for a while. The Party of Advances and SV sees the need for a Prime Minister's dwelling, both in the interests of representation and security. However, we believe that it is important to balance the need for security for the Prime Minister against the disadvantages and uncertainties that this project imposes on others. The government has proposed that the Prime Minister’s dwelling be located in a strip containing many dwellings. There are already special security needs around events in the representative residence in Parkwegen that residents nearby see as a significant burden. It is evident that the security need for a future Prime Minister’s dwelling will far exceed what is necessary for the present residence of representation. Even in our part of the world, we have to assume that such needs can increase and thus impose additional pressures on the environment. With the Government's proposal, the Prime Minister's dwelling will be located near existing private homes. In the same street there is also a tram line that cannot take alternative trajectories in situations where security preparedness needs to be increased. The proposed location is also in close proximity to the Castle. Placing a new possible terrorist object in the castle's neighbourhood cannot be beneficial. The Progress Party believes that the security of which should be one of the key reasons for the location of Prime Minister’s residence should be placed elsewhere. In particular, sites with a greater distance from third parties should be considered. It's also clear that the project is going to be very expensive, over 250 million. kr is a significant sum. This should in itself be the basis for looking at other solutions. Against this background, we believe that a Prime Minister's residence should be investigated with a different location than the inhabited, densely trafficked directly behind the Castle. We recommend that you examine whether there are localisations in Oslo or in the surrounding municipalities that can be suitable as an alternative. For example, it has to be. be able to find suitable villas which could be purchased at a significantly lower price. It is, of course, difficult to assess the cost of such alternative locations, but it should be possible to obtain a good and safe housing within an orphanage, for example. 100-150 million. kr. On behalf of the Progress Party and SV, I would like to address the proposal referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e163	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e166	The Christian People's Party believes there are clear advantages in establishing a representation facility for the Government with extended accommodation and meeting rooms as well as a separate Prime Minister's residence. I mean, two of the parties in the committee have been bombing here, because we're working on an entire representation facility with meeting rooms, accommodation for international guests and a prime minister residence. I will give tribute to the Government, which actually promotes a matter like this. This is a matter that can be quickly abused populistly in the media and by some parties. Now it is not certain that there is an imminent risk that these batches will be used for such a representation facility with the first, but it remains to be seen. The current guest house in Parkvejen 45 is already widely used for representation purposes, primarily for meetings, receptions and dinners. By expanding the two adjacent properties you will be able to have a larger and more functional and comprehensive representation facility for the Government. The monk tray in Bærum is played as an alternative through the media. The alternative has been assessed, but not found appropriate, including: in the light of lack of accommodation and representation facilities for the Government. State buildings have worked on the project. The updated cost calculations show, as several have mentioned, total costs of 254 million. kr. This is a lot, and the Christian People's Party will stress that in this project, which in all the projects in which the state is involved, it is important to have good governance and cost control. We also record the introduction of a buffer to ensure that the financial framework is respected. Landsbygg expects to spend one and a half years on retail design, and the construction time will be approx. two years. As I said, the Christian People's Party believes that there are clear advantages in establishing a representation facility for the Government with extended accommodation and meeting rooms as well as a separate Prime Minister's residence. The current guest house in Parkvejen 45 is used primarily for meetings, receptions and dinners. It is important to underline the safety aspect. We have seen that there have been events in the last year that also lead to an increased need for security around both the Prime Minister and the Government, and also when we have foreign guests visiting. And for security reasons, we think it makes sense to establish a single facility for representation and Prime Minister's residence. The State should be able to offer a guest facility to accommodate visitors for whom the State is initially obliged to cover expenditure under existing standards for visits to foreign delegations. In fact, it may be a bit awkward to think that today the state cannot offer a guest facility that can accommodate the number of visitors for which the country is obliged to cover the costs, i.e. up to 15 persons during visits to heads of state. Safety will be easier to handle if we can place them in one representation facility. There is also a need for an expanded meeting room capacity in relation to what we have today. Both for lodged guests and for other meeting events such a facility would be appropriate. Based on an overall assessment, the Christian People's Party, together with the majority of the Committee, will support the proposal to establish a representation facility for the Government, including a Prime Minister's residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e189	It could have been interesting and exciting to start a debate on who is going to sit in this future Prime Minister's building, as it has tended in the debate here. The Central Party supports the proposal to set up a representation facility for the Government with a Prime Minister's Building. The case spokesperson had a thorough review of the case, and therefore I do not see the need to repeat what the case spokesperson said in an excellent way. But we think that the frame has been set slightly high, and we therefore suggest that the entire project be realized within a 200 million frame. kr. 200 million. kr is also a significant amount. I take this up with me the proposal of the Centre Party, proposal No. 2, which is listed on page 3 of the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e198	The representative Eli Sollied Upperaas has taken up the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2359]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e216	The proposed document No 8 by Woldseth and Knudsen’s representatives points out that there is a high level of public sector meeting activity and that it reduces service and information to users of public services. The proposers want the Government to promote a case for the Storting where the issues surrounding this issue are discussed. They also ask that it be assessed to introduce a non-meeting day – I believe it was the Wednesday they wanted – at all public offices. The Committee agrees with the proposers that both the service and accessibility of the public in all public administration must be better than today. The Committee's plurality, all without the Progress Party, does not want to support legislative regulation in order to impose a ban on meetings throughout the public sector. In many offices, non-meeting arrangements are introduced on a voluntary basis with a view to improving the service for the public. There are many municipalities that have created service squares, with the aim of achieving much of what the proposers point to. It's a challenge for all public offices, and all public agencies should be busy taking care of their users' interests and providing them with the service they need. I assume that the representatives of the Progress Party will do well for their proposal in a more thorough way than I have done. I therefore recommend the setting, namely that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e231	I am very pleased that the case rapporteur actually says that she agrees with me on the need to improve the service within the public sector. I have come into contact with a lot of people who are not satisfied with the public information and service, through experience, both as a municipal politician, state politician and as a big business politician. Of these, a high proportion complain that it is difficult to get case handlers on the phone to get answers to relatively simple questions. As stated in Document No. The 8 proposal, I believe, makes sense if at all levels of government a system is put in place in which case handlers and managers dealing with issues related to the public, including both general users and business, are available at least one day per day. For example, in order for people to be able to receive faster responses to simple enquiries from the right person – i.e. a ban or strong recommendation is put in place in practice for all public agencies to, for example: Wednesdays or Tuesdays are set aside as a day when you are only available to respond to simple requests at the counter or per. Phone. It is important to improve the ability of people to get in touch with the right person, whether they are customers in Aetat, social security offices, the technical sector in the municipality or in a municipal office. As can be seen from our proposal, fresh research carried out on the theme of public meetings is limited. There are only a few studies, which have been done a few years ago, and from one of them is quoted: ‘It seems to be a general perception that everyday life consists of too many meetings. Meetings may make employees less accessible and may compromise their service.» Another study suggests that municipal leaders on average use 40 pst. of his time to meet, someone up against 70 pst. Extensive meeting activities involve the simultaneous binding of many employees and preventing ordinary work. When you sit in meetings, you spend time, time you could spend differently. Although research in this area is limited, I feel confident that there is a great deal of meeting activity in the public sector, probably more than what is good for productivity and service. We have recorded that our original proposal for a ‘ban on meetings’ does not win the great support of the other parties in this Chamber. We'll take note of that. Maybe we've been a little too creative? What we had anticipated, however, is the proposal that is now on the table, that we should have a big message that discusses general and specific measures to improve service and accessibility at public offices. When we took this out with a ban on meetings, we actually expected to get support for such a proposal, but it doesn't seem like we are. On the part of the majority, there are four points on which a part is made in the field of public service, among others. greater level of electronic administration serving as user-oriented portals for public administrations across departments and levels of government, coordination of benefits related to employment, social security and social services, efforts to reduce forms, and efforts to make changes to the Planning and Building Act and setting deadlines for community proceedings. This is good and good, but so far the large and significant results of these measures have been delayed. With regard to the reduction of the form field, the current governments have little ability to do so. I would like to take up with this the proposal of the Advance Party as referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e258	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2359]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e277	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2359]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e297	I have two interviews today. One is about mental health; the other is about health reform. It's deliberately chosen, because both I and SV believe that those things are closely related. To a very large extent, health companies are responsible for the escalation plan for mental health, even though part of that responsibility is also the responsibility of Norwegian municipalities. So we want to focus both parts and try to see them in context. But in my first interpellation, I'm going to focus on the escalation plan for mental health. In St.meld. No 25 for 1996-1997, Transparency and overall, presented by the government of Jagland in April 1997, the services offered to people with mental disorders were described. In total, the message drew an image of a psychiatric service as a result of a lack of resources, both in the case of personnel, suitable premises at all levels, lack of necessary interaction and lack of funds for a well-developed service. In the position of the Social Committee in the handling of the big news at that time, a number of steps were taken beyond the government’s own to improve the state of psychiatry. Particularly important was the unanimous recommendation of the Committee, which asked the government to submit as soon as possible proposals for an obligatory action plan for psychiatry, which would also be financially committed to measures to strengthen psychiatry. St. pp. No 63 for 1997-1998 was presented by the Bondevik I Government in April 1998. An increase in the operating costs associated with the psychiatry, together with the investment costs, would amount to approx. 6.3 billion DKK means that around 24 billion more will be spent on mental health protection during the planning period, which should therefore have a duration from 1999 up to and including 2006. Thereafter, the escalating plan was to go into an ordinary operational phase from 2007, taking into account the level that would have been achieved by the end of 2006. In the context of the presentation of the escalation plan, the government repeated Bondevik in the weaknesses of mental health protection that had emerged from the major announcement by the government of Jagland, the aim of which was to respond to the weaknesses in order to improve them. There were numerical objectives in a number of areas. Some areas can be mentioned here: 1 185 new daily places for active treatment 220 000 more outpatient treatments, which should lead to an increase in treatment provision of 50 pst. 90,000 more daily stays at the district psychiatric centers, including an increase of 50 pst. strengthening the provision of services to groups with special needs, of which drug users were specifically mentioned as strengthening cooperation with non-governmental organisations through support to users and related organisations; So we are now up to 2004, and so the planning period is within its sixth year. The steps originally planned must now be able to conclude that they have not taken place. This relates to the total resource use and to the sub-targets set for the period. When the Storting adopts a escalating plan in an area, it must be assumed that it is because that area is to be given special priority. ‘Special priority’ means, in the SV’s view, that relatively much more is to be invested in the area than in other areas that do not have the same priority. We have sent a letter to the Council of State to review both the situation of health businesses and the escalation plan for mental health protection. We have received an answer to that letter today, and I note in the reply from the Council of State: ‘It has not been foreseen that the growth of activity in somatic matters should be lower than in the field of mental health protection, but that mental health protection should be strengthened.’ I perceive that the answer given by the Council of State here is one of the core elements of the problem related to the escalation plan for mental health protection. Because if you have the understanding that even if it is a stepping-up plan, you should relatively not put more effort into that area than in other non-priority areas. We cannot, of course, expect this area to be strengthened. You can also see that when you look at the appropriations in this area. The government of Stoltenberg wrote in the 2002 state budget that there would be a need for DKK 1 billion in increase each of the following years in order to keep up with the developments foreseen when the plan of escalation was in force. That year, an increase of 600 million was proposed. kr. The following year, with the Bondevik II government, the budget increased by 670 million. kr, not NOK 1 billion as foreseen, and it was pointed out that in order to keep pace in the following years, the increase would have to be $1,220 million. kr. When examining the current year's budget, what would have to be done was, of course, to keep the problems under constant review: it was no longer possible to meet the objectives of the plan within the planned eight-year timeframe. Thus, the Government proposed an extension of the planning period by two years, up to and including 2008. Of course, you could have gone into detail with the economy in this, but this is about far more than money. Many children who should have had help from childhood and youth psychiatry do not get that help. I record that some of these children are getting help from child protection, because there is a lack of a network, there is a lack of a family that can contribute in the way that children depend on in order to have good and safe growth conditions. In a look-up in the Evening Post on 18 February this year, the Health East criticism of poor planning in child and youth psychiatry and the plans for the closure of a special unit for psychotic children at the Sogn Centre for Child and Youth Psychiatry was voiced. Another report, published by SINTEF Unimed on 13 January, found that one in three children is waiting for more than three months for help, and that is after a referral, where it has been recognised that the child needs considerable help. In Health South, waiting time for children and young people is 97 days. In Health North, it's an average of 60 days. It is therefore two to three months after it has been recognised that the children have a significant need for specialist services. Those who wait especially long are boys aged 6–12 years, precisely the children who might be most in need of help, based on professional reports. There are also significant regional differences. In Health South, there are two treatment sites per year. 10,000 children. Health East has about twice as much. However, none of the sites can meet the objectives of the escalation plan. If the target of 5 pst. to help the children, to be achievable during the planning period, means that 5,000 more children are to be offered assistance every year during the planning period. You're not close to achieving that. Thus, there are now a number of reports, including a report from the Norwegian Institute for Urban and Regional Research, which identify particularly major child and youth gaps, with a waiting time of up to seven–eight months for assistance from the paediatric psychiatry. In adult psychiatry, significant gaps have also been identified. In the NRC, according to studies carried out by themselves, the Health Magazine Puls has revealed in several programmes that, for example, only 5 out of 28 psychiatry companies are prepared to strengthen their budgets in 2004, compared with 2003. A study carried out by the State Health Authority and presented by the NRK on its websites in March now reveals the serious failure of 34 out of 39 institutions surveyed. The main conclusion of the report is that the Health Authority believes that the supply of psychiatric patients is to a small extent adapted to the patients for whom it is available. The lack also appears to be highly related to drug addicts. Now, as you know, health companies have assumed responsibility from 1 January, but the lack of resources seems to be so great that the waiting lists now increase after the acquisition. In sum, this gives the impression that there are so many problems in psychiatry that there is a great need to carry out a full review quickly, to get an assessment and to take action as quickly as possible to improve the shortcomings. There is also an understanding in SV that it is problematic to solve these problems in the short term. But we're not talking about a short-term perspective here either. We are talking about a ten-year perspective, which, in 1996-1997, revealed significant shortcomings, and where we have had a gradual escalation plan since 1999. What we see is that treatment sites are being closed down in psychiatric hospitals, without regional psychiatric centres being put in place, in such a way that a number of patients lose an offer that is at least better than no offer at all. In our view, it requires very active measures to somehow get the psychiatry plan on rails. And that requires doing what you have actually said to do, that is to give this area priority, and it must be at the expense of other areas, which are not going to have the same amount of resources. Because if you don't mean anything about it, it means that the psychiatry will continue to be harmed, and then the health care priorities might happen in areas that you politically haven't even said to be a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e361	Through St. Announcement. No 25 for 1996-97, mental health was put on the agenda. The content is known – failure in all terms. Both government and staggering followed up with an obligatory plan for strengthening and restructuring the supply of people with mental health disorders, the Roadmap for mental health. At regular intervals, in the public debate, we are reminded of our obligations to users and relatives who are dependent on the public offer in this area, and that the Stortinge decision in 1998 is being followed up. In this room, too, we have discussed the challenges of better mental health protection at the latest on two occasions last week. This focus is positive. And let's be clear: mental health is a priority and should be a priority of government, big business, municipalities and health businesses. In the public debate, the shortcomings that still exist tend to overshadow all the positives that have been built up and developed at this time after the escalation plan was implemented. I have to respectfully say that it was also interpellant's posts. The public debate and the media's searchlight on individual cases must not make the whole thing disappear. Let me first remind you that the status of the escalating plan after half the run shows that much has been achieved. I have explained this, carefully and thoroughly, in St. pp. No 1 for the current year. More people are looking for help, and more people are getting help. It is a signal that increased bets yield results and that efforts are beneficial. The most recent data from SAMDATA show that treatment capacity has continued to increase in the last two years. It was, for example: treated 50 pst. more children and young people in 2002 than in 1998 and trends appear to continue in 2003. During the same period, the number of outpatient interventions for children and young people increased by a total of 85 pst. It is positive to note that, in the field of mental health protection for both adults and children, waiting time is reduced. But the number of new referrals is increasing. This shows that more people dare to ask for help and believe that it is useful to ask for help. This means that the waiting time is still too long, but progress is in the right direction. The Government’s strategy plan for children and young people’s mental health sets out the objective of reducing the waiting time for an evaluation interview for children and young people in specialist health services to 10 days. The capacity of the offer has increased sharply. However, there are wide variations between municipalities, services and health enterprises. Large capacity problems are still reported. Although several patients are being treated, there are reports of high pressure on the acute wards of mental health protection for adults and increasing cows at outpatient clinics for children and adolescents. However, we see good interaction between emergency departments and district psychiatric centres. Where it works, this pressure decreases. However, the roadmap for mental health is not only about increased capacity but also about work forms and organisation to be changed and transformed. The aim is a service on user premises, where overall, continuity and proximity are key elements. Therefore, let me remind you that Stortinget has joined in both a construction and a significant restructuring of the service offer, which is considered essential for the success of the escalation plan. We should all share a shared responsibility that in the public debate on such matters there will not be a unilateral focus on what is being built down as part of a process of conversion. In the name of honesty, no random proposals in a budgetary process may be made as final and responsible decisions. At the same time, reductions must be avoided before new measures are put in place. This is a specific and precise management requirement in the governance documents of regional health enterprises for 2004. We see a clear turn towards more outpatient and outpatient activities. It is therefore necessary to re-assess whether the previous figures in daily and daily locations, outpatient and outpatient activities are now in line with a desired professional development. I will come back to this in the 2005 draft state budget. The measures adopted by the Storting must reflect technical progress. I refer to St. pp. No 1 for 2002–03, where it is stated that there is still a strong consensus that provision should be made to the greatest extent possible in the country of residence and that housing leads to passive status and inadmissibility, which does not promote own mastering and autonomy. Patient censuses have shown that a very large proportion of patients in daily distributions should have had lower care provision. In the proposals for both 2003 and 2004, it is clarified that regional health businesses need to assess the number of daily places to use alternative resources if this provides a better offer to patients. More outpatient and outpatient activities from specialist health services will in principle also contribute to a better underpinning of local authorities' responsibilities, so that assistance can be provided more effectively in a home environment. The premises are clear: a decentralised offer should be developed for people with mental disorders. The question is how this is followed up in health enterprises and municipalities. After the NRK’s Pulsus made statements on the psychiatry budgets on 9 February, I asked regional health companies for a report on how the governance requirements have been followed up. The feedback from enterprises is clear, the level of activity from 2003 continues in 2004, and fresh escrow assets in 2004 contribute to the realisation of new activity. That this actually happens will be documented and followed up in reporting contexts throughout the year. Psychiatric health protection shall be protected from the savings requirements generally imposed on health establishments. The feedback also shows that enterprises are not familiar with the overall impression created by the Pulse programme. In the Health East, it is claimed that out of eight psychiatric units, only the Hospital Inland has a total of more money to run for this year compared to last year. Health East has demonstrated to the Ministry of Health that there has been a real growth in the region of 38 million. kr in 2004 and, in addition, the resource use will be continued from 2003. About Health West, it's claimed to be $13 million. kr to cover the 2003 deficit. However, Health West reports that funds have been provided for measures that have started in 2003 and will provide a full increase in activity in 2004. Similar claims concerning the other regions have also been made in the context of measures which are undergoing conversion in line with the leadership of the Stortinget. The Ministry of Health has a close follow-up to the core elements of the escalation plan, including mental health protection for children and young people in the Oslo area, to which the representative Ballo refers in his interpellation. As the Ministry has been informed of the matter, this service has a maximum of 46 vacancies for different and natural reasons. Several of these positions are non-clinical. This does not imply any change in quality or quantity compared to the agreed patient offers, according to Health East. As the escalation plan requires a stronger focus on local-based mental health work, it is important to develop and strengthen new approaches. Therefore, the overall picture can be very misleading when the media focus on the number of daily places, without compromising the overall build-up of the individual patient. What's happening in the municipalities? The first research reports from the evaluation of the escalation plan show that there are considerable differences between municipalities. Most municipalities are good support players for the process. In my view, the main challenge is to get the many municipalities where the offer is based. In a circular to the municipalities of the country, I have recently pointed out that earmarked grants will be added to existing funds, and not replace municipal self-financing of actions and jobs. In municipalities, too, mental health must be protected from cuttings, so that it becomes a real escalation. The assumption that at least 20 pst. efforts shall be directed towards children and young people, continued and followed up. In the context of the 2004 State Budget, the Government of the United Kingdom agreed to extend the planning period by two years until 2008. This is justified on the one hand by the fact that the restructuring of services and the conversion of cultures and attitudes require more instruments and longer time than foreseen, and on the other hand that stronger efforts are needed in municipalities. In the position of the Social Committee on the budget, the majority of the Committee, members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, supported the extension of the time aspect, but felt that the Government had to come back with the need and progress of the government budget for next year. This will provide the Storting Foundation with a basis for a comprehensive discussion of how to follow up the Roadmap for Mental Health. I want to take this opportunity to point to some challenges. Priority shall continue to be given to persons with severe and long-term disorders. In addition, we want to give increased priority to people with the most common disorders. This is an important precautionary measure to reduce the number of people with mental illness and to prevent further development of a serious disease. We have to see this effort in relation to the fact that almost every third person is insured because of a mental disorder. We have to do what is possible to reverse this development. The first national survey of municipal care services shows that people with mental health problems are coming out badly in all areas. I share the assessment to the State Health Authority that there is a particular challenge for municipalities to see those who are not being seen, and hear those groups that share their needs less than others, because they may be difficult and sensitive, and because they are unable to meet their own interests and needs and assess the consequences of their own choices. Last week I answered in the Stortingen’s spontaneous questionnaire on the supervisory report of the State Health Authority, where a major failure in the offer of people with severe mental illness was revealed. I'm taking that very seriously. I have asked regional health companies to review the supervisory report and follow up on all relevant points. Also from the other side, the escalation plan has been characterised and criticized for having failed the very sickest and those most in need of help, as well as that the rotation away from the very sickest towards the fresher is amplified. So I want to find out if there is a need for extra grip for this group. I have asked the Social and Health Directorate to call together user groups and professionals to discuss the issue and find out about any reinforced measures. They will in turn be submitted to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e405	I noticed a lack of indignation in the voice of the Council of State when he answered the interpellation, because he felt that the criticism could be unjustified, and that there could be media lookups that are not entirely adequate for the actual situation. I want to say that we in SV have shown patience in relation to the development of mental health protection, but we have always been concerned that we need to be strengthened, in a credible way. I believe that the Council of State in the specific case relating to the plan of escalation has lost credibility. I think that much of what the Council of State presents here today sounds more like excuses than a real analysis of the situation that exists with regard to the psychiatry around Norway. Obviously, you can discuss numbers. It is not difficult to make visible that the government itself has gone away from what they have had as ambitions in this area. But when it comes to the problem, it's about individuals. I've been around various institutions in Norway. Last year I was in Gran, in Hadeland, and I visited an institution there. What makes the impression is to meet individuals who describe that offers disappear without being replaced by anything else. It also makes the impression to hear professionals argue why the offers are going to disappear, given that they themselves want a kind of professionalism around them that really isn't about patients at all, but that's about having an interesting everyday life, where you surround yourself with enough professionals, and where you can kind of develop yourself professionally. What you can see is that the government is a passive spectator in relation to a part of that development. If it was the case that when one traveled around Norway and talked to patients and relatives, they felt that it was not true, what was stated in the newspapers, that it was not the case that the offer was being reduced, but that on the contrary, the government was in the process of strengthening this, I would agree with the Council of State in his description. But that's not the reality you're facing. You meet a reality where patients describe insecurity, where professionals describe insecurity, where they say that the funds don't come, they don't know where they end up, but at least they don't end up where they do a reinforcement. It is clear that when time and again experience that various health companies are proposed to cut short in an area where the Council of State has said to be protected, this means that professionals stop, because they are unsure whether they have their job tomorrow. It makes psychiatric patients more insecure, because they don't know if their offer exists tomorrow. This means that the overall impression of the psychiatry plan is that you haven't succeeded with what you've said to do. It is clear that claiming that this was not meant to be strengthened more than somatic is a quite significant rewriting of what the Storting has decided. This cannot be the case when a stepping-up plan is adopted, when less resources are to be made available than in non-priority areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e418	I will not measure the degree of indignation in the voice of the interpellant, as the representative Ballo said about my vote. He uses strong words. He's talking about "lost trustworthiness". Then I'm going to start from his main attack point, the underlying claim that the Storting has assumed that the psychiatry is going to grow more than the somatic state. Where did the representative, Ballo, get that? It would have been credible for the representative, Ballo, to stress this if it had been such that SV had consistently and systematically managed to slow down the development of activity in the somatic environment. But I remember, in fact, a situation around 25 June last year, when, in line with the adopted budget, the Council of State sent out a letter of governance to health companies to ensure that they stayed within the budgets. It was a majority on the Stortinget that you shouldn't have done it. The majority included the representative Ballo, who together with the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and his own party demanded that no restrictions be placed on the growth of somatic products. Is it this representative Ballo calling credibility in ensuring that you don't get a bigger growth in somatic matters than in psychiatry? I think it is unusually bold of the representative to use the kind of words that he now made in his second post. I haven't helped paint the situation in psychiatry. I also travel a lot to psychiatric institutions. I meet people with mental disorders. I meet people who have been doing well. I meet people who have gone badly. I meet people who are struggling, but I also meet a lot of people who resist when they see what is happening around the community and with the expansion of the service provision, and who thank you for it. I don't think either the psychological health protection, the professional environment, the patients or the users are served with one-sided descriptions, either one-sided beauty painting or black paint of the kind that we've seen in some media posts, to which unfortunately the representative Ballo has today fallen, contrary to what is his usual, nuanced approach to such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e427	It is now necessary to say, after what I have heard here, that all groups of patients – including patients with mental illness – have had shorter waiting time after the health reform was implemented and the escalation plan was put into effect. This is a quality feature of our healthcare system that is of great importance to the many patients who no longer experience as long waiting time as before. The roadmap for mental health has resulted in a significant increase in appropriations and results in terms of increased capacity and focus on improved forms of work and reorganisation. The number of people treated in psychiatric care from the start of the plan until now has increased by 50 pst. or more. This is good, and it's necessary. It is positive that the number of district psychiatric centres has been greatly increased and distributed throughout the country. This is a base wall in the psychiatry facility. This will increase the proximity of people with mental disorders to those treated. The escalation of psychiatry has occurred mainly within the district psychiatric centers. But there's a question as to whether this is sufficient. I am concerned about the messages we get about closing the offer before you have documented that new and better offers have come in place. I certainly believe that the psychiatric hospitals are very important for those patients who need a little longer treatment. Many patients with mental disorders need time and security. A premature discharge to the municipality of residence increases the possibility of the patient being re-entered into a heavier treatment scheme. I'm sure that a lot of municipalities, both small and a little bit larger, are now struggling with the build-up of psychiatry skills. Yes, I certainly believe that they are not in fact able to make offers according to their needs. Therefore, health businesses now need to reduce the number of closures that make patients into caste balls between municipalities and specialist services in heavier institutions. I believe that the Minister of Health must follow closely the plans and decisions of health businesses, and intervene where there is a reduction in places that are not at all professionally justified. I noticed what the health minister said here about the management document, and I have confidence that he will follow this up on a continuous basis. There is hardly a single reason for reducing treatment places in paediatric psychiatry, and plans to stop this need to be made. Although waiting time has also decreased for these, in many cases there is still an unacceptable long waiting time. A joyous move, as we now see clearly, is the construction of regional units in the treatment of eating disorders. I just hope that the profession is in place from day one. Another issue that is not satisfactory is the research and development of knowledge in the field of mental health protection. Very few professors in the field testify to a lack of research and a high level of competence. Here, regional health businesses and university environments have a task to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e442	There is little doubt that psychiatry, after being treated with a vote for years, has received a completely different attention in recent years. The escalation plan for mental health has led to a strong increase in resources for psychiatry. This has contributed to a sharp increase in the number of people treated, both in adult psychiatry and in paediatric and juvenile psychiatry. The waiting time has decreased, although it has not decreased as much as the increase in treatment capacity should be expected. It is not only negative, although in some cases the waiting time for the individual patient alone is unacceptable. That also means that the threshold for seeking help is lowered, and that's good. In the political world, it's not foreign to anyone to get out of the problem. But money alone is rare enough. In this way, the escalation plan is no exception. Increases in capacity and quality in psychiatry depend entirely on strengthening professional competence. This was also the reason why the escalation plan was extended by two years. Having said that, I would say that there are no black seas either in terms of manning or raising competences, rather on the contrary. According to a report from SINTEF Unimed, published earlier this year, both the increase in staffing and the increase in skills has gone faster than the objectives of the plan. Moreover, the same report concludes that mental health protection is well placed in relation to most of the objectives of the national escalation plan. What does not impress me, however, is the number of consultations per. working day per day treats. While the target in the escalation plan is 50 pst. productivity growth, the number of consultations has dropped from 1.67 to 1.54. Although the treatment of mentally ill people cannot be compared to hip operations according to the assembly line principle, this does not belong anywhere. Although there has been an increase in productivity of both 20 and 30 pst in some places, this is not particularly impressive. Even with such an increase, two treated patients have not even been reached by day if the starting point is one and a half patients. There are a lot of meetings, courses and bad organisation here, and I hope that the Minister of Health will pay this extra attention in the time to come. Although it is difficult to judge how to treat psychiatry as an outsider, we cannot allow psychiatrists to be protected from demands for the provision of services. The starting point of the inter-pellant is the frequent messages of cut in the supply to people with mental disorders. The Council of State took a thorough look at this in its answer. Although, in some cases, a call for warning is justified, it is not always true that the crisis picture matches reality – and fortunately so. The Psychiatric Plan has led to several treated patients, shorter waiting time and greater transparency about mental problems and diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e453	I have never understood that the escalation plan for psychiatry would result in a reduction in somatic health care. Where did you actually get that? That's going to be crazy. Despite the high attention the size of the population has shown in relation to the psychiatry plan, and despite the fact that the health minister’s clear guide to health companies on the prioritisation of psychiatry, there is unfortunately a slowdown in treatment provision in many places, and the waiting lists are also increasing in some places. The Progress Party believes that one of the main reasons for this growing waiting time is not just a lack of resources, but a lack of efficiency in the various psychiatric hospitals and DPS. It is now imperative to go into the internal organisation of individual psychiatric hospital units and DPSs to find explanations as to why psychologists and psychiatrists in public psychiatric hospitals and outpatient clinics are only able to treat about 20 %. one patient per day. daily work, while private psychologists and psychiatrists treat up to eight to nine per year. day work. Previous explanations of this great difference, that the private psychiatrists only take the easiest patients, are no longer a durable explanation, nor are they correct. In my opinion, the very culture of psychiatric treatment institutions needs to change. If the professionals themselves are not able to do so, the business authorities must intervene and ensure that staff, in particular psychiatrists and psychologists, are required to participate in order to increase patient treatment in relation to the current situation. We can no longer accept that patients in psychiatric hospitals stay in the department for five to six days before contacting psychiatrists or psychologists in the department. Nor can we accept that psychiatric wards are staffed with uninformed turnaround candidates, and that cases such as those of a hospital in Health South recently occur, where a young woman was only appointed by a turnaround candidate and was not admitted, despite serious psychosis, and the next day she took her own life. Nor can we no longer accept that more district psychiatric centers have only opening time from 9 to 16 and refuse to add patients despite the fact that they have empty beds. It is my conclusion that the Minister of Health here must immediately intervene in the internal organisation and operation of some of our psychiatric hospitals and outpatient clinics. Psychiatry, I believe, must become a stronger integrated part of the specialist health service, and not engage in freelance activities, as it is doing to some extent today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e464	A significant proportion of those suffering from mental illness also suffer from addiction problems related to drugs. With effect from 1 January of this year, the State of regional health establishments also assumed responsibility for the specialised treatment provision for those with drug dependence. Therefore, the issues addressed by the interpellant in psychiatry are also closely related to the drug field. As with psychiatry, we receive almost daily reports of cutbacks and restrictions both in the treatment provision of people with dual diagnosis of drugs/psychiatry and in the treatment offer of those with drug dependence as their main problem. I'll give you some examples of this. At the Buskerud Hospital in Drammen, they expanded from six to nine places in 2003 the ARP Research Unit – the Department of Raisin and Psychiatry. After the expansion, the process has increased sharply, and they now have a waiting list of approx. 60 drug addicts and a waiting time of at least two months. Despite this, recent decisions have been taken to reduce the number of seats by 30 pst, from nine to six again, with effect from 1 May this year. They're out of $2 million. kr to maintain operation. Froggnerlia dualdiagnosis treatment institution in Lier reduces the number of treatment sites by 20 pst during these days. – from ten to eight – for economic reasons. Patients applying for treatment need long and time-consuming treatment, usually for about a year. Due to demand for efficiency and reduction in the number of sites, the treatment duration now has to be reduced to six months, which may be even shorter. It is said that this is becoming a much worse treatment provision, and the chances of success are reduced accordingly. For patients whose drug dependence is the main cause of suffering, this offer is being reduced, and waiting time is partly increasing dramatically. The methadone team in Buskerud reduces the offer by 10 pst. The waiting time to start up after a treatment decision is about one year. Yesterday, Telemarksavias reported a record methadone queue in Telemark, and that MAR – drug-assisted rehabilitation – has introduced an intake stop. Only those with life-threatening somatic or psychiatric diseases are admitted, despite the fact that nearly a hundred are on the waiting list. These are just a few examples showing that there is now a call for a warning from large parts of the country that something needs to be done quickly. There is good reason to fear that some of those waiting for treatment will die in this waiting period. I also expect the Minister of Health to be familiar with this situation, assuming that he looks at it with the greatest seriousness. The question will then be whether the Council of State can promise that, since the revised national budget, concrete and highly targeted measures will be taken to increase both the capacity and quality of the part of the care for which the health care provider is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e481	We know that the number of people with weighty mental health is high, and that the consequences are high, mainly in terms of personal burdens, but also in terms of major economic challenges related to treatment, social services, sick leave, disability and job losses in society. This is why the Christian People's Party has committed itself so strongly to building up a valuable supply for people with mental illness. The escalation plan has had many positive results so far. Much has been achieved. More searches for help and more ones get help. Increased bet produces results, and your wager is going to be useful. More than 10,000 children and young people received assistance from the specialist services in 2002 than in 1998, an increase of a total of 51 pst. And almost as strong is the increase in the number of people asking for help. The average waiting time for adults has been relatively stable between 2001 and 2003 — between 50 and 60 days, despite the fact that the number of newcomers has risen sharply over the same period. The average waiting time for children has been reduced from 90 to 70 days in the same period. Here too, the number of newcomers has risen sharply. This shows that many people dare to ask for help and believe that it is useful to ask for help. The Christian People's Party expects the waiting lists to go further down. So many things have happened. And even though much remains, we must not forget that the starting point for the escalation plan was a crushing description of the services we could offer people with mental illness. There was a lack of capacity in the specialist services, a lack of local action in the municipalities, too high a threshold to escape, too long from the first signs of illness to treatment, for early printing, missing follow-up after printing and for poor quality assurance of services. This was described as ‘failure of all paragraphs’. The Roadmap for Mental Health has led not only to an extensive expansion of services but also to a comprehensive restructuring. This means that, in parallel with the build-up of the supply, there will also be a build-up of the supply that will be replaced by new ones. But for the Christian People's Party, it is a premise that one does not build up old offerings until one has managed to build up new ones. The Christian People's Party shares the great impatience of results expressed in the social debate. Nor should one forget that it takes time to plan and build skills. It is important to be aware that although the escalation plan contains some comprehensive set of concrete measures, it is a field of thought, behaviour, understanding and not least working methods that are changing and developing. This means that each municipality and enterprise needs to find good solutions locally. There is a plank execution, not when the background was "fail in all the paragraphs", but a bet that requires reflection. It's important to jump fast, but it's at least as important to jump in the right direction. Although not all targets have been achieved, the results achieved show that there is a positive development in psychiatry. More people get help, and more people ask for help. And waiting times are getting shorter, especially for children and young people. So this shows that it's useful to have a government that dares to bet on psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e496	I agree with the Minister of Health in one of his statements, and that is that the whole must not disappear in individual matters. But when the individual things become so many that they form a whole, there is reason to react. So the Minister of Health said in written form that one should have no lower activity in somatic matters than in mental health protection. That's all right, but then we have this bike fight on resources. The center part won't slow down the activity of the somatic system, but at the same time we're going to increase the activity of the psychiatry based on the intentions of the psychiatry plan. This newsletter from the Minister of Health last summer I can make a little visit. We didn't even agree to slow down the somatic activity then, but we don't have to put these things up against each other. What you can conclude is that there is too little access to resources in the specialist health service. If one is to increase the level of activity, one must also increase the resource base that must be available and available in order to have a good specialist health service in both somatic and psychiatry. The same should apply to psychiatry and somatic matters in the municipal sector. Especially if you want a decentralised profile of mental health protection efforts, it is clear that municipalities have to be able to provide the decentralised service in a proper and dignified way economically and resources. The District Psychiatric Centres were some of the things that would take up the increased activity and be a link between the first and second line levels. We know that adopted projects that were there before health companies came into the picture have been postponed or ridiculed. In my opinion, that's the opposite of betting. This crisis situation means that we are now just discussing treatment — and I may have to say crisis treatment — and not prevention. It's very scary. Psychiatric disorders generally increase, and psychosomatic disorders will come as a snare over much of the Norwegian health system. We know that more children and young people suffer from mental illness, and not least for this group there is an urgent need for treatment, so that disease development does not have even greater consequences and it is even more expensive to treat. I would like to repeat again what the Riksrevision has pointed out, that there is an error in the allocation from the ministry and the state itself. That misallocation, or the pre-allocation, should be corrected as soon as possible. I ask the Minister for Health once again: will he do something about this in connection with the revised national budget already to spring? Offers disappear without new ones coming and being set as an alternative, both in the case of emergency reception, proper diagnosis, which others have been involved in as well, treatment, rehabilitation and care and aftercare. Russ and psychiatry are also a problem area that I hope we can perhaps come back to the next matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e514	When the Storting went through the psychiatry challenges in 1997, this part of the health care was subjected to a crushing judgment. It turned out that the need to improve the supply of people with mental disorders at all stages was great. The contingency plan was adopted for the period 1999-2006. Afterwards, a lot of positive has been done, and a lot more people are getting help today. Despite the fact that more and more resources have never been used for mental health and, although more and more people seeking help are receiving help, there is still a high level of pressure on the acute wards of mental health protection for adults and increasing cows at outpatient clinics for children and young people. This shows that we are facing new and major challenges today. I am therefore pleased that the Government has proposed to extend the planning period for a further two years, up to and including 2008. The need to improve the supply of people with so-called double diagnosis is high and increasing. We find that more and more young people are flirting with drugs and so-called party baptisms, leading to depression, anxiety, personality disorder and psychosis. In the treatment of drug reform, it was decided that from 1 January 2004, drug addicts should have the same entitlement to treatment as other patient groups. This means that these patients are covered by the Patient Rights Act. It also means that the primary responsibility for developing treatment services for patients with doublediagnosed drug/psychiatry has now been added to healthcare establishments. Patients with so-called double diagnosis need better and more coordinated services than others. It is therefore positive that there is now finally a technical agreement that treatment for both disorders must be seen together and given at the same time. This means that the trouble is now finally being taken seriously, but it also means that there are increasing demands on the psychiatry. The area is marked as a special challenge both for municipal services and for health businesses. The Health Directorate and regional health businesses are now cooperating on regional education programmes for increased competence in the field of drugs and mental health problems. The work on important skills enhancement is reinforced by 2 million. DKK in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e525	It is obvious that both within health businesses and with regard to the mental health promotion plan are facing significant challenges. I have heard different figures in relation to the use of resources in the field of specialist health, but a figure that has probably gone back is about NOK 56 billion in total. It is clear that there are huge sums, and if we do not use them specifically and in such a way as to ensure that those groups that need it most, also get the help, there is a risk that increased appropriations will not really lead to increased aid at all. For this reason, it has been important for me and for EN in terms of health policy, precisely to seek to target the funds. I note that the Council of State is critical of the fact that the majority did not previously wish to limit the growth of expenditure in some areas of specialist health care, and that it could just be a signal of growth in areas that were not to be given priority, and that is a signal I take. I believe that a common responsibility that the whole Storting has, instead of turning to a kind of lightweight rhetoric that is, of course, negotiable, is to be concerned with: how do we use these resources targeted? But then I hope that you can get further in a discussion about priority that over time has the effect that those who are the weakest get the help first. I don't think, I must be so free to say it, that the Council of State has answered well what lies in my question as to whether it is not the case when you have strength in certain fields – we have had a cancer plan, we have a psychiatry escalation plan – that it should not also be that you get strengthened over time relatively. Because if it doesn't, if it's that when we close the mental health promotion plan, it's going to go down again, then you're going to experience that there are other parts of the business that have a relatively much larger growth, and then it's going to hit the psychiatry again over time. It is clear that when we come back to the debate on health businesses and the growth of resources in some areas there, it will be seen that there has been growth in areas where the size of the population has not at all foreseen growth. I hope, and I want to be constructive in this respect, that the Council of State and I can have a certain common understanding of the fact that we need a different degree of resource management within the overall health care system, and especially the specialist health service, than what we do per. and that, of course, it is a responsibility of the Stortinget, like the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e532	Let me first remind you that the annual framework for the bet on the escalating plan has been adopted by the Stortinget. It is also the guidelines and objectives for the implementation of the plan. We have an annual performance out here in the hiking hall when the government has presented its draft budget, where the Council of Mental Health in a familiar style talks about the betrayal of psychiatric patients, and where the opposition parties in turn tell them to grant much more. Years after all, I have experienced that the bet I have made has been adopted in Stortinget, and that is what I must have as a starting point when I implement the escalating plan. There is also a clear premise in the escalation plan that this is not only a stepping-up, but a conversion. But over and over again, I experience in the media, and unfortunately also from big business representatives, that clear conversion measures such as closures and cuttings are being produced. I have not said that there have been no cutting decisions that have been incorrect. It has happened, I have grasped it, and I have a very strict and clear follow-up of health companies on this. But I think that we should let go of both professionals and professional environments and from informed actors in the debate that, first of all, we should mix random proposals in a budgetary procedure with final decisions and, secondly, proposed conversion measures with closures. If we can't have that kind of tidyness in the debate, it's going to be very difficult to implement what the Stortinge provided for. That being said, my articles here today have been marked by an attempt to nuance a one-sided image. In the first article of the interpellant, I did not find a single light point. It was just negative descriptions. That's not the reality. I have tried to give a more nuanced picture, with a clear recognition that we have not reached far enough in the municipalities. There are too many differences. We haven't reached enough when it comes to cutting waiting times. We have several wrong cuts in the conversion processes that we have had to intervene against. But we're doing it, and we're on. It's a subject that's under pressure in terms of productivity, that's been discussed here by a lot of people. Progress is being made, and in the name of truth, we need to find out because this field also needs motivation to do the job. If the one-sided description of everything is black, is allowed to rule, it becomes black, and then the collective depression is going to take Norwegian psychiatry. That's not what patients deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e541	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e559	The Health Companies Act was adopted by the Stortinget in June 2001 with effect from 1 January 2002. As a result, we now have a working time of two and a half years to look back on when it comes to reform. At the time of the adoption of the reform, there were quite a number of speakers in the Chamber. There were also representatives outside the Social Committee. I would quote what current Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, who was at the time in an opposition role, said: ‘This reform really means moving important decisions away from elected bodies with closeness to users — patients. I'm afraid that can lead to a democratic deficit in our hospital policy. The effectiveness is underlined, and that is important. But we all know that healthcare is as much a question of quality as quantity." Mr Bondevik also said: ‘The specialist healthcare and hospital services must be seen in the context of primary health services. I am afraid that this coordination can become more difficult with the model that is now being chosen, with hospital administrators without a political anchoring and administration levels that are responsible for primary health and hospital services, respectively, between which there is a great deal of distance. I believe all in all that this is not the key to a better and more efficient hospital in our country." What we are now looking at in relation to the different health businesses is that we describe a number of changes, quite extensive processes that are currently underway, with a total proposed cut. 4 billion dollars this year and to next year. According to the Daily Newspaper of 19 February this year, it is proposed to cut in Health South on approx. 600 million. SEK in 2004 and 670 million. kr in 2005. For Health East, including Ullevål University Hospital, the number is approx. 735 million. SEK by 2005, Health West 500 million. In 2004 and around the same amount in 2005 and for Health Mid-Norway approx. 300 million. in 2004 and around the same amount in 2005. For Health Nord, the figures are approx. 326 million. SEK in 2004 and approximately the same thing, SEK 329 million. kr, in 2005. In order to balance the budgets during 2005, there is a description of measures that are relatively dramatic. It has, among other things, have been talking about the closure of a local hospital, and departments have been proposed in its extension, such as the Stord maternity ward, the local hospital in Kragerø, and the stop in the construction of a district psychiatric centre in Stjørdal and Trondheim. I record that when it came to the maternity ward at Stord, the local government went in there to join in with a grant. So you have to use municipal budgets to maintain a specialist health service service, which is a very special situation. It is also proposed to cut jobs, for example 181 posts at the University Hospital Nord-Norway. Based on what has been described, if implemented, there may be cuts in posts of the size of 1600. Some sites are also reported in more Corridor Asiatic countries than in many years. Almost 5 pst. of patients lying in the corridor, showing some materials. The situation is said to be worst at the University Hospital in North Norway and at St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim, based on a look-up in the NRK on 10 March this year. A report from NRK Troms on March 3 said that it could be more difficult to have patients admitted to the hospitals in Harstad, Narvik and Stokmarknes. There has been talk of savings of 92 million. NOK over two years and about cuts corresponding to 166 beds and 117 years. The savings involve an increased responsibility for the 24 municipalities that claim to the area of Hålogaland Hospital, to take care of more patients, without the municipalities as such being allocated additional resources to it. Clearly, in a situation where the budgets do not go far, it is necessary to be open to the disbursement of funds and to look at measures that can help balance the budgets. But what comes to mind then is what I'm describing here in relation to cuts, is the situation that you've had with some of the funds that the Storting has granted. So we see that hospitals' compensation of employees has been increasing in the last year, with a place between 10 and 20 pst. In Health Finnmark, there is a description of an increase in the doctor’s fees of approx. 16-18 pst. At the University Hospital Nord-Norway, the increase in costs we're talking about will amount to 40 million. kr for the current year. In domestic hospitals, the increase in wages is more than half the demand for austerity. The doctors, based on a look-up in the VG on February 23rd this year, got 10 pst. the increase in wages and salaries and the increase in the proportion of permanent wages and salaries resulting from the conversion of the pay system. The County Councillor in Hordaland, Paul W. Nielsen, considers, on the basis of a notice published in the NRK on 16 February 2004, that the wage developments in enterprises are ‘out of control’. During the first year of health care establishments, the number of administrative staff increased almost eight times that of doctors in the case of increases in jobs, according to a report by SINTEF Unimed presented in the NRC on 10 March this year. What this raises questions about, and I would like to think that the Council of State is also concerned about, is how the size of increased appropriations can ensure that the situation I have described does not arise, that is, the situation that threatens the closure of local departments, perhaps the entire hospital is in danger of being closed down. Funds are granted to ensure a well-decentralised healthcare system, including in the case of specialist health services, and then they do not help to maintain the structure based on the wishes of the Stortinge but to increase wages to those who already have the highest wage level. After all, it has not been long since a debate was held in this Chamber on the salary levels of directors and directors and on pension conditions with million contracts. This is about using the funds in a targeted way, so that you get as much back for it as you can. I registered that the Council of State asked a slightly rhetorical question back if SV thought that it would be decided here in the storeroom what the remuneration of doctors would be. We don't mean that. We do not believe that individual wages should be handled in the storeroom, but we believe that we need to have control of the expenditure growth in such a way that it is the Stortinget that is leading the way in which the funds are used. And what I'm describing here is a sign that you don't have that control. Then we say that regardless of how the budget procedures turn out, and even if the cuts are not as expected, there are constant warnings of closures, redundancies and intrusions for patients and for employees. I was at the hospital in Hammerfest a month ago at a meeting about the situation in which very small and vulnerable environments were described, for example in the case of orthopaedics, that when you continue to get those kinds of processes and become unsure about whether that structure exists over time, professionals – who may have been there for a good few years – will experience the situation that is so infertile that you look around for work at other hospitals. Orthopedics could be an example of that, general surgery another. It can be seen that there may be changes in relation to emergency services, and then the professional community becomes unsafe in this respect. I have a great deal of understanding that you can't give prior guarantees about how things are going to be exactly after changes, but what we're seeing is that the conversions take place at a speed and with an unpredictability that creates that kind of uncertainty. It is good that the Governing Council has taken the initiative to ensure that the Governing Councils are open. But in a meeting that I had yesterday with representatives from Northern Ireland, it is described that there has been a creativity directed by the governments of health companies, where, in advance of open meetings of the board, government seminars are now organised, which are of course closed, and where decisions are in practice moved into the board seminars and refer only to what has been done, in the open board meetings. In sum, this is a development that can't be worthwhile. We need to make sure that we control the resources of healthcare companies so that we get priority given to what the Storting is doing, and that we get to a proper resource use. Therefore, on several occasions, SV has called for the Storting to adopt national health plans which are descriptive of the structure, and then the tasks of the Boards around the five health establishments and also of the sub-enterprises will be to realise what is leading, and to return to the Storing if there is no means of achieving what the Storing has decided to be the structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e606	The representative Ballo addresses in this interview issues that have been debated in this Chamber a number of times earlier. He even goes back to the adoption of the hospital reform itself. His installation bears the mark that he wants a rematch on the reform. Like the Central Party, which was also opposed to the reform, the SV has recently become prominent by constantly criticising the decisions taken by the majority in this Chamber. I have a different starting point. The Christian People's Party, the party I now lead, was also opposed to the reform. After all, the party's then parliamentary leader was quoted by the interpellant now on the opinions of the Christian People's Party at the time. But unlike the other two parties mentioned in this Chamber, my starting point is that I am going to carry out the reform that Stortinget has adopted, with the framework conditions that Stortinget is adopting, and with the aim that we should get faster and better treatment for Norwegian patients. That's what we've done to a great extent. We have also achieved better productivity in hospitals during the first year of operation. It is also very positive. This process is underpinned by the thorough treatment of both legislative proposals and key health messages by the Stortinge. These are documents to be dealt with by regional health establishments. I also want to draw out St.prp. No 1 and the budgetary position of the Social Committee. I provided there, under the Health Enterprises Act, an annual report on the situation of health businesses. The majority of the Committee was of the opinion that the notification was very good at the beginning of developing an appropriate communication between the magnificence and the Council of State as regards the overall overall and fundamental aspects of the specialist health service. The reform of health enterprises is inter alia concerned with: on the accountability of health establishments. Within the framework of adopted budgets, laws and governance requirements formulated in relation to the funds allocated, health establishments have the freedom to choose their way of developing the service. A clearer organisational distinction has been established between the overall political level and health enterprises. The management shall be carried out in a formal manner and to a large extent through the annual management documents. Health oversight is both national and supervisory and has a national responsibility for overseeing so that we are confident that good and sound offers are maintained throughout the country. I disagree with Mr Ballo that a number of the proposed measures are being taken without prior political discussion. The size has adopted the budgetary and activity frameworks for regional health enterprises. The size has also addressed the overall principles that are now underlying the migration processes, including: for emergency and food services. The whole purpose of the reform is for health businesses to have the freedom and responsibility to develop good solutions within the framework of this reform. The overall social development, technological development and medical development make it both a decentralising and centralising feature in the development of healthcare in Norway. It represents unique opportunities to do a good health service even better. If we're going to succeed in this, it's especially important not to cement old forms of work and organization. Through good policy treatment of principles and frameworks, we need to lay the foundation for a quality improvement in the specialist health service in the dynamics of development. It is my intention to further develop the annual notice to Stortinget. The Social Committee asked in its budgetary position, inter alia: on an analysis of the role of local hospitals in a comprehensive healthcare system. This is now being followed up. Furthermore, I would like to emphasise the development of a communication which, in its content, will provide clear budgetary proposals and which will be clear in the health policy positions. Through this system, I would like to invite the Stortinget to a debate on many of the elements that the representative Ballo is drawing on, and to see them in a broad context, including in a resource context. The management documents of the regional health establishments shall be sent out in accordance with the budgetary decision and shall supplement and clarify the decisions taken in this Chamber. I therefore believe that the elected representatives have a strong influence in setting the framework for the decisions taken by health businesses. Once the framework has been put in place, it is important to show confidence that health businesses can find their form within the social system that we have established. At the same time, I, like the representative Ballo, am concerned that the models we have work as intended. Therefore, a critical debate on the specialist health service is positive. I believe that given the complexity and scope of the reform, the two years that have passed are too short to give a final judgment on the quality of the model. It bears the mark of rematch. My starting point is that I still believe in the possibilities of the model to achieve the health policy objectives. However, it requires willingness to assess the functioning of the model in a transparent manner and the willingness to correct what had to develop from poor working methods. That is the will of this Council of States. I have not been involved in proposing this reform and therefore have no record of adjusting things that I am convinced are not working. I'll be in on that. I believe that the time has come to launch a broad evaluation of the business model and its functionality next year. I want to present a plan for that evaluation in the autumn state budget. I therefore believe that the answer to Mr Ballo's main question must be yes. I will contribute to a review of the entire health business model. There I will also provide an external and an international look at the reform. I think we can enjoy that in Norway. I recall that despite the debates going on here at home, the British Medical Journal, supported by the WHO, has designated Norway's health service as the second best in the world. It would have been a state secret, as little as it has been mentioned here in the country. But that's actually the way it is. In this way, I would like to make it possible for the Storting to address an overall evaluation and to assess the need for adjustment of the reform in a context. Central checkpoints for the evaluation and my feedback to Stortinget will be among others. the practice of transparency, on which the representative of Ballo was involved, the functioning of user participation and the functioning of interaction with local and regional political authorities. I am concerned, like others who have taken part in the debate, with the need to improve the interaction, with the better functioning of the relationship between regional health businesses and the states they are set to serve. One of the forms of cooperation that I think is very exciting, and that is now being developed, is in Health Nord, where Health Nord has entered into cooperation agreements with all three county municipalities to this very purpose. That, I think, is an example of succession also for other entities. But here you pick a little bit of different nutrients. At the same time, I would like to remind you once again that the specialist health service is under political control. It is a responsibility for magnification and government to provide political governance with real content through the formal responsibilities established by the model and to give health businesses the freedom and responsibility to which the model also gives. Let me conclude by saying something about the issues that the representative of Ballo deals with regarding wages and pensions. It may well be known that I have reacted very strongly to the spread of relatively favourable pension agreements that have occurred in some health businesses. I have requested a review of this in all regional health companies. That review is still ongoing, and I want feedback during the spring on its conclusions. The government has also taken the initiative to set up new guidelines for remuneration and remuneration for management and governance in state enterprises, on the initiative of the Minister of Industry. It will also be properly briefed on by the Storting. So we've been gripping this, and there's no reason to come back to this repeatedly in an attack on the Government. We've actually considered that this has to be cleaned up. In terms of salary growth, I have not yet received material from the Technical Calculation Committee on the salary growth of doctors in 2003. There appears to be clear indications that this has been partly beyond the framework envisaged. I assume that the parties, among others. For the reasons I have mentioned earlier, I myself carry out critical analyses of this and find a necessary follow-up. It is unacceptable for the enterprise organisation chosen if there is a wage trend that differs significantly from the intended framework. And I personally react relatively strongly to the fact that professional groups that first negotiate such agreements, then go into a game where you point to the Minister of Health and politicians and ask for help to prioritize which patients are not to be treated. It's unworthy. It is a game that politicians should not contribute to – a game that we should, on the contrary, reveal and counteract.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e638	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that the term ‘rematch’ is used in relation to the health reform. I would like to stress that our intention in SV is to find tools that can address the criticism that is now emerging regarding the health company model, and put it into a path where we ensure that the funds are used in a good, constructive and targeted way. It was not by chance that I quoted Bondevik, because he also used the term ‘democratic deficit’ when we adopted the health company reform in June 2001. I think, if you look at part of the criticism that emerged at the time of the debate in the Chamber, that the experience has shown that this criticism had something to do with it. You have to get hold of this in a way that can ensure a kind of leadership that we don't have today. I can see that it looks different from the Council's point of view, because he feels that he gets it on his table. But it is clear that there is a need to go more thoroughly into the processes that are happening, also from the Stortings side, as SV sees it. Then there are two more elements that we're concerned with – more overarching elements. One is that what we see as a kind of structural change, which is outlined in health businesses, is very much influenced by the centralization of services, i.e. smaller units are affected and threatened, and so it's the bigger ones that have to bet on in many ways. There is also an element of privatisation in what is happening, which is not insignificant. An eye-catching statement to the Daily Newspaper on January 31, this year: Professor Bjørn Nicolaissen of Ullevål University Hospital pointed out that operating aid has been granted to private eye doctors, who already initially have a income base of a few million dollars or more. Then you use public money without linking it to commitments. This, in turn, affects the university hospitals, where there is no funding for professorships, and where part of the foundation is lost in relation to the specialisation of assistant doctors. There are ring-fences of both a socio-economic and a social nature that seem to be ignored in the development of health reform. This may seem to be some sort of undue criticism, but it is, of course, an attempt to look at how to target the instruments so that we can get better out of it. I record that the Højbrätt was in Alta and looked at the decentralised offer there – and praised that kind of offer. One of the questions is: how can one stimulate a development that goes the other way, that more offers are located where people live, and that there is an offer, whether it is dialysis or cytotoxic treatment for patients, or, for that matter, hospitals? How can we get a structure that stimulates it, in contrast to the way the structure is now moving towards, the centralization of ever-new services?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e653	I am pleased that the representative Ballo is making a reservation in relation to the term “rematch”, and I remember the signal that is in it. The term 'democratic deficit', quoted by the representative of the then parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, is to the extent an interesting concept in many contexts a day, but let's look at health companies in relation to what we have actually done from this government to ensure good participation and communication with the environment. From the first day we have put great emphasis on transparency in terms of document publicity and communication with the environment. We have put in place a requirement, after trying out different models, for open board meetings, and they should be really open. The type of examples to which the representative Ballo referred, if it is true that the Governing Board meetings are being moved into closing forms, is contrary to instructions from the Government. We have also required user selection from all healthcare companies to ensure good communication with users. And we've demanded that regional health companies add up to a good arena for interaction and interaction with local elected ombudsmen and women in municipalities and county municipalities. It works better and better according to the feedback I get from both sides. Then the representative Ballo raises the question of centralization and decentralization, and it concerns me very much. Because it's not that all aspects of medicine require more decentralization. Some aspects of medical and technological development do so if we are to provide patients with adequate services, but in several areas the opposite is true. The medicine and technology make it possible to provide the services where people live, or closer to where people live, but the systems have not sufficiently captured it. Therefore, as far as I recall with the support of SV, from 1 January of this year, the Government has implemented that the responsibility for the transport of sick persons and the costs in that context has been transferred to health companies, precisely because those who have the savings – by not allowing people to travel – also have the opportunity to gain a benefit from it, which can be invested in decentralised treatment services. In two specific areas, with the agreement of Stortinget, we have introduced tariffs from 1 January, which means that hospital funding can be triggered outside hospitals, i.e. decentralised. This concerns cell toxicity treatment and dialysis treatment. In my self-esteem, I found – even in conversations with patients in Alta – that it works, to the great satisfaction of the patients. This leads to less burden on patients, and it is also a saving for society and health businesses. These are further examples of the fact that we actually operate political governance within the framework of this reform and get results for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e666	In advance of this interpellation debate, the representative Ballo had a chronicle in the VG, on Sunday, I think it was, where he asks the rhetorical question about the Council of State Høybråten is soon alone to defend the health reform. I'm glad to get this opportunity to say that, no, in no way. The Labour Party believes that it was right and necessary to implement what I like primarily to call a responsibility reform in the hospital sector. I feel convinced that the state ownership has come to be, and I believe that any attempt to hold a debate on whether it was wise or not can be a debate on the snow that fell last year – it does not help shape the future, at least. I meet very few people on my journey who believe that the solution to the challenges we are now facing is to counter and restore ownership from the state to the county municipalities. After the first post to Ballo today, I was a bit in doubt whether it was SV that really wanted to, but I choose to take Ballo seriously when he says this is not a rematch. Because I believe and hope that the representative Ballo should turn to the idea that SV can soon join a government that also implements the health reform as best you can. But there is no doubt that what we have done is a very big and demanding reform. And I have said many times from this speaker that it is important that we, who are happy in the health reform, are concerned about changing the reform as progress progresses. I am very pleased with the way the Minister of Health meets these challenges. It would be an illusion to think that everything would be perfect from day one when we were to carry out such a great reform. That is why it is important to have the basic position that we need to adjust along the way, and the Labour Party is prepared to participate in constructive debates in this way. I was a little in doubt, when Ballo had his first post, if we were going to have a debate on the reform, or if we were going to have a budget debate, because what Ballo was primarily concerned about, was cut around in regional health businesses. And then I have to say that if there is one person in this room who does not have the right to be indignant that it is now being cut in healthcare companies, then it has to be Ballo. For it was SV who made proposals in connection with the State budget with the clearly worst financial framework for health businesses of all parties in this room. So if SV had been able to implement its policy, health businesses today would have faced challenges that would have led to significantly greater cuts than what you are actually facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e677	I would like to begin by pointing out that the Council of State has confirmed in its response that there will be a thorough evaluation of the reform, so that we will have a qualified review of the success of the reform in relation to its objectives. However, I would like to point out that it was not the purpose of the reform to strengthen the popular governance at the level of detail, but to reform responsibility. The aim was to strengthen national health policy governance, at an overall level, and to leave more tools to businesses to manage at the level of detail and tools. Experience is as far as I can see, both positive and negative. For the patients, a lot of positive has happened. The waiting time and waiting lists have fallen. We got health again for the first time in 2002 for the money. The necessary steps have been taken in the field of functional distribution, and we have received an increased focus on ensuring professional soundness within, among other things. the emergency functions. I also have a clear impression that financial control has improved. This will be the main objective which will need to be further evaluated. Out of negative circumstances, I would like to point out that enterprises have probably not been able to manage their wage-earnings adequately. Staff and wage policy is one of the key tools given to enterprises, but experience so far in this area is that a significant part of the economic challenge now facing enterprises is due to over-priced wage settlement. The representative, Ballo, initially has in his interpellation a situation description that I do not know about, including. the dismissal of thousands of employees by undertakings. That's not right. It is true, however, that some undertakings have warned that they need to reduce the number of annual works somewhat, but in such large organisations it should not be necessary to use notices to achieve this. The representative of Ballo obviously believes that with more popular governance this had looked different. I would argue that the most important tool for elected government is the state budget. There is therefore reason to re-examine the SV’s draft budget for 2004. They proposed to reduce the hospital budget by NOK 1.2 billion. And if you see "smart" on it, they spent 500 million. NOK of these to other relationships, which might dampen the patient growth somewhat, so that one is left with a cut of 758 million. kr. That's about. 1,517 annual work. To put it this way: I don't think it would have been more patient treatment to replace 1,517 year-old health workers with several year-old county politicians in health companies' boards. I believe that the description given by the representative Ballo of the situation in the companies initially, is more consistent with the situation that would have existed if the SV's proposal for an alternative state budget had been adopted in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e690	This interpellation by the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo is a solid bomber, which hits the interpellant like a boomerang. One gets to accept that opponents of the hospital reform try to reverse as often as possible, but then, in their attacks on the reform, one must, in truth, use an argument that keeps water. The inter-pellant knows just as well as everyone else here in the Chamber that in 2004 enterprises have a very difficult economy – to which the Socialist Left Party has contributed and has given its support. The SV had even a much lower budget proposal for businesses. By the end of 2003, the companies had accumulated a deficit of DKK 2.2 billion, which the Progress Party proposed deleting DKK 1.5 billion. Olav Gunnar Ballo voted against this. The interpellant should also be fully aware that the hospital reform has been underfunded from the very first day, when 800 million had to be brought with it. NOK in deficit from county councils. Most of the claims made in the interpellation are both false and partly very misleading. I have not registered so far this year that it is proposed to be ‘cut in emergency response’ in several local hospitals. I have not registered that ‘thousands of employees’ have been cancelled, or heard in 2004 that hospital departments have been closed. Nor is it correct that there has been a further ‘centralisation and privatisation’ of the healthcare provision in the specialist healthcare service in 2004. That the Radium Hospital and the Rikshospitale are working on merger plans, I think professionally correct and absolutely necessary. However, the fear is that when we reach 2005, the economic situation of enterprises will be so problematic that it will not be possible to maintain current treatment capacities. But we can do something about this. I would recommend to the interpellant to contribute to this happening, that businesses get a better operating economy and more investment funds. Especially on the investment side, the problems are very high in enterprises, and not least the investment in psychiatry and its building mass, in particular the DPSs. I personally find no reason to reconsider the hospital reform. It has, in my opinion, come to be. On the other hand, I strongly doubt whether we should maintain regional health businesses. In my opinion, they have not responded to the expectations. Rather, we should have an agency in the regions that is charged with the order role, and a hospital directorate that takes care of ownership. It is not unknown that the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo swears to political management of the hospitals, which we have tried – with very poor results. I can assure you that in the future the Progress Party will be a solid supporter of the reform and that it will be improved on the professional side.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e707	The hospital reform, where the political decision-making authority was centralised from the regionally elected level to the state, is, in my opinion, the largest depoliticisation reform we have had here in the country in recent times. While the post-war reforms have essentially been shifting political decision-making authority from the central, state level to the county and municipalities, this reform marks the very opposite: the transfer of responsibility and decision-making authority from the regional and local authorities back to the state. Health bureaucrats and professional board members have taken over. In the power and democracy investigation, which we have now received, this is clearly described: ‘Regions previously publicly controlled are left to market players. New control bodies and state supervision monitor the general rules of the game drawn up by political authorities. The reform process involves shifting resources, judgement and policy decisions from political authority to independent directorates and control bodies. The government still has political responsibility, but with reduced power. Developments in the last twenty years have been a long-standing withdrawal of the ongoing decision-making power of political bodies.’ I believe that this centralisation of decision-making powers is becoming more visible in the health and hospital sector than in other areas, because the consequences of the decisions affect so many directly. I don't know how many statements I've read in the last two years – but there are many – from county councils, municipalities, colleges in hospitals and action committees, where protests are being made against emergency preparedness and against the closure or reduction of food departments. Common to all these protests is that they have not been heard, they have not been followed. The process of centralisation is in full swing. To Alvheim, who doesn't know where this is going: In my own home state, it's about Wefsn Hospital, Stokmarknes Hospital and Narvik Hospital. Local political authorities are spectators – and that's what's going to be so wrong. When the Minister of Health announces that the reform will be evaluated, it will be necessary to focus in particular on how local elected bodies can regain decision-making power and once again gain more control over the development of the health sector and the specialist health service. Here I would like to say that the challenge is particularly going to the Workers' Party. The Labour Party has behind it a history from the post-war period; they were put under government responsibility when major reforms were carried out and decision-making power moved from the central level to the local level. When this is to be evaluated, the batch is faced with a special challenge in terms of decentralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e723	The introduction of the health reform made it clear that it is important for the State to provide qualitatively good healthcare to patients. For the Christian People's Party, this objective stands firm. It is important to ensure access to good and safe healthcare, irrespective of residence and economy. If we are to succeed in this, it is important that we have a comprehensive health policy, with laws and regulations that support this. When the interpellant writes that the ‘actions that are being carried out’... ‘does without prior political treatment’, the Christian People’s Party disagrees with this. Health enterprises are obliged to comply with laws, such as: patient rights laws, the psychiatry escalation plan, the cancer plan, patient treatment funding systems or human resources. This has been adopted in the United Kingdom and is an important premise for a comprehensive health policy. The annual government budgets are an important instrument for the good development of health services. This gives policy-makers an annual report on the situation of health businesses and can, on that basis, correct their course if desired. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to have an overall overall plan for health policy in Norway, but the Stortinget should not make decisions that go along with the way the individual department or individual hospital disposes of its resources. Health enterprises have a great deal of freedom to develop good health care within the framework of the annual management documents and budgets. The Minister of Health has shown that he has used his right to review the boards of regional health establishments in several matters of major or fundamental importance. This is political governance, isn't it? Only during March plans are in place to prevent hospital infections. Agreements have been reached on pharmacies in the districts, national health networks have been launched, a new IT strategy has been promoted to ensure better interaction between health and social services and a sample of dental health has been appointed. This shows offensive political governance, while we rejoice that the waiting time in the hospitals is reduced by 16 pst. I would also like to remind you that the Health Authority has the task of ensuring that Storting’s laws and intentions are followed up so that patients receive a good and sound health service. There has been a great deal of concern about closed board meetings in regional health businesses. Here the Minister of Health has shown political determination and changed this. The Christian People's Party agrees with that change and wants as much openness as possible. At the same time, we see that it may be unfortunate to change the pieces of the reform now. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to an evaluation of the entire health reform. We don't think it's found its final form. Although only two years have passed since the reform was introduced, we support the SV’s proposal for a thorough review of the reform now. Debate's good. People show commitment through newspaper posts and torch trains. [[President clubs]] The aim is to obtain services that are characterized by respect for human dignity and care for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e750	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e753	Once again we are served the insinuation that when you are engaged in specialist health care and the situation in health companies, it is just a rematch. It is absolutely right that the Center Party opposed the reform of health companies. However, all the time after it was adopted by a majority here in Stortinget, we have tried to facilitate the best possible conditions for healthcare companies to be treated and to operate a business towards patients so that they have the best possible experience. We want to give health companies and specialist health services conditions so that the values created in the Norwegian health care system can be preserved. It is one of the points in the Norwegian health policy value base that all parties agreed on when we dealt with the health enterprise reform a few years ago. We also want to ensure equal offers for everyone, regardless of their place of residence, economy, gender or social status. It's of the things that people care about today. We have tried to add that the operating frameworks will be good enough. As the Minister for Health said, he wants to implement the reform as it was adopted, with the framework conditions adopted by the Stortinget. But then it's to make those framework conditions good enough! I think it is a bit striking that the Health Minister's party, after the decision, has not wanted to follow this up with a good enough framework. We wanted to expand the operating framework for health businesses by SEK 1.1 billion for 2004, plus that we wanted to strengthen both psychiatry and rehabilitation. We also wanted to cancel debts – at the latest in connection with a Document No. Eight proposals that were dealt with this month and that all other parties voted against. I agree that SV sits a little in glasshouses with regard to the economy and the framework conditions for health businesses, because they probably have the tightest budget for health companies and therefore for hospital operations and the specialist health service for this year. At the same time, it must be allowed to be concerned about part of the structure and development that is now taking place. Removing offers from where people live, relocating and decommissioning functions, resigning professionals, divisions and sections of the subject area, so that good interaction chains disappear and total emergency reception is confusing at the local hospitals, we can't agree. That's what you say, among other things. the construction of a district medical centre. In Eastfold, for example, there are: proposed to have such a DMS in Halden. But without bedposts and emergency medical response, e.g. in the case of internal medicine, the offer must be very poor at such a centre. I hope that we will have a broad evaluation of the health enterprise reform. Among other things, a former Right-State Council, that of Wenche Frogn Selläg, now says that ownership reform has deprived politicians of the necessary governance tools in terms of health policy. Then it is important that we take it back, and that we get a proper debate on how the structure should be in the Norwegian health care system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e768	As you know, the Left voted against the government of hospitals together with the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. We asked questions about the effectiveness of such centralization, not least we deplored the popular and local anchoring, and that hospitals would be severely weakened. On the other hand, we agree with the views of the Council of State on this. I am therefore pleased with his reply today. In government, we have had to deal with the decision taken by the majority and contribute to the implementation of the reform. Good results can certainly be highlighted, as pointed out by the Minister of Health. But the problems left warned against have also proved to be significant. In the debate in Odelstinget on 6 June 2001, our representative, Leif Helge Kongshaug, was involved. Among other things, he said:\t\t You ‘The left is afraid that too much distance between central management and the individual hospital department will lead to inexhaustible conditions and a lack of closeness and good contact. For the Left, people's proximity to the management of welfare services is a value choice, not a technical question. For the Left, a decentralised hospital structure is important, where power and responsibility lie locally.» We've seen the popular involvement in the hospital cases. It's a problem when people locally don't know who to address their views. We have in many ways had a return to a government in this area. Last weekend's national meeting adopted an opinion that again focuses on the democratic anchoring. We want a stronger local public-elected governance of the operation of health businesses, also in the interests of the ombudsman role of politicians in a democratic system. It cannot be taken over by bureaucrats. They have completely different problems. If representatives in this Chamber have not observed this frustration out there among the citizens of the country, it is they who have a problem. We appreciate that the Government will carry out a thorough evaluation of the reform. In this context, the left will contribute to strengthening local political influence over the major and important part of the Norwegian welfare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e786	In fact, I'm wondering what healthcare representative Ballo described. He described a situation where patients do not receive treatment and where offers have been removed. The actual situation is such that many more are being treated, and many more have been seeking treatment. It could not have gone past Ballo and other representatives' house. The waiting time has fallen dramatically and is now on average between 60 and 100 days, if one looks at the health care system across the country. If one asks the patients who have been treated, if they are dissatisfied with the reform, the answer is that they are not, they are happy to have been treated. In fact, the health system is for patients and not for those parties that are opposed to the health reform and that have for years tried to make political coins that there will always be dissatisfaction with health services regardless of system and whatever country we may be in. If some representatives believe that involvement and protests are something new, I would recommend them to go into the archives of their own county municipalities from the time the county council was responsible for the hospitals. I think the material is rich – not least in the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen County, Nordland. Examples from Northern Ireland — yes, none of the proposals proposed by Health Nord in relation to those hospitals were implemented as they wished. They were politically tried, controlled and corrected by the authority of the Minister of Health. The capacity and shortening of waiting time is important, but, as Ballo also mentioned, the quality of healthcare may well be so important. When we get sick, we want the best treatment. If we get seriously ill, we need to make sure that those who are going to take care of us have the necessary skills and do not use the patient as a test object. Therefore, some offers have to be pointed out, more than what we are doing today. The Social Committee, during its visit to Health Mid-Norway, was presented with a study among the hospitals of the region on the quality of surgery of patients with colon cancer. This quality survey showed that the possibility of relapse was very different in the different hospitals, and this is totally unacceptable. I could mention other examples, but I'm going to let that lie, because now is the time. But there is a need to continue working on quality, as the Minister of Health has often stressed, and I hope that regional health companies will follow up on their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e799	The focus of the health reform was to be able to provide better and more equivalent health services across the country. Just because health is so fundamental to all of us, we need to ensure that hospitals are organised so that resources are used for patient treatment and not for unnecessary bureaucracy. Regardless of the financial situation of hospitals, some changes in the functional distribution between hospitals will be imperative in order to ensure professionally sound quality for patients in the future. Medical-technical development is enormous, and it is moving towards increasing specialisation. At the same time, we see that in the future there will be neither enough health professionals nor sufficient patient base to maintain an optimal supply in all areas and in all hospitals. We find concrete examples of this in breast cancer surgery, where there may be significant differences in the results of such treatment depending on competence. While some functions are centralized, we also see that other functions are decentralized. A positive example of this is the recently opened cancer ward at the hospital in Ålesund. The technology contributes to the hospital's functioning as a satellite under St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim and will provide important radiation treatment for cancer patients in More and Romesdal. These patients are being treated in their local environment, and many of them are now not going to travel the long way to Trondheim. OECD figures show that Norway is one of three countries in the world spending the most money on healthcare. At the same time, both OECD analyses and a recent report from the National Audit Office show that resources can be used much better. Increased resources must therefore be accompanied by demands for better organisation. Some political parties are now taking advantage of the demanding situation in the hospital transition to the hospital reform. The same parties believe that only the hospitals get more money, and only the hospitals get more politicians driven, everything gets better. I would therefore like to remind you that the time before the reform was marked by several Corridor Asians and long waiting lists with often unwarranted waiting time for life-saving treatment. Nor should we forget that torch trains and protests against the health service were in fact at least equally widespread under the direction of the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e810	Initially, I would like to say that it is clear that this interpellation bears a certain mark of the resistance of the Socialist Left Party to the health reform initially, and I think we need to see this debate in that light. I want to pay tribute to the Minister of Health who comes from a party that in its time was opposed to the health reform, but has nevertheless made an effort to make it actually successful, and to have the development that was meant for the whole reform. It is a major reform, perhaps the biggest reform we have had in recent times in Norway on health. Everyone knew that changes and adjustments would most likely need to be made in the course of the major change that the reform would entail. When we look at the number of patients actually being treated, we have to say that the reform has worked. It has initially been a successful reform, because the whole point is that as many patients as possible in this country should receive treatment, and that they should be kept as short as possible on any waiting lists. We clearly see that the waiting time is falling, and more and more people are receiving treatment in the Norwegian health system. But in this respect, it should not be a surprise to anyone that treating more patients and getting shorter waiting time actually costs money, which we will have to take over the individual budgets. We're about to have a new round of revised national budgets, and then we'll see what the government comes up with and what the individual parties come up with. The old organisation of the health services where the county was the main actor led to very much one thing in this hall, and it was a shift of responsibility. We constantly felt that a health minister blamed the county municipality, the county council pushed the blame for the lack of money back to Stortinget, and then we were running. It is quite clear that some of the things that have been done in the course of the reform, in particular with regard to the establishment of regional health businesses, have created problems in relation to confidence in the population. We've seen it in terms of pensions, we've seen it in terms of raising wages, and we've seen it in terms of administration. But I think we have to let this reform work for a while before we take our judgment on it on the basis of individuals. I think it's important that we take ourselves in the neck and say yes, we carried out a major reform in a short time. Adjustments have to be made along the way, it's not perfect as it is – I think we can all admit – but we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e823	It is true that the reform was implemented in a short time. I remember that when we asked for legal assistance, we received a response from the Council of State that time was not running out. Just as an example. When SV submitted proposals, it was based on the recognition that the State would assume responsibility. So we did not put in a proposal for an alternative state municipal organisation, but a proposal that went on government organization, but in a way that kept the elected government under control. We warned against the model that was chosen, assuming that it would reduce the popular influence and give people less opportunity to influence the processes that are going to happen. And it's proved to be completely correct. To those who almost stumble a little in relation to previous reactions, even in relation to the county council, I would say that such reactions had at least the strength that they could have the effect that processes that were going on could be affected, so that they might not have closures. I know it well from Finnmark. I don't know how many times I've had a fight to keep hospitals in Finnmark. You had an organ to contact, and then you led the fight. One was quite angry at the fact that such proposals were still coming up, but it was, after all, influential enough from the population to prevent such things from happening. Even if the state is going to continue to operate hospitals, you have to make sure that you have a real opportunity to exercise influence, so that you get healthy and good democratic processes. In connection with this debate, I would like to raise two very central questions. One is: Are the resources correctly used? And the second is: are the funds targeted towards those parts of the health system where the need for resources is greatest? I think there are too many people in this room who take too easy on it. When Bjarne Håkon Hanssen presents it as if SV is busy spending less money on the specialist health service than the majority, it is completely wrong. I pointed that out to him in connection with the state budget when we dealt with it. We had a proposal to use more, but to target the use where the needs are greater. We envisaged, for example: The fact that the Rikstrøgdeverket should not allocate funds to private specialists, but that health care companies should dispose of them would result in savings because, among other things: would prevent wage developments like the one we see today. It is clear that it should be expected that measures that are implemented in a different way will also have an effect, while here it is argued that SV policies should have no consequences other than those of the majority of policies. Of course it does. I would like to say once again that it is very important to give priority to those groups that come out the worst. We see children and young people falling completely out of the timetable for mental health protection, and we see that people who have drug dependence do not get the treatment they should be entitled to. Now let's start targeting the groups of society that get the worst out, instead of arguing for ever better remuneration for those who have the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e838	The last appeal from the representative Ballo, I can fully agree to it. I have not registered that someone in this room has argued for better remuneration for those who have the best. On the contrary, there is a broad political consensus that we should target policy against those who face the most serious challenges, and those who face the most. This is the greatest reform in the public sector of the time. It was adopted in record time, and its implementation time has so far also been quite short – too short to give any final judgment. Following this debate, I can see that there is broad support for my initiative to carry out a thorough evaluation of the reform. It is also a fundamental position in all parties that have been represented in the debate here today that we are open to adjustments along the way. But it is also good to be able to record that it has been confirmed here today that there is a broad majority behind the hospital reform. It is important in the current debate that is ongoing. The representative Ballo and several others have addressed the issue of centralisation or decentralisation of decision-making powers. It is interesting to note that the effect of a desire for stronger political governance in this area is rapidly becoming more centralized, because what you want is that more decisions should be moved into the politically responsible political bodies. It'll be the Minister of Health, or it could be the Stortinget. One should think about whether this is the kind of development that one actually wants, when one asks for stronger political governance. I believe we have clear political governance. I believe that it is an address for the political influence of decisions in the health business system. I believe I have shown, and have also been criticized, that I have actually taken such messages into account in business meetings of all regional health companies. The interesting thing about the debate has been that the criticism has come from both those who have thought that I have interfered too much, and from those who believe that I have interfered too little. If you look at what the Stortinget has gone into on individual matters, I have to say that I find it interesting to note that the one hospital department that SV and the Center were involved in the budget procedure in the autumn was the birth department in Aker. There was concern that women in Oslo West had to be born in Bærum Hospital. I believe that, through the 2004 budget, we have focused heavily on the priority of resource use. We have reduced the ISF rate, we have adopted new provisions in the Patient Rights Act, we have established national systems for quality indicators, we have shown at all that we want targeted resource management.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e853	Case No. So 5 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e864	We then go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e871	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, from Eli Sollied Practices on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. Two, from the Center Party, it's like: ‘The Government is asking the Government to continue to implement the plans for the establishment of a representation facility for the government with Prime Minister’s residence within a framework of 200 million. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e893	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to determine the possible establishment of a Prime Minister’s dwelling with a different location from that proposed. The investigation should assess other sites in Oslo or in the surrounding municipalities that may be suitable as alternative sites.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e922	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a key message discussing general and specific measures to improve service and accessibility at public agencies. As part of this proposal, the Government is asked to discuss the frequency of internal meetings of public agencies. ‘... Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e947	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 23 March 2004: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the treatment provision for women who have been subjected to sexual mutilation, on the basis of the objective of a comprehensive treatment offer which ensures an overall follow-up, both socially and surgically, and which contributes to the voluntary contact of women themselves with the health services for follow-up diagnostics and treatment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-03-30.ana.ud2301e960	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
