ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e28	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e35	Inner. S. No 173 for 2003-2004 contains three main elements. Firstly, an immediate payment of the amount of the uplift to those of the pioneers who we know had, however, received NOK 200,000 later, and, secondly, an increase in the immediate amount from last year from NOK 200000 to NOK 300000, and thirdly, a strengthening of the Contact Phone Foundation's budget for 2004. On March 9, this year, the Storting decided on a system of upliftment and replacement for the pioneers. In dealing with this matter, a quick and effective report was requested. There was a special emphasis on rapid progress, as several divers are in a particularly difficult economic situation. St.meld. No 52 for 2003-2004 is the Ministry’s response to secure those with precarious financial problems. The majority of the committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, believe that it may seem unnecessary bureaucracy to add an immediate aid no. 2, then, in the next round, through the consideration from 1 July, to make payment of the amount of upliftment and compensation. As committee leaders and case spokesmen, I would have liked the whole committee to come together in a unified solution. It has unfortunately not been possible. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party follow the Government, and I have suggested that they themselves do good for their vision. With effect from 1 July 2000, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health paid up to SEK 200,000 to those North Sea divers who had suffered permanent health failure with a reduction in income as a result. The Committee takes the view that the group involved in that scheme is to be regarded as publicly rated pioneer divers with health damage as a result of the dive. This system was administered by the County Street Agency in Rogaland. The majority now believe that it will be unbureaucratic, quick and effective to ask the ministry to pay the sum of $200,000 according to the list of the County Street Office in Rogaland, and therefore promote proposals to that effect. Thus, one will meet the need for immediate help to some of the most economically difficult divers. The scheme from 2000 covers approx. 120 people. So we need 14.8 million. kr more than the Government proposes. There are several groups that are not part of the scheme from 2000. It can be, for example, for divers who did not report in 2000, divers who were under consideration for disability or who have subsequently been diagnosed with health damage, and survivors who were not aware of the scheme. These shall be individually assessed by the denominator. The Contact Phone Foundation has, through the immediate assistance provided last year, also paid funds to those in need who did not come under the scheme from 2000. Some of these people need additional emergency care. The individual in question can get this help if we raise the maximum amount from last year from NOK 200000 to NOK 300000 – that is why there is a proposal today. This is in the case of repayable funds, in the same way that the immediate relief last year was advance compared to the final stated. The majority refers to letters from the Council of State of 5 May. It appears that such an extension does not require any additional means. The Contact Phone Foundation even budgeted NOK 950,000 more for operations in 2004 than they have been promised, including for cover of deficits from last year, a deficit which has arisen as a result of additional work on the part of the Ministry. We argued that the foundation has funds to strengthen the work of debt counseling and other guidance, and we suggest that they receive what they have applied for. Then the Committee is aware that the Contact Phone Foundation has asked for funds for an own project to monitor survivors after death among the pioneer divers, an application the Department has refused. The reason is that the investigation commission has already investigated these aspects. Several deaths have occurred after the period 1965–1990, i.e. other than the time on which the Commission takes account of its work. The entire committee believes that there may be reason to consider any death after 1990, including any suicide, and therefore ask the department to consider how such work can be done. The Contact Phone Foundation has a very special task. I would like the Council of State to note the need that is too close, but at the same time clear, dialogue between the Foundation and the Ministry. I hope he does his thing. I also ask him to clarify the progress when it comes to the need for a prompt payment of the amount of upliftment.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e61	I want to start by giving credit to the Council of State for a quick response when, in the previous round, the Storting decided to find ways to resolve a difficult economic situation for some of the pioneers. It did not take long for the proposition to be processed in Stortinget after the Storting had asked for such a case. In my post in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 47 for 2002–03, I stressed that many pioneers have problems mastering everyday life — not only in psychosocial matters but also often in combination with economic problems. The Labour Party therefore believed that it was unproblematic to put in place an immediate payment of NOK 200000 for those who had an acute economic problem. That's why I think there's reason to praise the department for a quick follow-up. What is not so good is the way one suggests that this solution should be administered immediately. For the majority, it might seem that the ministry is setting up a more bureaucratic system than is necessary, a system that will take longer than is necessary. That is why I am pleased that a number of members of the Committee wanted a different solution, as the case-speaker also stressed in his article – a solution that, in our opinion, will help to speed up the procedure and speed up the payment. It still surprises me that the government party has chosen to stand outside of this plurality, and, in my opinion, a system that has proved itself to take a little longer. I personally believe that it should have been possible to get a broad settlement in this matter. I see it as unproblematic that this solution is followed immediately by the name list of the County Strategy Office in Rogaland, which was used when the North Sea divers received a single payment through the Social and Health Ministry's scheme in 2000. This will capture the vast majority of those who have the economic difficulty in their everyday lives. Some divers may not be caught by this, but there are probably a few. In relation to this, the majority would like to make use of the immediate assistance provided last year by raising the maximum amount from NOK 200000 to NOK 300000. In addition, of course, the majority see the need to provide an additional grant to the Foundation Contact Phone for the Pioneer Divers.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e78	During the review 9 March this year by St.meld. No 47 for 2002-2003, the review of the conditions of pioneers in the North Sea, there was broad consensus in this room to ask for rapid and effective settlement. Several of us were busy getting a fast propulsion, because several divers are in a particularly difficult situation. Therefore, I am very pleased that the Government was able to promote St.prp even before Easter. No 52, where they want to ensure a quick follow-up. On the right, I would like to state that the Government's proposal for a new emergency aid scheme would have ensured that the pioneers who are in an acute and precarious economic situation had immediate help. The scheme is targeted at those who are actually in a difficult economic situation and who therefore have an urgent need for assistance – even in the period leading up to the compensation and upliftment system adopted by the Stortinget – will take effect from 1 July this year. An important point for me is also that the scheme proposed in St.prp. No 52, ensure equal treatment and will reach those who are in an acute and precarious situation, regardless of the time when they were in financial difficulties or were in default. In addition, the Government's proposals are designed in such a way that the framework and content of the scheme adopted by the Stortinget during the examination of St.melding. paragraph 47 is not amended. I cannot help but understand that the majority's proposals here today would mean that otherwise similar cases could now be treated differently. This is closely related to the list of the County Street Office in Rogaland, which only embraces those who were ill-adapted in 2000. Those pioneers who do not have a disability degree from 2000 or who have a medical disability of more than 15 p.p. will not be paid the amount of 200,000 kroner now. These divers will have to rely on any payments from existing immediate aid scheme — provided that the ceiling is lifted. A condition to be considered in this context is a precarious and acute economic situation. This condition will not apply to those on the 2000 list. The result is then an arbitrary discrimination, which I cannot see justifying. Although the majority's proposal involves the advance of parts of the treatment previously proposed by the Stortinget, I believe that the committee should nevertheless carry out the assessments requested by the Stortinget in the past. I would also like to underline the value of the fact that both the Foundation Contact Telephone for the Pioneer Divers and the Department have gained experience through the first emergency aid scheme on how to process and disbursement as quickly as possible. This system means that the Foundation Contact Telephone for Pioneer Divers is responsible for the processing of applications for new immediate assistance and for cancelling applications to the Ministry for Disbursement. Such a process, in which the individual’s economic situation is reviewed, provides individual debt advice and practical assistance to the individual in dealing with a difficult economic situation. These experiences would have helped to ensure an unbureaucratic and rapid management of the new emergency aid scheme. Then there is also a point that we had just after Easter adopted what the government proposed just before Easter, the money would have been in the account of the divers who are in the most precarious and acute economic situation – fast and unbureaucratic. On this basis, I allow myself to promote the minority proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e97	The representative Hans Kristian Hogsnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e100	The rapporteur and other representatives have now explained most of the matter. Therefore, there is only a need for a brief contribution from the Progress Party. The line of progress has always been that the pioneers in the North Sea, who have suffered health damage as a result of pioneering on the base, will receive a fair upliftment and compensation in proportion to the efforts they have made, and the damage that their efforts have done to them. We will also follow this line in this case. The Progress Party, together with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, therefore forms a majority in order to secure a total of 24 million. kr as a contribution to the pioneers in the North Sea. This appropriation represents an increase of 14.8 million. kr in relation to the proposal and is the result of the fact that the County Street Agency in Rogaland, which administers the scheme, refers in its lists to an additional consumption of 14,8 million. kr in relation to the proposition. In July 2000, the pioneers who have suffered permanent health damage as a result of diving work on the base received a lump sum of up to NOK 200,000. This scheme was administered by the County Street Agency in Rogaland. Several pioneer divers have not been included in the scheme since 2000. The Progress Party – and the majority – suggests that these are individually assessed by the denominators. The Contact Telephone Foundation has also paid assistance to North Sea divers who did not come under the scheme from 2000, and it is now apparent that some of them need additional immediate financial assistance. We will also follow this up, by enabling some to get the necessary help by raising the maximum amount from up to NOK 200000 to up to NOK 300000. The majority, the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre therefore propose that payments be increased from up to DKK 200 000 to up to DKK 300000 for the pioneers who come under the emergency aid scheme of June 2003. The advance party sees no need to squander small money against those of the pioneer divers who are currently struggling with sensitivities that they suffered in the first pioneering period on Norwegian pedestal. The Progress Party wants to make a positive contribution to helping these people who made such an important effort for our country. Pioneer divers’ efforts were most committed to making Norway one of the world’s richest countries. Now it is the nation's simple duty to give some of the wealth of the pioneers the basis for, back to those of the divers who sacrificed their health and their future in the pioneer days on Norwegian soil. The party of progress is proud of each krone we agree to grant to these people who meant so much to the country, but who unfortunately – several of them – had to pay the price with their own lives and their own health at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e115	It is because this has been an extraordinary matter from the very beginning, that it is important to follow up what was promised. There has been an extraordinary haste, precisely because the damage many of these North Sea divers have been caused, has been of such a nature that they have also caused major financial problems. Therefore, it has been extremely important for the SV, and also for the majority, that the arrangements promised during the debate when we last discussed the matter could be implemented so quickly that the most acute crisis for many of the North Sea divers could be remedied. That's why it was with disappointment – I have to admit – that when we went into the regime that the Government proposed, we found it difficult to achieve the goal there. The best thing would have been if we had agreed on it; that they it was, at all, did not feel sure that this was the arrangement that could give them the help they needed, quickly. SV is therefore pleased that we in the Committee were able to reach a majority who proposed to establish a system – or so far more – that could, in our view, meet what was important, namely that payments should come quickly to those who need it the most. Therefore, it is with a little wonder that I record that the government parties still believe that the government's system had been faster and less bureaucratic. My main concern now is to assure me that the Government will follow up the majority proposal quickly, so that this matter comes to the fore, and that those who are in urgent need of money will receive the money they are in any case entitled to. That's what we're concerned about. I hope that the government's solution to this issue has not been achieved, the government will follow up on the guidelines that the Storting is now adopting.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e126	The North Sea divers have received a historically high compensation for the damage caused by the North Sea adventure. This case is about the immediate aid as a total accumulation promised those who are in an acute economic difficult situation. Why, then, are we not quite a few? The Christian People's Party believes that what will be agreed today is useful and will satisfy both some who have acute problems and some who may not. Our solution is better to eat against those who actually have problems. What is illegitimate in this matter is that the choice of a new model has taken time for the plurality, while the main point was to be quick. We're probably going to have a bigger replacement after 1 July. So the government delivered very quickly. Just before Easter, this matter came to Stortinget, and Stortinget has spent a longer time. That's not satisfying. But let's gather that today we deliver, and I both believe and know that the pioneers who are in an acute, precarious situation, now they get the money without further delays.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e139	The important thing now is to establish a mechanism to help those pioneer divers who are in such a precarious economic situation that they need a rapid supply of money to avoid serious financial problems in the period leading up to the entry into force of the compensation and upliftment scheme. That was why, after the debate in Stortinget on 9 March, I paid great attention to keeping a high pace in promoting a proposal for an immediate aid scheme, and that was why the Government promoted St. pp. No 52 on immediate action for the pioneers already early in April. I believe that when I presented the landfill proposal, I followed up the Stortingen's wish for an immediate aid scheme, so that they met those who had an acute economic problem that was to be resolved before the final solution fell into place. I note, however, from the position of the Municipal Committee that the majority nevertheless proposes a different solution to that proposed by the Government. I believe that the Government's proposal for a new emergency aid system ensures that those divers who are in an acute and precarious economic situation get help quickly. The scheme is thus more focused, in the sense that it is those who actually have financial problems that are being ensured help. The system ensures equal treatment, and will reach those divers who have financial problems, regardless of when they have economic difficulties, and regardless of health status. These considerations are not as addressed by the solution proposed by the majority. Payments based on the list of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health at the time will be made to divers who have been assessed under conditions other than those set out in the Innst proposal of the Stortinget. S. No 137. At the same time, there was no assessment theme in this scheme as to whether he had urgent financial problems. At the same time, the Committee proposes that those Divers who have not received compensation from the old scheme may receive a total of NOK 300000 from the existing immediate aid scheme, which, for most of them, would involve an additional payment of a maximum of DKK 100000. A prerequisite for such a payment is that the pioneer diver is in a precarious and acute economic situation. I see that this can mean a discrimination that can be perceived as unlucky. The size has determined that the final compensation and upliftment scheme should be administered by a government-designated name. The scheme will enter into force no later than 1 July 2004, and I am in the process of reducing the number, which will take its decisions on an independent and professional basis. The proposals of the majority may have the effect of prioritising parts of the proceedings of Stortinget i Innst. S. No 137 have provided that the name is to be given – also in relation to the issue of payment and upliftment. I therefore believe that the group will also make the assessments requested by the Stortinget in the past. Having said that, I note that the majority has a different assessment of exactly this, and I will of course immediately follow up the Storting decision in this matter. I want to provide an easy and non-bureaucratic handling and make sure that payment can take place quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e156	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e160	I also like to hand out honey to the council when he ignites it, and he eats it today, at two points. The only thing is that he followed the Storting so quickly and left St. pp. No 52. The second is that today he confirms that he will immediately follow up his decisions in the majority. The majority do not see any contradiction between the criteria adopted on 9 March and the requirement set out in the scheme of 2000, i.e. the requirement for disability. But I've done the right thing in my article so that there might be other groups. I have to say that there are two articles today that I react very strongly to. It's the posts of the representatives Hogsnes and Apelthun Seele, who both stood on this pulpit and said that if the Stortinge had gone for the government, the pioneers would have received their payments earlier. Let me then take a quick review of the spring calendar. It is easy for the government to come forward with its proposal on Friday 2 April, i.e. the last Friday before Easter. Then it is that the Storting did not come together again until two weeks had passed, and in the first week – week 17 – all the members of the committee who were to deal with this matter were on their respective trips. This means that the Committee spent a week and a half on this matter. It's actually also so that a multiple established itself quickly. The reason why we spent as much time as one and a half weeks was because, if possible, we could also get the government party into the same multiples that were already settled. If there is anything in the production that does not match, Hogsnes and Apelthun Säle will cancel it. I think that's the way it is, and then I actually thought the whole committee should say that one doesn't want to know that there's someone here saying that we've spent a long time. Let me finally say: I am very pleased that the Council of State has so clearly said that he is now following up this case on behalf of all the divers for whom this means a lot. It is very good that one and a half months after the matter was presented, including Easter, we have come to where we are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e173	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2745]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e193	We've got to work before we can make any use of it! Innovation is therefore crucial to maintain viable communities and good welfare services around the country. In Dagbladet on 10 May, three central government councils are behind the chronicle «See the Opportunities». Here it is done well for the Government's strategy on how to get more creative job creators. Through a holistic education system, it is necessary to ensure that today’s school students and students become not only future workers but also future workers. This is very good and it is absolutely necessary that we become competitive in the long term. The school has a responsibility to stimulate creative creativity. Focus must be placed on the positive aspects of entrepreneurial activity and on taking the initiative of value creation. Inclusion of entrepreneurship in training will help children and young people to believe in themselves and to see and use local resources as a basis for job development. Qualities such as cooperation and progress must be provided through the training system and by countering the law of the jante and recognizing inventors and others who are engaged in their own business development. But becoming a successful founder requires hard and long-term work. It is close to me to show, for example, my home country, Rogaland: in the local environment, business start-ups are honored, they become a honorary group. Many toes to start up yourself, and get help from a drifting establishment environment. The schools have long had student businesses. Overall, this is a position which could have been better, but which nevertheless means that Rogaland is one of the leading states in terms of job creation and job renewal. I also want to bring out the major business of Titania. It's a mining company, which failed in shiftwork and heavy work has an unusually low sick leave. It's because it's an unusually good working environment and a very nice business management. It is an IA company that shows the way – it is possible if the rentals and employees are cut off. On the same day, 10 May, we can read in the Newspaper that active health care reports give longer absences from the job than regular health care messages. It appears that active medical report as a means of getting the sick person back to work has not been produced. However, if the agreement between the Government and the social partners on a more inclusive working life would contribute to less sick leave, the result is the opposite. But, fortunately, there are exceptions. Figures from the Swedish National Agency show that the disease absence has increased by 96 pst. in the last ten years, while the number of disabled persons in the same period has increased by 27 pst. When we know that the state pays nearly 85 billion dollars a year for daily allowances, sick pay, reintroduction and disability, it is quite clear that both countries and people have literally come up with a disability! If the intention of the IA agreements had been fulfilled, society could have about $10 billion. more for innovation and other purposes. These are staggering amounts of money, and it's completely meaningless to pay so much money to keep people out of work. No one has any use for it. Therefore, there is reason to ask whether there is a basis for building on this agreement, or whether it is completely flawed, or whether it can be implemented in order to make it work. One of the most important reasons why people are away from work today is that they are in the workplace. Employers therefore play a very central role in the fight against sick leave. Workplace needs to be organised. Then a worker can meet at work even if he does not know 100 pst. fresh. This is an important moment when people don't pick the bed instead of the job when the delivery isn't on top. All must agree that reduced working capacity for periods is better than no work effort. Physical activity is a positive and necessary contribution to the mental and physical health of the people. There is a lot to get if both employees and employers focus on physical training both during working hours and leisure time. A few minutes of trim daily can provide great health and work benefits, making individuals more robust and tolerating physical and mental stress. With 300,000 unemployed persons of working age and approximately 100 000 unemployed persons. 100,000 who are away from work every day are challenged to go through the situation. Such a development cannot continue. The question is how we can better use the resources to get people to participate in the work life, not stay away from work. In the last few days, we have been informed that many communities are at risk of high unemployment as a result of the fall in corner stone holdings. This will be avoided through a joint effort by enterprises and the public. Other communities report weak international competitiveness, especially in the fishing industry. High production costs and wages that lie high above what they have in low-cost countries such as China and Poland make it impossible to compete on price. Norway will never become a low-cost country. We therefore need to develop quality top-notch competence. We must be the best! We must be in the front when it comes to technology, design and competence. This is how we will be able to secure many good, stable and forward-looking jobs. Today's youth can and will do both. But they depend on the public building up under inventors and founders and facilitating innovation and re-establishment. Unfortunately, many have experienced obstacles and heavy red tape when new ideas are to be put into practice. The simplification of the legislation and the form field is a track that needs to be developed further. Bureaucratic schematics may not stop dawning creativity. Norway needs to become simpler in this area as well. It is of great national value that one places great emphasis on these challenges. The government's plan for holistic innovation policy, From idea to value, where the vision is to make Norway one of the most innovative countries in the world, is a right strategy, to which I join. But getting their work capacity is also of great individual value. Work and participation is a good thing that gives access and inclusion in many other areas of society. The unemployment rate can be bad and difficult for the victims and families around. Being financially self-helped through work is important for self-responsiveness, mental health and social contact. Work is also the most important safeguard against poverty. We say it in the words: The work adjourns the man. Today we had said it in a gender-neutral way, but the notion of such a saying is well known. It means an enormous amount to be at work, to maintain self-respect, to be able to do something meaningful and get recognition from your community environment. Human labour is society's most important resource. We must never accept a development where this resource is being wasted. Therefore, my question to the Minister of Labour and Administration is: What is the Government's strategy to link human resources to the need for innovation?
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e229	It is right, as the representative Gedrem points out, that there is a strong focus on innovation and long-term work to increase competitiveness in Norwegian business. The government wants to facilitate increased value creation in the Norwegian economy. There is the possibility of work for all, regardless of the individual's starting point, which is not least behind the large exposure in this area. The dynamics of working life are great. In total, more than half a million jobs are available in a year, and Aetat distributes more than 300,000 individuals each year. Continued growth and innovation require the rapid dissemination of job vacancies to businesses and to enterprises with the best prospects for future profitability. The development of quality in the education system ensures that new entrants on the labour market have the necessary skills. This needs to be further stimulated by focusing on local environments of competence. Interactions between education and research institutions, business, local capital and good people need to be further strengthened in order to promote innovation and changeability. In particular, the public sector operator has a high responsibility to play the role of coupling box. The fight against unemployment has the highest priority of the Government. The goal of getting the most of us to be able to manage ourselves through our own income is very important to the Government. Labour market policy has both a short-term and a longer-term perspective. In the short term, it consists in reducing unemployment by helping to fill the job vacancies quickly. In the longer term, work is linked to good framework conditions, where the challenge is to promote a flexible and well-functioning labour market. In particular, social security schemes, including the design of pension systems, will have a major impact on the functioning of the labour market. It is necessary to facilitate a better link between labour and new enterprises. We need to have legislation that takes sufficient account of rapid changes in working life, shifts in economic cycles, levels of employment and the organisation and ownership of enterprises. Treatment of the suspension of the Employment Act Committee could provide an important basis for taking account of the increased requirements for flexibility. The government is working purposefully to create a more user-oriented and more efficient administration. New forms of financing in labour market policy are part of this work. The primary objective is to improve the quality of services to each job seeker through a stronger focus on what individuals need. Some of the trials involve the launching of services and the use of several actors in the dissemination and qualification of jobseekers. The schemes provide for increased activity and more efficient use of resources so that more job seekers can receive an offer – an offer adapted to the actual situation of the individual. They also contribute to making Aetat’s efforts even more flexible in relation to ever-changing labour market challenges. The government’s vision is to make the labour market as self-regulatory as possible, with a high level of professional participation. Active efforts are being made to facilitate a more flexible and inclusive working life, where all available workers are put into service – including out-of-work groups. Through the Intention Agreement on a more inclusive working life, the Government has joined forces with the parties on a broad mobilisation to reduce sick leave and increase professional participation. It is a very important work, which the Government takes very seriously, and which for me is one of the most important political tasks. These are individuals who have the same desire as us, namely to be able to take care of themselves through their own work, and who have the same desire as us to be able to contribute to a community through our own work. It is labour that is currently out of the labour force, the nation needs to be valued in the future. I have just had a meeting with the social partners, where we have discussed the further follow-up to the IA agreement. I am pleased to note that there is a broad consensus that the negative development in relation to sick leave should be halted. I experience a broad consensus that the social partners have the primary responsibility to bring the IA agreement into each company, and all the parties to the IA agreement are broadly in agreement that we are now going to have a strong focus on everything that goes well. Just as the representative Gedrem said, there are many companies that are part of the IA agreement that do a work that produces results. Indeed, more than 1,200 enterprises from the fourth quarter of 2002 to the fourth quarter of 2003 reduced sick leave by more than 10 pst. There is evidence that targeted employment between workers and employers produces results. Most jobseekers obtain jobs on their own. For people who are not immediately able to take part in a regular job, many Aetat’s actions are relevant. The first priority is for young people, immigrants and long-term unemployed jobseekers who need qualification and training to get to work. Labour market training is important in order to provide the labour market with the required skills. Labour practices and wage subsidies are also schemes that can facilitate labour market adaptation. In recent years, there has been an increase in the influx of disabled people to Aetat. It is related to the objective of trying more people to recover before considering disability pension, reactivation of disability pensioners, mental health escalation plan and follow-up to the IA agreement on a more inclusive working life. This is why we have strengthened Aetat both with staff, with action places for people with disabilities and through the efficiency of instruments and the organisation of the establishment. It focuses more on individual follow-up and tailoring based on individual needs and assumptions, and I am confident that it will deliver results. Never before have more disabled persons been assisted by Aetat and participated in labour market measures. The government has also proposed in the RNB an increase in measures for people with disabilities to provide 750 new places of action, in addition to those we already have. Work on the coordination of Aetat, the social service and the social security system is also important in helping more people with disabilities to get into work. I myself had the pleasure of opening a new service office in the representative Gedrem's own home state yesterday morning, namely Hundvåg and Storhaug service office in Stavanger. There, the three agencies – work, social security and social security – have merged into a service office to ensure that we deal with individuals according to the individual's overall needs, and by ensuring that every individual who wants to get out of work receives a follow-up and an assistance that makes us more successful in the goal of getting more people out of work, so that individuals can manage themselves. Finally, a few words about innovation and the important work of the innovation plan to get more people to start their own business. I want to stay particularly with the representative Gedrem himself, namely young entrepreneurship, working with student companies and working with entrepreneurship in education. It's an unusually important work. We know that will produce results, and we know that it will enable Norway to create more new businesses in the future. I have been working closely with young entrepreneurship over several years, and I experience that youth through running a student enterprise together and through participating in young entrepreneurship develops new attitudes. It creates greater tolerance, because young people learn that there are many people and different qualities that are needed to succeed in starting their own economic activity. I also think that will help us generally break down barriers to start our own business. I also believe that there will be room to take advantage of several of the forces that are currently outside the ordinary working life, which are described as disabled people, precisely because at an early stage, young people both learn and want to establish their own business, but not least see that we need people with different characteristics to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e262	I thank the Council of State for an offensive and comprehensive response to this challenge. I feel that the initiative he presented is a right way to go. There are small steps towards a necessary adjustment of the course and the focus of society, to ensure the necessary innovation of jobs, and to make society more mentally mindful that the most important thing for people who are affected by illness for some reason is to return to an active situation – for the sake of the social economy, but not least for personal well-being, security and worth of life. I'm talking to a social security officer a while ago. Then he said that when people come and get dismayed, the first question they ask is how much they are allowed to work without being taxed. It occurred to me that here the public must provide more for a combination of health status and the residual work opportunities that it has at any time. I think it's very gratifying, what has now happened, that the government has introduced an assessment on certain milestones, on whether residual work opportunities are increasing, and facilitate a greater share of professional participation. It's a right and necessary way to go. I also want to point out, like the Council of State, that we have some success stories. The project on inclusive working life has presented some companies that have been closed down in this cooperation, where responsibility lies on the parties to create a good working environment and ensure that the individual does not become the victim of disease. The prevention is always the best. It is also of great importance that the many transformation processes that will always shape business are well managed, otherwise it can easily lead workers out of work, and lead to more disease-related problems than sparks, job losses and job opportunities. I would also like the Council of State to strengthen its important role in bringing people back into a more professional normal situation. I also hope that the Council of State is willing to put energy into this work and focus on it in the overall work done by the Government to achieve a good result in this important field. It is necessary to focus on a common objective and adequate tool from the individual worker, employer and public.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e273	It's with great commitment I go into the work around inclusive working life. It is about the everyday lives of individuals, it is about doing a job and achieving results that strengthen the dignity of individuals, and it is about giving people with a working capacity the opportunity to participate in the working life and to use their abilities. It is a responsibility that is incumbent on us as an authority, it is a responsibility that is the responsibility of the individual, and it is, to the greatest extent, a responsibility of the employers. I will, as I also underlined in my main post, participate actively with the parties in developing an IA agreement that produces results. As an employer in my country, I want to make the state go ahead and show others that we are going to use resources that are currently in passivity. It is a meaningful work, because it is a matter of individuals who, through targeted work, can create security through their own income. But it's also about such an important issue as giving people the opportunity to help create values and move from expenditure to income. In the next round, this will result in freedom of action for government and big business, which means that we can invest more money in a future that can ensure the well-being of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e280	It is important to pursue an offensive policy on the line of work. The government has an excessively defensive attitude to these questions. The Labour Party has for a long time been warning against the developments we are seeing. We have a large unused reserve of labour in the country when well 100,000 people are completely unemployed. More than 80,000 people are reintroducing, and more are moving to early retirement or other social security schemes. Today, more than 300,000 people go on disability, and we have a high long-term absence. This shows that we are not on the right track. It is important to facilitate innovation, industrial development and, not least, a working life with the most space possible. Here I mean that the government is failing. Work ensures individual income, a social network and, in particular, the ability to use their abilities and resources regardless of whether you are ill, disabled or belonging to an ethnic minority. It is and must be a primary goal that most people can support themselves through their own work. That's good distribution policy. This means that we have to put in forces to prevent increasing unemployment. It's a much better medicine than repairing if worklessness gets stuck at a high level. In addition to the groups pointed to by the interpellant, there is no doubt that the elderly are also an outsourced group in the labour market. We'll see about that. older people more than younger people have to leave work in connection with conversion and depopulation. Lack of skills in relation to new demands is thus an important explanation of why many older people have problems with keeping a job, or possibly getting a new job. In addition, it is important to be aware that there are several older people on the labour market by increasing the age group from 55 to 66 by 20 pst. over the next five years. Labour must be organised in such a way that greater flexibility is possible, and this means that the tax and social security system needs to be improved in order to combine work and social security. Social security and social security must also be set up to encourage some work to be possible and profitable. I see that time is going very fast. In the end, I just want to say that I'm very happy that the council here signals that he's very much in favour of the IA agreement, as opposed to his party leader, Right-Leir Solberg, who calls it voodoo.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e295	Researchers have found that the future of a country depends on three words that all begin at t: talent, technology and tolerance. In Norway, we're pretty good at the first two and we think we're world champions in the last t, tolerance. It is not difficult to understand why economic three never grow into heaven. Hard work and precision are two important prerequisites for economic success. Economic success is a threat to both. Why continue to work as hard when you already have a lot, and why not use the abundance you have? With one third of the labour force on social security and a consumption that explodes, the answer is given: without the ability to collective neglect, the future welfare level will be lower than the current one, at least in relative terms. That is why Mr Gedrem's question is very important: how do we get more people to work? Some of the most important policymakers can do is ensure that those who want to work and create new jobs have a framework that allows them to do so. It is often those who are not like everyone else who has this possibility. How often does a founder who is a complete A4 meet? This government has lowered taxes, reduced interest rates and organized an innovation-focused tool, and is actively working to get the Norwegian Jantelova out of it. In addition, this government adds to a school system in which we are to acquire talent. So I think we're going to have a brighter time in terms of a working life that wants to get hold of both young academics, who have not yet been set up, immigrants, who can contribute with different thoughts and experiences than the mean Northman has, and disabled people, who, in the experience they have at the human level, often have different angles to the issues. Innovation is doing things differently. A company that wants to develop and become ever better needs a staff with a lack of skills. A team of workers with the same background and education will not be very creative. On the other hand, putting together a team where more people have different backgrounds, both culturally and in relation to sex, education and age, is likely to have a much more creative team, and creativity and innovation are closely linked. Dying breaks and shortages create innovation. I therefore believe we will see that the companies that in the future will be the most innovative, and thus competitive, will have a varied workforce. We must provide such enterprises with a good example of follow-up. Recently, the results of the tax FUNN scheme in 2003 have been presented. A total of 3 500 projects were approved in 2003. The total project volume is estimated at NOK 9 billion. Some of the projects are multi-year-olds, so that the total project volume up to 2007 is estimated at NOK 25 billion. Tax FUNN has thus triggered a major innovation effort in companies. There is reason to believe that at least some of these projects will attract young academics, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e310	As both the Council of State and the inter-pellant were involved in their interventions, the fight against unemployment is one of the most important tasks of the country. The goal of maximising value creation is an overall objective. The fact that as many as possible of the country's inhabitants have a gainful job is the main basis for both private and public wealth and well-being. However, finding the right balance between the interests of a well-functioning and competitive labour market on the one hand and fiscal and welfare policies on the other is a difficult political challenge. In an increasingly globalised world, there is a limit to how much we in Norway can charge our businesses with taxes and taxes to finance our well-being, when we know that taxes and taxes are an essential part of the production costs of businesses. Consequently, the level of taxes and charges is an important competitive factor for many Norwegian enterprises and jobs. The national framework conditions for business must not deviate too much from international business framework conditions if we want to maintain and create new jobs in Norway. The government could have done more in recent years to lower taxes and taxes, so this would have benefited Norwegian businesses and Norwegian jobs more. Another problem is that in Norway we are not particularly distinguished by creating new businesses. Too few Nordics start their own businesses. We have a culture in Norway that the best thing to do is to be a worker, and this may have many reasons. First, every year we've had a school that's been designed to train employees. Entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial culture have been largely absent from Norwegian schools. I think this has to change. Early schooling must help create interest and guide students in how to create their own jobs, and not just focus on becoming an employee. Schools must provide young people with the skills to establish their own business. Schools need to stimulate students to become creative, to become inventors. Students need to be motivated and trained to develop their own business ideas at an early age. I am therefore very pleased that both the Council of State and the interpellant were involved in this in their contributions. When – or should we say that day – schools see it as an important goal to stimulate entrepreneurs and to talk about innovation and drive the entrepreneurial spirit of young people and think about employers, much is done to get a value-creating and well-functioning labour market in Norway in the future. Few things are more important than just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e321	There are important issues that the interpellant addresses here today. Of course, I am pleased that it is focused on creating new jobs and on innovation. The transformation of existing business is crucial if we are also to be competitive in the long term. Production patterns need to be changed towards a more sustainable production and not least a more sustainable and environmentally friendly consumption pattern. But sustainability is also a question of social relationships. A working life that shocks people, who don't have room for disabled people or immigrants, is a cold work life. Fortunately, in the case of newly educated academics, this group has the advantage that it is a time-limited state, without depriving me of the challenges this group faces. Although I quickly got a job after finishing school, I was able to feel the slightly turbulent feeling of the stomach of uncertainty. If anyone should be in doubt – scholarships and research jobs do not grow on trees. On the contrary, we have a long way left to achieve the objective of being at an average OECD level in research. Here in Norway, we have a huge challenge, not least in terms of investing in basic research. Indeed, today’s business life does not necessarily demand and is willing to pay for is what is most relevant to the business life of the future. Recently, the so-called Labour Law Committee presented its position. It is obvious that the sample’s legislative proposals do not respond to the major work environment challenges posed by the globalised market economy. A new labour law must aim to protect the lives and health of workers in a working life where the demand for short-term benefits predominates and where the transitions and efficiencies of workers are worn out. It must help to restore a lost balance of power between workers and employers in the workplace. This is a legislative proposal that will reinforce the challenges pointed out by the interpellant. On the contrary, this is a legislative proposal that will contribute to an exclusion from the labour market. In particular, it is worrying that the sample recommends an embellishment in terms of temporary employment. Flexibility has become one of the honours of this debate. But the question to ask is: flexibility for whom? It is not that increased flexibility for employers necessarily benefits the employee, and especially not groups that initially put at the back of the queue on the labour market. In addition, SV believes that an orderly and inclusive working life is for the benefit of all parties in the long term, both in the interests of long-term sustainability and future competitiveness. I hope that interpellant, as a representative of the government parties, remembers this.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e336	The interpellant raises an important debate and points to the many dismayed. The public debate in the future should focus more on reducing the number of unskilled people and making working life easier for those who do not have the opportunity to participate in 100 pst., not primarily to save money, but to make life better for many of those who are currently struggling with their mental and physical health, or for other reasons have a reduced working capacity. The number of disabled people in Norway, as we have already heard in the debate, has passed 300,000. It is frighteningly high, especially in relation to the fact that Norway is the world’s best country to live in. The causes of such developments are many and complex. I would like to take this opportunity to focus on those people with a high level of assistance, such as the disabled. persons with drug problems, mental illness or mental retardation. The Christian People's Party is committed to the organisation of jobs, the so-called VTA companies, labour market enterprises, work with assistance, functioning according to their intentions. The aim is to participate in work for marginal groups in need of assistance in the work situation. As for everyone else, job participation will also increase the quality of life and self-esteem for these people. The interpellant points to the need for innovation and asks for innovation measures. The newspaper Tromsø could announce that the VTA company, Tromsø ASVO, had to expand because they are engaged in innovation. These are also innovation companies. We are therefore pleased that the Government has followed up the budget decisions of the Grand Duchy last autumn and are now giving priority to more adapted jobs in the context of the revised budgetary procedure. However, the Christian People's Party is concerned that these measures do not always benefit the users they intended. In meetings with representatives of VTA companies and labour market enterprises, the Municipal Committee has been informed that Aetat does not give priority to setting up new sites in line with the request made by the Stortinget. Reasons for rejecting the increase in new VTA sites include: the share of institutional measures becomes too high. This happens in a situation of long waiting lists. The Christian People's Party is not opposed to the further development and adaptation of these special measures, but we believe that it must do so within the framework given, not by the fact that they are deprived by Aetat for the benefit of others. If this were to be a true description of reality, we would challenge the Minister of Labour and Administration to settle these matters as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e354	Increased focus is positive on the large groups that are excluded from value creation. The labour force is the greatest source of wealth in society, and the long-term announcement by the government of Stoltenberg estimated that the value was 14 times higher than the oil wealth. After several questions to the Government, we have been surveyed that 300,000–400,000 annual works represent the labour force reserve today, which corresponds to twice the oil wealth. It's pointless waste, as Victor Norman once said. The reserve is found among seniors, immigrants, disabled persons, part-time workers and insured persons. In each of these groups, the reserve increases, and for each of the groups, special measures are needed and possible. These also have to be seen in context. Therefore, at the time of the last budgetary procedure, the Centre Party promoted a proposal requiring the Government to provide in each national budget an overall overview of its labour reserves and of measures that could help all to become labour force participants on the basis of their own assumptions. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party did not vote for that proposal, but that is the question of the interpellation today. Not everything the government does, it helps those who want to create new businesses and jobs, to say it carefully. Most of the innovation takes place in established enterprises. They ask for stable conditions, for example: in the case of interest rates and interest rates. It hasn't been like that. They ask for yes to applications for support for innovation, and there has been a more recent refusal. They want more for road investment, but there has also been a wrong path. Innovation companies are largely personal owned and, as a group, they say about the new tax reform: we are going to be very bad. Revised national budget, which was presented two days ago, means less money for innovation, roads and Aetat, which can then give action places to fewer of the usual unemployed. Argentum, which was established in 2000 with DKK 2.5 billion from the state to ownership of new knowledge businesses, made its annual report here by day. The money is almost untracked in Norway in 2004, and this may be because the return requirements are 10 pst. over risk-free interest rates. 400 million. kr is located in a foreign company that says they are not obliged to invest one penny in Norway. There is also a lot of positive, many positive opportunities, not least to be able to refer to the many good examples and to the fact that young entrepreneurship has taken root seriously. But first of all, we need to focus on what can be better in the state's treatment of business. The State capital strength can be better used for the benefit of more jobs. We need to get better infrastructure, and we need to get a targeted business policy and tax policy to make cake bigger. We need to see the different policy areas in context, so that we get more innovation and allow more people to participate in value creation, which we clearly agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e367	First, I want to give tribute to the interpellant Olaf Gedrem, who has taken up the employment opportunities and opportunities for important groups in Norway. Looking at unemployment rates, both disabled people and immigrants are groups that have difficulty entering the labour market. The newly educated academics also have a problem, but perhaps of a somewhat different nature than the two aforementioned groups. If the so-called increased investment in innovation can solve this, I'm somewhat uncertain about, but I'm going to be positive, and I think there's also opportunities there. There are insufficient human resources available in all groups. The challenge is just to give these possibilities. Then there must be economic incentives. I feel it so that the government is very busy with innovation, and that's good. It is also concerned about creating new jobs and products. However, the contributions to Innovation Norway should not be cut, as proposed in the revised national budget. They need all the money that it is possible to generate for such a good project. Labour market measures are also important for these groups, so that they can prepare to re-enter the labour market. Innovation and inspiring self-employment should also be an important tool here. In my home municipality, Asker, there is a meeting place where the unemployed can get help and inspiration to start their own businesses, an inspiring environment, financial help and help to get over the knee, starting yourself. Maybe one also finds new associates in those places. We've seen the possibility of that. The interpellant took up young entrepreneurship. I have had the opportunity to sit on several occasions in the jury at some of these events, mainly in Akershus, but this year I was in one of the jurys at the Norwegian Championship. Unbelievable fun! The parent of young people who meets in these companies is to be looked for a long time. But they must be followed up! They start a business, they run it for a whole year, and then they wind it up. Then they must be followed up, so that they have opportunities when they are going to start up for themselves. Someone has to take hold of them, because there are as many resources that we can enjoy in the future. Good employers who give room for creative employees to think and develop are important. Pleasure to go to work, I think, is the best cure for illness, at least against the mental disorders. Not everyone is doing it. It's not everyone who has it as funny as us, who in most cases delights us to go to work. Olaf Gedrem and I have a passion together, physical activity, and I agree with Gedrem: if it can be possible for people to train during working hours, as we can do here at the Storting in the breaks, it will also help you get much better. Being in good shape and having a good mood also gives you the opportunity to create new businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e384	There is currently a lot of focus on innovation and creating new jobs and businesses, so that we become competitive in the longer term. At the same time, we have a working life characterized by the exclusion of important groups, such as newly educated academics, disabled persons and immigrants. At the same time, the number of disabled persons is increasing. What kind of instruments can we then use to link the available human resources more closely to the need for innovation? Every year, Dagbladet gathers a jury to find the most powerful women in Norway. One who always stands on that list is trade union leader Gerd-Liv Valla. I find it sad that Norway's most powerful woman is at the same time the country's largest brake block for innovation. I want to praise the representative Gedrem from the Christian People's Party to focus on how important innovation is to get more people to work. The best thing to do, in my opinion, is to get Gerd-Liv Valla to understand how important a change is to get an innovative business. There are many levels to be kept out of work. Many women feel they are being kept out of important jobs in Norwegian business. This is a very relevant question in relation to the representative Mr Gedrem raised. We need a business with a greater capacity for innovation. Women will not contribute to it because they are women, but because they are capable and often more creative than what men are. We in the Right will support those who provide jobs and build future Norway. We as politicians must facilitate entrepreneurship, and we must facilitate business start-ups. But we also have to facilitate the groups that are being kept out today, so that they also have the opportunity to join in and create. If we are to have an innovative business, we must also exploit the skills women have. Then we also need other powerful women than the trade union leader Gerd-Liv Valla.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e401	It is in many ways a complex and extensive interpellant that the interpellant travels today. But the government, at least according to them, came last year with a vision called «From idea to value». Now recently, the government came up with a new vision, which went on the education system. The education system was to be made the best in the world in terms of innovation and innovation, and in terms of student enterprises and youth. But what about the main challenge? What happens when young people come out of education and go out into business? What system, then, do they meet, those who are going to practise the founding plant, the entrepreneurship? Well, they're meeting a tax regime, a concession system and an instrument that really, in many contexts, is blocking entrepreneurship and not promoting it. I think that one of the most important things in the future will be to do the opposite, to start by promoting entrepreneurship, by getting an organized system that stimulates entrepreneurs and other business operators out in the whole country. Another major problem we look out in the districts, where the concession terms are involved and prevent innovation. We have a lot of natural resources that could have been used, as many entrepreneurs, many with good thoughts and young people want to use, but they meet a system that's locked up and that doesn't allow them to grasp the value creation and use the skills they hold. Let me also touch some other areas. I am very pleased that the mandatory introduction programme has come into place. It shall be pleasant to follow it until the harvest. The Progress Party has been calling for this for almost 20 years. 1983 was the first time we promoted these thoughts. That's why it's very happy that we're going to do it, and instead of criticising that nothing has happened before, I guess you're going to lean on the old saying that it's better late than never. I also want to focus a little on the disabled. There are many young people with disabilities, and I myself have met some of those who want to get into work, who want to be included in business, but who are not included because you are not able to organize well enough for them. But maybe the biggest challenge lies with us, in the government, the state, when you see that it only has 0.7 pst. disabled staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e418	First, I just want to ask the Council of State to pay close attention to what the representative Ivar Østberg said about the VTA companies and Aeta's disposals. It's very important to clarify it. There was something very pleasing in the Council's answer, and it was that he said that now the state should start going ahead when it comes to inclusive working life. It's about time, because the government hasn't been good at all. In new positions, the state is not even good at employing its own people who are becoming overwhelming if they are over 50 years old. The state is poor at recruiting immigrants. The state is poor at recruiting people with disabilities. I also believe that the state is poor when they operate their conversion processes, because in such processes they create a lot of stress, a lot of sickness and exclusion. I am delighted to continue with this. Here is a whole new policy if the Council of State is to follow up what he has said today. SV has been very concerned about the school, precisely because we know how important it is that the school takes care of all the talents and abilities, and cultivates them, so that everyone can stand up. It strengthens society. It strengthens the individual, and it strengthens the business community. Some of us have worked hard for a long time with establishing education, and I want to give the Council an idea: Why not create a special institutional education for immigrants? When they come, they have more culture than us to start their own business. But we can't meet them at this. A lot of people start, and a lot of people do things in the process that's not really going to be right. Then it goes wrong, and then it becomes a criminal case, and then it just becomes misery – what could be a legitimate and good business. For example, in order to ensure that graduates do not become unemployed. pursue a stronger counter-cyclical policy than what we are doing today. Newly trained IT consultants and teachers, e.g., are well used in Norwegian schools. It makes no sense for municipalities to sit and cut down on positions in a period when people go unemployed, and we know that the school needs these teachers. There's also an idea that I think you should think a little bit more about than what you've done now. Then SV and I belong to those who don't think you're particularly creative by being insecure and worn out – and be it all the time. Unfortunately, this is the case in part of the private business community today, and that is the case in a lot of the public sector. SV is very aware that business is under pressure from international economic trends. We have to work on that in an international cooperation. We need standards to keep people healthy, because it's naive to think that getting more disabled people into work can combine with a one-sided focus on more competition, short-term saving and earnings, short-term efficiency. It can't be done. If we want people with health problems to be at work, we also have to accept that they can't deliver 100 pst. all the time, and that they're sick sometimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e433	I would just like to thank you for your active participation in a debate with a theme that is important to many. It will mean much to social development that we have general attention and pressure on this area that will otherwise meet again in many facets, in many contexts when it comes to regulatory changes and budgetary management here in the Storting. I feel it's a lot in time to suggest that we're in a shift of mood with an increased focus on what these questions and the many contexts mean, and there's an increasing cross-political will to bet on a broad front to achieve a good result for society and the standard of living for the individual. There are two or three themes I would like to address before the Council of State keeps its last article. I feel that the marking made by the Government that it is necessary to secure R & D work access to business is very correct. It is right that it should be intensified, so that the research environment becomes more open and the results that can be commercialised are made more accessible to business and the necessary jobs. The deployment of knowledge spares and business parks should be accelerated. I would also ask the Council of State to consider what can be done with the bankruptcy framework of business leaders and businesses to ensure that one can benefit from the created and the important experience they often have, instead of ruining over a long waiting period – whether there are quarantines or other schemes that keep them out of a natural place in business. I also want to ask that it be focused on unnecessary obstacles. I know it's a government theme that both municipalities and the public can change arrangements and remove unnecessary obstacles that will prevent the individual from realizing his visions and dreams. Finally, I would like the Council of State to close down. I see the Council of State as a conductor of a broad corps of good, cooperating forces to create an inclusive and expanding working life and to secure society's well-being and individual security and a good standard of living.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e448	Better use of research-based knowledge is important to boost innovation. That is why the Government has also made a great effort to develop knowledge parks and commercial parks. We are currently working on a further development of the concept called the Center of Experty, where the maritime business environment in Ålesund, together with the Ålesund University, was given the first status last year. This is an example of how, through targeted work, we want a knowledge-based business development – we want to link research environments and educational institutions with capital, with business and with the good public tools, so that we get more benefit from all the knowledge that comes out of the research institutions. I'm also concerned that going bankrupt doesn't have to be a shame. It's a shame only if you've done something illegal along the way, on the way to bankruptcy. But to bet, dry to spend your own money and tape – it must not in any way be a shame, and there must be room to get up again. We need all the knowledge that humans have, which on the first attempt doesn't succeed. I am also concerned, like several representatives, that business simplification is an important contribution to boosting innovation. It also contributes to the government. In this way, I would like to highlight in particular the comprehensive AltInn project, which helps to reduce the reporting burden on business, it simplifies. We save time and free resources to create and thus avoid new leisure. There is coherence in the government's economic policy. In fact, creating space for a more profitable value-creating private sector is a bottom ground for employing more teachers. This is why economic policy has led the government over the last three years, which is now producing results, is the best starting point for strengthening the welfare of children and young people, and the best starting point for strengthening the well-being of older caregivers. We do not fail the unemployed – our policies deliver results. The competitiveness of Norwegian industry is strengthened. The bottom is reached, and we see a cautious, dawning optimism. In the last two months, we have seen a weak improvement in the labour market, and the best thing is that it grows in our competitive industries. Now there is growth in the number of jobs in industry, construction and construction, and this is the very best example of the functioning of government policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e461	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e467	We're going to vote on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e474	In the course of the debate, 13 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-9, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party, 10-12, by Mr Inger S. Enger, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 13, by Brother Yngve Rahm on behalf of the Workers' Party, Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals Nos. 1-12 is included in the vote, while proposal No. 13 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 10-12, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of up to 18 predatory game regions following the county boundaries. The members of regional wild game teams are appointed by the county on a general political basis. Poachers are empowered to manage the populations of gaupe, yerv, bear and wolf within their region.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The cost of the predatory game policy is still covered by the Ministry of the Environment's budget.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘There shall be no breeding wolf in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e515	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-9, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «Animal protection subjects shall be empowered to require the removal of pests where this is the most appropriate solution for the prevention of trachea.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment by the Government of nationally elected wild game subjects that manage predators within national targets. The decisions taken by wild game learners should be final as long as the withdrawals take place within the national targets.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue today’s compensation scheme for losses on sheep and clean due to predatory game.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The national stock targets for gaupe, york and bear are set at:– Gaupe: 40 annual youngsters– Jerv: 20 annual youngsters– Bjørn: 2-5 annual youngstersIt also opens for the hunting and harvesting of pests before the stock targets are reached.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the withdrawal of the royal eagle in areas of the country where there are mountain reefs.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to carry out an independent investigation into the impact of the presence of large predators on the quality of life of its inhabitants,– the economic impact on individuals, industries and communities. The investigation is carried out by an independent body and the results must have an impact on the management and design of the predatory game policy. The results will be submitted to the Stortinget since the 2006 state budget.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The right of appeal shall be extended to dogs as well.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend Section 11 of the Game Act so that game can be shared regardless of conservation, when killing must be considered required to remove a current and significant risk of injury to a person and under threat of direct attack on buff and tamrein. Folding must be reported immediately to the wild.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the following compensation schemes:– annual compensation for renting pastures that can no longer be used– annual compensation for renting hunting rights– compensation to municipalities for adverse effects economic, social, cultural and for additional expenditure related to predatory game management– stimulation of alternative economic developmentThe evaluations are submitted to the Stortinget since the draft State budget for 2005.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e697	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e711	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party, Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size suggests that the measures referred to by the settlement partners in the setting of the robberies message are entered under the Ministry of the Environment’. The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e731	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Authorisation of snowmobiles in special loops is generally granted to municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e755	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. One from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law on Motor Traffic in Lands and Waterways, so that the authority granted by law is transferred from the county to the individual municipality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e778	During the debate, Mr Lund has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take into account the practice of the motorcycling legislation in the field in order to grant exemptions for organised day trips with retired snowmobiles under conditions that ensure that environmental damage does not occur.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on. The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:36 [[2003-2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e804	During the debate, Hans Kristian Hogsnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2004 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Crones1500Ministry of Labour and Administration21Special operating expenditure, increased by 800 00070 Contributions to the Pioneer Divers, allocated by 9 200000» [[New]] Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2004-05-13-2.ana.ud1851e927	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
